I’m an advocate of early marriage — Olanbiwoninu, Chair, Insurance Group, LCCI
Mr Gboyega Olanbiwoninu, Chairman, Insurance Group, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Head, Business Development, Scib Nigeria and Company Limited, shares his fatherhood experience with SIMON UTEBOR

How would you describe fatherhood?

For me, fatherhood is synonymous with responsibility. In other words, it involves having moral, financial and social responsibilities to your children – both biological and spiritual children.

Oftentimes I tell the youths in my church, Winners Chapel, Ibadan, where I am privileged to be the Pastor in charge of the teens’ church at a time. I said to them, “Fatherhood is not Nollywood or Hollywood but rather a call for utmost responsibility and accountability.”

When did you become a father?

I became a father at the age of 30.

Would you say you got married at the right time?

Yes, I have always been an advocate of early marriage. I have an insight and revelation into God’s vision for my life and marriage early in life at about age 12. And when I met my wife 11 years later at the University of Agriculture, Abeokuta in 1991, I heard the Lord saying to me, ‘‘Gboyega that is your wife.” And I asked who? And the Lord mentioned her name. And the Lord reminded me of a prayer I prayed as a little lad whilst at Federal Government College, Odogbolu, Ogun State and revelation thereon vis-a-vis my marital destiny. So, I believe I got married at God’s ordained time for my life. For He makes all things beautiful in His time and when you follow His time, you enjoy His unending turnaround blessings in life and destiny.

What fear did you entertain before becoming a father?

First of all, let me say that I am an incurable optimist and my faith in the validity of God’s word rendered every seemingly fear in becoming a father null and void. A man of faith fears no fear. And may I also add that I did not walk into fatherhood overnight; it was a product of vision coupled with great preparation.

I have this understanding from the Book of life that the preparation of the heart is in man and the answer of the tongue is from God- Proverbs 16 verse 1. On this scriptural injunction, my wife and I engaged the throne of Grace as per the gender and birthdays. And we have them as desired. Therefore, fear has no place in my journey towards fatherhood.

As an insurance practitioner, how are you able to manage your duties and obligations as a father?

Again, it is by preparation. Several years ago, the Lord said to me that preparation is the mother of precipitation. What you don’t plan for you don’t possess. So, I structured my time and set priorities and boundaries as per the two key deliverables. And God is faithful.

During the birth of any of your children, did you accompany your wife to the labour room?

I followed her to the room before the labour room. That is the labour room of prayers. For the word says shall I bring to birth and not cause to bring forth, shall I bring forth and shut the womb?

Meanwhile, whilst I was not physically present at the hospital labour room, I did not miss the labour room of prayers.

How do you discipline your children when they do anything wrong?

I carry out correction via the word of God. For the scripture says correct thy son and he shall give you rest, he shall give delight to your soul.

Again, my wife and I spend time training them in the ways of the Lord. In other words, we act proactively. For the word says train up a child in the way of the Lord and when he is old he will not depart from it.

What has your experience as a father taught you?

That God has bestowed on me the responsibility to nurture, cultivate, care and cherish unique individual with specific purpose on planet earth. I live with this consciousness.

What are the values you learnt from your own father that is helping you in parenting?

The values learnt from my own father that are helping me in parenting are forthrightness, integrity, prayers, bonding, setting goals and quarterly appraisal of same as well as celebrating successes and wins.

How would you describe the state of insurance industry and would you want any of your children to take a profession in the insurance?

The current state of Insurance in Nigeria is abysmally low with a contribution of about 0.4 per cent to Gross Domestic Product and penetration level of about 0.6 per cent. And many factors can be attributed to this low performance, including non-enforcement of the laws by the government, inadequate awareness, among others. For example, there are about 12 million vehicles on the Nigerian roads and only about three million are currently insured. In other words, out of every 10 vehicles on the road only two are insured. This is an anathema. In other words, it is an abomination in developed countries. And government has all the apparatuses required for this enforcement.

Currently, the industry and the insurance sector of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry are working assiduously with various government agencies to ensure that this albatross is converted to streams of opportunities and income to the industry.

And whether I want any of my children, both biological and spiritual to take a profession in Insurance, the answer is yes despite all the shortcomings in its operation at present.

What is the relationship between you and your family like?

Our relationship can best be described as wonderful, pleasant and fantastic.

Have you received any cherished gifts from your children?

Yes. We exchanged gifts regularly. Gift sharing and celebration of success are intrinsic part of our family.

When you have disagreements with your wife, how do you resolve it?

The first thing is this: please note that disagreement can be avoided. The scripture says that by understanding a house is built and through wisdom it is established. So, we have an understanding of our idiosyncrasies and when it appears the spirit of disagreement wants to raise its ugly head, the other party wears the cap of humility and patience and together we bring a sense of humour to the situation. In this case, there is no vanquished and no victor. It is a win-win situation.

Do you usually involve third party in the resolution of such disagreements?

No. Never! We don’t involve third party in our disagreements. We resolve them ourselves.

How do you celebrate your children when they make you proud?

First of all, we have this understanding from scriptures that no man has the capacity to make anything happen; all things are made by Him and for Him. So, we have a custom which is, we thank God in a dance, songs and celebrate with a family dinner. And this is followed with a reward. We have calibration for rewards.

How do you bond with your children?

I bond with my children through structured family retreats and travelling.

How are your children faring now?

Our marriage is blessed with three children – Oluwafikayomi, Oluwafoyinsolami and Oluwafarayiolami. And like I mentioned earlier, having the consciousness that every child has a specific purpose from God, I made enquiries from God as per their specific purpose on earth before they were conceived. So, we (my wife, Afolake and I) have been a guide and compass to them having been privileged to have insight into their ordained assignments in life.

And to God alone be all the glory, all our children are following God’s trajectory as He decreed and declared before they were conceived. And same testimonies apply to all our spiritual sons and daughters and grandchildren spread across the nations of the earth.

What advice do you have for young couples?

To follow what I described as the ‘Love Triangle creed’. Having God at the top of the triangle. For the scripture says, “Seek ye first the kingdom of God and its righteousness and all these other things shall be added unto you.” In other words, those who seek God first cannot lack gold (wealth, health and vitality).

What advice do you have for youths who intend to go into marital life?

That marriage is an institution founded by God and for God. In other words, God is the manufacturer of marriage and every manufacturer has a manual for his product. God’s instruction for marriage can be found in His book. And everyone going into marriage should locate God’s provision for their homes.

For example, before entering into marriage, I read about the five-fold blessings as declared by God in creation. He said to me, be fruitful, multiply, replenish, subdue and have dominion. And I also located His word that says whosoever finds a wife finds a good thing and obtains favour from God. These two words were the foundation and pillar of our home.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]