Would you use a nanny or crèche for your baby care?
TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN examines the merits and demerits of a nanny and a crèche in the care of infants and toddlers

For every working mother, there will always be a time to choose between the protection under a nanny at home or keeping the baby in the company of other toddlers in a crèche. To many, it is the ultimate choice and it is inescapable for every mother. So when Mrs Ayo Alao gave birth to her baby girl, her joy was punctuated intermittently by the thought of what awaited her after the end of her maternity leave.

At a point, however, she banished the thought and waited patiently for the time. So, during her maternity period, she held her bundle of joy to her chest with her husband sitting beside them smiling heartily. She kept thanking God for this great wonder. It was a beautiful sight to behold as family members, friends as well wishers kept trooping in to congratulate the new mum. The atmosphere was full of joy as it was her first child and a very beautiful one at that. But reality soon came. Having being on maternity leave for the past two months, Mrs Alao told SUNDAY PUNCH that she had to face her fears shortly before the expiration of her leave. Yet, she resolved to give her child, Toluwani, the best child care.

The major source of worry was the fact that her mother who had visited immediately she put to bed had returned home to take care of her husband. Of course she would have taken charge in her absence but Mama was gone. “I don’t have any relative with me and I will soon be resuming back to work,” she told our correspondent.

“I am very scared especially with the common news of abuse of children both at day care centres and even in the hands of ungodly nannies. One cannot be too careful when it comes to taking care of one’s child. This is my first and the economic situation of the country can’t make me sit back at home,” she revealed.

Like Mrs Alao, parents especially the new ones are usually confronted with the emotional and psychological trauma of who should take care of their babies in their absence. Due to these uncertainties, those who do not have family members around them are usually unsure whether to use a nanny or a crèche. Eventually, they would decide on one, depending on their pocket and other realities.

A doctor and father of one, Dr. Ebun Jolaoso, said he preferred a nanny but the economic situation of the country made it difficult for one to easily afford such.

According to him, “I would prefer a nanny though using a crèche is relatively cheaper. Nannies usually cost significantly more than day care centres. The cost of a nanny varies depending on location, the number of kids, and other factors.”

From her point of view, Mrs Aduragbemi Oni, an engineer and a working mother said both systems had their advantages and disadvantages but she would rather use a nanny especially if she was able to get a good one.

“Using a crèche or nanny has advantages and disadvantages. If one is able to find a good nanny, a security system and activities for the child’s development to keep the child busy, I would pick that over a crèche anytime. The advantages are numerous.

“A nanny is focused on your child’s individual needs. There is no competition for attention and the nanny can solely concentrate on your child’s development.”

On her part, a communication expert and a mother of one, Mrs Ife Adeolu, told our correspondent that she started by using a crèche and it had paid off handsomely for her. She explained that once a person got the right crèche it had its numerous advantages, too.

“When my son was little and I had to go back to work, I had to put him in a crèche. I looked around and did a solid research before settling for the school. It’s that same school he attends now though. The women were kind, the older women reminded me of my growing up, grandmas and everything I looked for in a support system.

“He started there at three months and I would pick him on my way home. Even the environment was serene. They had no more than 12 kids I guess, four nannies and two rotational staff and a cleaner. They had CCTV that one could access from anywhere. The older women were comfortable to be around. The other nannies were responsible as well and made wise decisions.

“He’s in nursery now, so I have a live-in nanny. She had worked in a day care and with solid referrals, I employed her to take care of my son. So when I travel, go to work or to school, I don’t have to worry much. Although she’s never ever alone with him, If I have to leave town, my mother-in-law comes to Lagos to be like a check and balance. If my mother-in-law can’t make it, one of us must be on the ground, my husband, my niece or sister-in-law.

“It’s wise to have a support system that works and that you can trust to an extent because truth be told, how many places can one be, all at once?

“I was brought up to never totally trust anyone especially these changing times with all sorts of perversion. I guess this has worked for me so far. It’s not as it was when we were growing up. We had tons and buckets of aunts and uncles living at our house. Everyone was a part of the support system and a career. Now you have to be sure that no one is secretly abusing your kid hence you need 10 eyes, hands, super power and the absolute grace of God because all these only work because God’s hands are in it,” she said.

A fashion designer and a teacher, Mrs Carol Frank, told SUNDAY PUNCH that she preferred daytime nanny; an older woman with her own children. The advantage is that the baby grows up in a home environment and eats good food although a nanny is more expensive.

According to her, “Crèche is less expensive but it is not a home environment, sometimes care is not up to standard, baby picks up never ending colds and infections from other children since their immune system is not yet well developed. A baby is likely to be abused in small ways, especially if the baby is the type that cries a lot. Caregivers at the day care centres give care to many children and may not have the patience to make sure your baby feeds well. I know of one caregiver who used to go to the crèche with her own twins with no food. She would feed her twins first with the food brought by other parents. Some of the babies who are poor feeders never eat at all.”

She emphasized that although she preferred a nanny, she would prefer an elderly woman as the young ones usually did not have the patience required in taking care of an infant or toddler.

She said, “Some nannies are unfaithful with your baby especially if you go for young ‘slay queens’, who want to have boyfriends in the neighbourhood. I urge all parents who are working far away from the home to install small cameras in the home everywhere from outside to the bedroom.”

Highlighting why she doesn’t like using day care facilities, she said, “I don’t like those day-care facilities especially if the baby is not toilet trained and excretes on him or herself. If there are many children handled by employees, it becomes easy for a quiet baby to be overlooked. Those employees don’t like changing diapers with poop, so some slap children.

A young dad, Mr Emeka Ilo, said he would prefer a crèche because he felt that his child would be safer under public watch and then the child would learn how to socialise early enough.

He said, “I would prefer a crèche because I know my baby would be safe and be under the public watch. Also, in the case of abuse, it is easier to hold the people responsible and it would be detected early enough. A nanny can abuse your child without you finding out.

“Once you are able to get a good crèche, there are so many advantages to it. For instance, day care provides the benefit of socialisation where kids can learn and grow with other children. Children are stimulated by other kids and develop social skills through their daily experiences in day care. Most day care centers offer a wide variety of toys, books, games and play equipment. Day care provides opportunities for creative play with art supplies, educational games, dress-up outfits, and building blocks. Some day care centres also bring in people for extra activities, such as music and the rest.”

Commenting on the issue, an Education Psychologist, Dr. Morayo Jimoh, said that using a crèche was more beneficial to the mental development of the child especially when one was sure that the child is handled by skilled care givers.

She said, “I will say a crèche is better especially when one gets a good one. In a crèche that has skilled hands in training the kids they are able to train the children. While the problem with nannies is the fact that they are not trained and most of them learn on the job and they necessarily don’t have the skill required in raising infants and toddlers. Some of them even also function as a home help.”

Family corner

(8053658244 (sms onlhy)

Dear ma, I am 17 years and I have completed secondary school. I dated a boy when I was in SS2. But few months ago he said he was no longer interested in the relationship. I asked him why and he said he just wanted to be free. Right now, I am dating another guy. But I find it hard to forget about my ex.

Please ma, what can I do?. Funmilayo.

Dear Funmilayo,

It’s important to focus your attention on your studies. At 17, you’ll soon see that boys can be a distraction and can remove your focus from the important things that will help you become great in life. If you really must date, please focus on the one you are currently with and detach yourself emotionally from the ex. I know it’s difficult and it takes time, but in order not to sabotage your current relationship, you need to move on.

Dear ma, in my class, a fight ensued between a boy and me. Since then we have not been on talking terms. I am getting tired of keeping malice with him. I do not want to beg him either because he was the one that offended me. What should I do? Anonymous

Talk to your class teacher. He or she should be able to help handle the issue maturely without affecting you in the future. If he is the one that is at fault and decides not to apologise, he may do it again if you go to him. You deserve an apology, so let the teacher handle it.

Dear ma, I am 13 years old. There is a guy who likes me and I like him too. He loves me but I feel shy talking to him. What should I do? Anonymous

Dear Anonymous,

At age 13, it is too early to think about a boy liking you and you liking him. There’s so much time for that. Focus on your studies. Also, you can talk to an adult that you trust and let them guide you through your current phase.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]