Right age to start living alone
TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN writes on the perfect age a child should leave the parents’ house to start living alone

Though a child who is 18 is not a minor in Nigeria, it doesn’t confer liberty on the child to choose to live alone.

There are still some guidance and decisions which parents make on behalf of the child. Besides, parents have different views on the appropriate age to allow their children to leave their homes and start living alone.

A married woman, Mary Shola, believed a female child should remain with her parent until marriage while the male child could leave after securing a job.

She said, “As a parent, I don’t see any reason why a child should leave his or her parents’ house except for a legitimate reason like marriage or job.

“If you are a female, you can leave your parents’ house when you get married. If you are a male when you get a job. If you work in the same city where your parents live, you can still live with them if it’s not too far from your office. It’ll save you money on rent. However, you should contribute by way of offsetting electricity bills and feeding. Doing this will teach you money management and show that you appreciate your parents in your adult life.”

On his part, Mr Bernedicta Ayuba, said a child should be allowed to move out of their parent’s house if the child was ready to take responsibility.

He stated, “A child should move out of the house when that child considers him or herself an adult and ready to take responsibility.”

A fresh graduate, Olumide Ishola, was of the opinion that parents shouldn’t allow their kids to start living alone until they attain age 25 or 29 because by then they would be able to handle issues of life.

He said, “Once a man is 25, he should move out of his parents’ house. Maturity is important to live alone but from 25 years to 29, a child should leave the parent’s house. This will allow them a level of independence required to make tangible decisions about life. It can be when they are 25, 27 or 29. Though some men become independent at age 23, I don’t think it’s advisable to let them live alone because they may not be mature enough. While a woman, on the other hand, should stay in her father’s house until she gets married.”

For Patriciah Oleh, men should leave their parents’ house at age 30 and a woman should do so after marriage.

She stated, “Men should leave their parents’ house by the time they are 30 because, at that age, they should be wise and strong enough to face any challenge. For women, they are expected to leave their parents’ house when they are ready to marry except in a situation where the woman’s place of work is far from her parents’ house.”

A businessman, Mr Frank Umuze, said age 33 should be ideal for a man to leave his parents’ house, adding that the economic situation in the country was making people stay longer than necessary in their parents’ home.

He said, “I feel a woman should not quit her parents’ home until her marriage rites are to be performed. But a man can leave them when he is 33.’’

On his part, a lawyer, Mr Opeyemi Oladiti, advocated age 30 for both gender to quit their parents home and start their lives.

He added, “There is no hard and fast rule about it. As long as you are not overbearing, please stay there. Don’t let society kill you with what is not. But then, realistically, by the time one is 30, one should be ready to leave one’s parents’ house.

“Basically, life catches up with you at some point, and independence becomes a priority, not only because we are guys, but because that is the fastest way to grow. It then becomes important for one to find one’s way and not stay with one’s parents which may actually stunt your growth especially when one is 30.”

An educationist, Mrs Betty Banjo, had a different view. The grandmother said a child should remain in their parent’s house until he or she was financially and psychologically ready.

She said, “I am not keen about what age any of my children should leave my house. What I am concerned about is the sanity of such a child. If you put pressure on a child who is not financially stable to live alone, it is going to be a heavy burden on him or her to meet financial demands. It takes a lot of stability to stay alone. I will only say a child should be allowed to stay alone once he or she is financially and psychologically ready.”

Commenting on the matter, a sociologist, Prof. Olurode Olayiwola, said there was no rule on the appropriate age a child should leave their parents’ house, noting that it was only culturally bound.

He said, “I feel what is important is that parents are part of the children’s lifespan. Young children are born into families and they mature; what I mean by mature is they start their own families. Upon marriage, they grow away from their parents’ surveillance because he or she is no longer a child but an adult.

“It can happen that a female can marry and the husband stays in his father in-law’s house. This is not impossible because the husband of one’s daughter is one’s own child too. Even though they are old enough, it is a matter of economic situation depending on whether they get a job or they want to live alone. Don’t forget that we are in transition from the communal system where we all live and eat together. That is why I said there are no rules.”

He stated that sometimes, some children in advanced countries looked forward to 18 so that they could be alone.

Olayiwola said, “My son has his own apartment in my house although he pays at a subsidised price. But the thing today is that people are not earning a lot to be comfortable living on their own and still be able to save to get their own house. The care of the child is a task that the parents undertake from morning till the evening of their death. Parenting doesn’t end because of the age of one’s kids or based on their good earnings. It’s a lifetime commitment.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]