My wife, children love to hear my jokes — Ugwummadu
Malachy Ugwummadu is the National President of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights and a human rights lawyer. He shares his experience as a father with ALEXANDER OKERE

How would you define fatherhood?

Fatherhood is that stage in the life of a young man commencing soon after marriage or cohabitation till death and characterised by the burden of responsibilities and the corresponding joy of success in the discharge of those responsibilities to his wife, children and other dependants. Fatherhood is, therefore, a measure of the responsibility a man owes his wife or partner and the children that were brought forth into this world.

When did you become a father?

I formally became a father to my wife on October 10, 2005, and to my extended family on July 17, 2006, when my first child, who is now 13 years old, was born. I was 34 years old (at the time).

Where were you when you had your first child?

I was right there in the hospital with my lovely wife, though by the strict policy of the hospital in question, I was not allowed into the labour room even if I desired and sought to be there.

How did you choose the names of your kids?

Their names were inspired by God but largely defined by the circumstances of their births and what they meant and represented to us. If you understand the Igbo language very well, you will know that there could not have been a more suitable name for my daughter other than Adaeze (Daughter of a king). Yoruba epistemology also holds the view that, generally, the first female child brings joy, comfort and stress-free fortune to the family. You can see where Ayomide (My joy has come) came from. I also nicknamed her Madiba because she was born just a day after the birthday of the legendary Nelson Mandela (Madiba) of South Africa.

What are the names and ages of your other children?

They are Ikenna Olatayo Ugwummadu, aged 11; and Isioma Mojolaoluwa Ugwummadu, aged three.

What’s your most memorable experience as a father?

My children’s respective birthdays are extremely memorable to me. I also cherish the few moments when I am able to spend time with them, share and identify with their world, talk and listen to their viewpoints about life and, generally, watch them grow from childhood to adolescence. It’s, however, seldom with me, in view of my crowded schedule.

What has the experience taught you?

It has taught me to be more attentive and take life easy with an added sense of responsibility to guide, provide and protect them.

What has fatherhood changed about you?

I am much more resolved to succeed, knowing that it is no longer a lone race. I have become much more circumspect in decision-making, knowing that whatever decision I take now affects more people. You can never imagine everything about children until you bond with them. They bring you into their own world and express that curiosity about your world as an adult. In that process, you foster a better understanding of coexistence. The greater dividends of such deliberate interactions are not only to bond but to also grow in confidence and navigate complex situations.

How has fatherhood affected your profession?

My wife and I are legal practitioners and are actively involved in the affairs of the Malachy Ugwummadu’s Chambers, otherwise known as the Liberty Place. We are both passionate about child’s rights. We stand firmly against violence against children. We do not trivialise issues concerning child education, child labour and child molestation. Above all, we have now learnt to deal creatively with the all-important factor of time more seriously because it has truly become a scarce commodity with us as we regularly share it with other competing demands. The foregoing areas of interests and excitements also have their flipsides which we have managed within the limits of our resources, knowledge and powers

What gives you fulfilment as a father?

Being able to fulfil my numerous obligations to my family and guide them to a productive objective gives me satisfaction.

What values did you learn from your father and now teaching your children?

My father taught me to have a firm life of discipline, contentment, courage, industry, independence, selflessness and general respect for fellow humans

How do you discipline your children?

We revisit and reappraise their misconduct to enable me to understand why they behaved the way they did and then I make the correction. I also deny them some of the privileges they look forward to, including visiting my siblings abroad during holidays. In the same vein, I could be extravagant as a reward policy when they impress me and my wife.

How do you want your children to choose their careers?

I want them to focus on their known areas of interests and passion, where they have exhibited skills, talents, and relative and comparative edges.

What advice do you give your kids about relationships?

I tell them to be guided by the values we share and hold dear in our family and be regularly reminded that they will bear the direct consequences of their actions.

How do you relax with them?

Since they seldom see me, they like us to go away from the routine (social) activities. For instance, we just returned from the United States of America, where we spent a fortnight together. They like to experience new recreational activities; my daughter accompanies me to virtually all my media engagements. She met Noble Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, when she was very young. So basically, we do things outside our regular routines.

Also, I crack a lot of jokes with my kids but many people do not know that; they are always eager to hear from me. My wife and kids enjoy my sense of humour and our local folklore. We also discuss the books we have read; I use that to challenge them. It is not so much about relaxation but when we get bored about softer issues, I take them around that route.

What should aspiring fathers know about having children?

They should be prepared mentally, psychologically, spiritually and materially. It is a different ball game; once it is clear that you have become responsible for the well-being of other sets of persons, whose choices it wasn’t to come into this world, you take full responsibility. They should not be too scared about it. It (marriage) is an institution that is blessed by God and it should be taken one step at a time with a full dose of patience to improve yourself and your children for a better society.Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]