As a lawyer, I can’t defend rapists –Oshoma
Lawyer and social commentator, Liborous Oshoma, tells ALEXANDER OKERE in this interview how becoming a father has affected his life and career

What does fatherhood mean to you?

My idea of fatherhood is different from the traditional one. Like I tell people, it takes more than impregnating a woman to be a father; it is more than just giving money and paying school fees. So, my idea of fatherhood is an example of someone worthy of emulation. My children should be able to see me as their first role model. I should be their first Sunday school teacher; I should be their first moral compass, apart from providing for them.

At what age did you become a father?

I became a father at the age of 34. With the experience I gathered, I felt that I should have started earlier. Even though some people said that considering the Nigerian factor, it was okay for me at that age. But for me, I started (fatherhood) very late, knowing the joy that children bring and the bond that I had with my (first) son when he was born. I was not one of those that were scared to carry babies; I changed diapers and cleaned him. With the joy that he gave me, I told myself that if only I had known, I probably would have started earlier. I was scared of financial responsibilities. But once you have your plans in place, all other things will follow.

I found out that I really didn’t need all the things I was looking forward to. All I needed were my love, care and attention.

What is your most memorable experience as a father?

The most memorable one was the first day I carried my own child. Imagine growing up as a young boy, stubborn of course, and then some people would tell you that you wouldn’t do well. In your life, you never thought that you could do anything reasonable but you get married and beyond that, you get to the hospital one day and you are given a baby, your own baby – the joy is indescribable and that bond has always been there. I call my children ‘my guys’. We relate at that level, so they are free to open up to me. I can, through conversations, get to know their inner minds.

Where were you when you had your first child?

I was in the hospital, right from when my wife fell into labour. I took my wife to the hospital and, fortunately, my wife’s mother was with us. I was with her all through. People used to tease me then that it seemed like my wife and I were both pregnant. I read a pregnancy book with her on a day-to-day basis until delivery. At a time, I burnt my hand while trying to prepare water for her to bathe.

What has that experience taught you?

It has humbled me and made me not to undermine children, irrespective of their background. God gave my children to me the same way He gave me to my parents. That is why I feel so bad when I see children hawking on the streets. If it were possible, I would take all of them off the streets and put them in school, and let them have the feeling of being children. That is what the opportunity of being a father has taught me.

How did you choose the name of your first child?

My wife had always insisted that she wanted local names for her children. I thought my first child was going to be a girl because I loved the way little girls were adorned with ribbons in their hair and carried by their fathers. But when it turned out to be a boy, I said that God knew why it turned out that way. I have three boys and my wife gave them their local names. They are Amanesi (You don’t plan for God), Oshoke (It is God that gives) and Osiriame (God gave me). They are aged 14, 11 and eight, they are all doing well and I am proud as a father.

As a lawyer, do you think being a father has had an impact on your career?

There are some cases that I cannot handle. Imagine somebody coming to me to say that he raped somebody and wants me to defend him. As a father, I won’t be able to do that because the victim is somebody’s child.

How do cope with the challenges that come with having children?

Sometimes, I could be emotional about their whereabouts due to fear. But over time, I have learnt to tell myself that was how my parents used to be emotional. So when the challenges come, I tell myself to trust that which I have deposited in them and commit them into the hands of God. It is good to make a good name for yourself because that name will create a path for them. The first time my son left for a boarding house at the age of 10, I cried and did not want to let him go. But I told myself that a day would come when he would leave whether I liked it or not.

When I am not around, my wife stands in for me because she is self-employed and when I am available, I allow her to rest while I take care of the kids. Sometimes, I do the cooking. Being boys, they are closer to their mum than me. So, that takes off some pressure and allows me to concentrate on my job. I discovered that because I have given them the impression that I’m struggling and that money is not too available, I have been able to strike a balance between managing my work and providing for them.

What is your view about the preference for male children by some Nigerians?

It is misconceived because you will find out that, in some cases, the female children take care of their parents more than the male children. Many men want a male child to ensure their names do not die and we are so particular about the name that we forget about other attendant issues. A male child gets married to a woman who will be particular about her own family and will direct the man’s attention to her side. This is a girl child who has cornered a man to her father. She looks more towards her family than the man will look towards his family but it was the man that was celebrated earlier. God gave me boys and I want to bring them up to respect women.

What is your most memorable experience with your father?

Unfortunately, I think why I am closer to my children now is because I didn’t have that father figure. My father died in 1979 when I was less than eight years old. I lived with my uncle, who tried to be that father that we never had. He had so many of us living with him; his house was like a community house because he was an educationist. He treated all of us, including his biological children, equally and that taught me compassion.

But he hardly had time for us; there was no special treatment like taking us out. But the memorable experience was the fact that he could give his all to all of us.

What are the major things you learnt from your uncle that you are teaching your children?

He told me to remember the son of whom I am and to always know that he would not come for me when I was in trouble because I must learn to face it and conquer it. He also told me that a good name was better than riches. These shaped my life even while I was at the university when guys were troubling me to join a secret cult. I kept telling myself that if my uncle heard about it, he would not come to my aid and it would be shameful.

Those statements also gave me confidence that there was someone who believed in me. When I told him that I wanted to be a lawyer, he laughed and asked why. When I told him that it was because I wanted to help poor people, he laughed and told me that it was a good idea. He recommended books for me to read like ‘The Incorruptible Judge’ by Olu Olagoke and ‘Chike and the River’ by Chinua Achebe.

Are you also passing the same level of discipline on to your children?

My uncle was very strict but I have never used a cane on my children. He never spared the rod. I am not strict; I think my wife is stricter. I noticed that they take advantage of me because when their mother says no to their request, they keep calm and wait to ask me. So when my wife, in annoyance, asks them why they took something she had told them not to take, they tell her that I told them to take it.

So, what I do is that before I give them permission to do something, I tell them to ask their mum.

But there are many ways I discipline my kids. Children love television, so I can decide not to pay for cable TV and they cannot force me to bring the money out of my pocket. Also, I tell them that if their grades at school are good, I would do something for them. I bar them from stepping out of the house, playing football or saxophone until the right thing is done. But they try not to make me angry.

What gives you fulfilment as a father?

I’ve learnt not to worry too much; I put in one day at a time and I am grateful for the little I have been able to achieve. I believe that every child comes with a blessing. All we need to do is to tap into that blessing, make them work on it, connect with it and you will be shocked that it becomes easy for you to explore. That is fulfilment for me.

What is your view about who, between a man and his wife, should manage the home, especially as some people believe it is a woman’s responsibility?

For me, parenting is a partnership. Once there is an understanding between a man and his wife, they can achieve anything.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]