Handling a child who steals
TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN writes about ways parents can train kids who steal

It will naturally break any parents’ hearts to learn that their kids grow into adulthood to become thieves. It is for this reason that a Yoruba proverb counsels that children should be trained in the early years so they don’t become monsters at adulthood.

Speaking about the issue, an Osun State-based businesswoman, Mrs Taiwo Oni, urged parents to make necessary things available for a child exhibiting tendencies to steal to check the behaviour.

She said strict parents might push their children to steal because of the fear of asking them what they needed.

She said, “Parents should not be too strict on their children as it will create a big barrier between them and their children. Children should be free to ask for what they need. If you put money on the table for them to have access to it, the money will not mean much to them whenever they see it. Give them access to the kitchen if it is food they are always stealing. It is also wise to occasionally speak with them on the behaviour.’’

Another parent, Mrs Bola Solaja, told SUNDAY PUNCH that knowing the cause of why a child steals would help the parent to manage the situation quickly.

She said, “It is better to caution the child early enough so that the situation can be managed. Also, it is wise to interrogate the child; ask questions in a loving and pitiful manner. Don’t shout or beat the child, be calm with such a child so that you can get information from him or her. Then, you can now act on the information.”

Solaja also advised parents to seek the face of God in handling the situation at infancy.

Like Solaja, Mrs Gladys Joel, urged parents to be mindful of age in handling theft in children, identifying exhibition of love as one of the best ways to help such a child.

She said, “A child below age five can be saved but a child above the age is a big issue that will take the grace of God to be saved from the habit. Your reaction as a parent towards the affected child will determine the child’s fate.

“When a child admits stealing, counsel and encourage him or her to stop the act and probably punish him by withdrawing his favourite hobbies. Counsel him to always seek owner’s permission before taking anything that is not his or hers.’’

The housewife said parents could sparingly use the rod depending on the severity of the offence, noting that it was vital to also let the child know the danger of stealing.

In his contribution, a teacher and father of three boys, Mr Henry Asuquo, said peer pressure was on the rise so children could steal for various reasons.

He stated, “It is best to always assess a child that steals by checking the history to ascertain the best approach to tackling it. Some children steal because of peer pressure, jealousy, financial demands from home or even because of boredom.

“Some children also steal when they feel something is missing in their lives; when they feel vulnerable, or unable to control their desire. Managing a child that steals should involve a multidisciplinary action with a firm approach in mind. Beating will not help.”

He said if the habit was caused by a financial burden, then with good support from schools, teachers and extended families, the child might stop stealing.

Asuquo said, “Children, especially those that are a bit older, can also benefit from seminars/webinar on self-control, managing peer pressure and understanding the implications of stealing later in life. There is no justification for stealing, but with good history and understanding of the situation, there can be help for appropriate therapy to check the habit.’’

Also, a doctor, Mr Lawrence Olusola, advised parents with stealing kids to put such children in charge of things.

He said, “If the child steals money, tell the child to keep some money for you. Tell the child that you trust him or her to be accountable for the money. You will be surprised the child won’t steal again.

“Also, from time to time, buy the child things that he or she steals. For example, if the child stills meat, you can give the child two pieces of meat.’’

Commenting on the issue, a pastor, Mrs Olusola Ade, said parents must first provide the children with basic necessities before accusing them of stealing.

She said, “First, I think parents should provide the child with basic necessities they can afford because hunger can make children steal. If that is the case, one cannot blame the child even though that is not a good excuse to steal. But mind you, we are talking about children. Besides, parents need to teach their kids actions and consequences early. Parents often overlook or pardon dirty acts.

“But if the case is caused by greed and lack of contentment and not hunger, I advise parents of such children to keep items in the custody of such kids to make them accountable for things early enough.’’

In her contribution, a developmental psychologist, Prof. Grace Adejuwon, said parents should first know that kids steal for different reasons.

She said, “A child can steal not because it is the child’s character but because they just want to explore things for different reasons. The reasons children steal can be classified into two: Deprivation or entitlement.

“For example, a parent can place a cake on the table and a child already given a piece of it will return to it to take more without seeking permission from his or her parent. The child would keep going back to the cake to take more until the cake is almost finished.

“The other part is when the child is deprived; either of food or other things. If the child is hungry but denied food, such a child will go ahead to steal food and damn the consequences.”

According to the lecturer, deprived children should be catered for through the provision of good food and other necessities.

She said, “For the other category of children, the parents should have conversation with them. Make them see the consequences of their behaviour. Once you make a child see the consequences of such behaviour, the child is not likely to repeat the behaviour. Talk positively to the child by saying you are confident that he or she is not a thief.’’

Adejuwon, who teaches at the University of Ibadan, Oyo State, said parents should also set punishment for light-fingered kids which they would both agree to enforce whenever the act was repeated.

She stated that before a child could begin taking things from outsiders, the child must have started doing so from home.

The lecturer noted, “The parents should check the child if it has become a habit done with the expectation of reward from it. A child who steals from people outside must have been doing so from home.

“That is why parents need to deal with stealing once and for all. There should be consequences for a child who steals, but not with physical abuse.’’

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]