You can have babies free of genetic diseases
Dr. Abayomi Ajayi

01-4667360, 07026277855 [email protected]

You and your spouse could be at risk of transmitting an inheritable disease either because you are living with a genetic disorder or you have the trait of a genetic disorder.

If you are worried that your children could potentially inherit a genetic disorder, you need to know that it is possible to prevent transmission and inheritance of common and uncommon hereditary abnormalities such as sickle cell disorder, down syndrome, albinism, cancer, blindness, etc., in children simply by screening the parents.

Transmitting potential genetic disorders to your children can be eliminated through pre-implantation genetic testing that comprises pre-implantation genetic diagnosis (PGD)—a procedure used to help identify genetic defects within embryos, and preimplantation genetic screening (PGS)—that helps identify an abnormal number of chromosomes in the genes.

The common goal of PGD/PGS is to prevent genetically-linked ailments from being passed on to children. The tests increase the chance of selection of healthy embryos that will develop into healthy babies. If you’re a candidate for IVF, PGD/PGS might be just right for you.

It is possible to take a cell from the embryo, analyse it and be able to tell all the diseases that the embryo can be predisposed to in life.

Getting married is a gamble because you do not know what diseases you or your spouse may be carrying. Certain diseases can be removed with PGD/PGS. With gene sequencing, it can tell if you are going to be prone to disease even if you have not developed that disease. But it can enable you to start preventing it.

With PGD/PGS, you can screen for many disorders and we know there are some very rare diseases in Nigeria among normal people.

While PGD helps reduce the chances of conceiving a child with a genetic disorder, it cannot eliminate this risk. In some cases, further testing is needed during pregnancy to ascertain if a genetic factor is still possible.

Although genetically present, some diseases only symptoms when carriers reach middle age. The probability of disorder development should be a topic of discussion with the healthcare provider.

Currently, thousands of diseases can be prevented by doing these tests, including breast cancer that can be inherited.

For instance, a gene for breast cancer has been isolated. Also, some babies are going to be blind after a few years, with PGD/PGS, it is possible to prevent congenital blindness, deafness, sickle cell disease, etc. Others like cystic fibrosis are included.

When you and your spouse are predisposed to a disease (carriers), if you come together, you can produce a child that manifests the full disease.

All normal persons are carriers of at least five to eight diseases even though not all the diseases are manifested. The problem comes when you marry another person that carries the same aberration. A typical example is the sickle cell disorder.

If you are of AS genotype and you marry someone that is also of AS genotype, the transmission of the sickle cell gene is possible each time you have a baby for the disease to manifest. There will be a 25-per cent chance that the baby could have SS genotype.

Some other diseases have a 50 per cent chance of inheritance. The whole essence is to screen couples to ensure that even if you and your spouse are carriers, your children would not have the diseases that you both carry.

When you have an abnormal child, it takes so much from you. It’s much better to prevent it. For instance, in male factor infertility when there is very bad sperm count, we now know that the embryo depends on the integrity of the sperm for its survival, so if you have very bad sperm you are likely to give very bad embryos, it is important to screen you with these procedures to ensure that the embryos you are transferring are normal.

All this is possible thanks to the advancements in genetics. You can be screened even when you are not married or pregnant to know the genetic aberrations that you carry so that when you want to get married, you would already be aware and would not marry another person who carries the same kind of aberration. This would ensure you are not predisposed to having a baby that would have the full-blown disease.

If you and your spouse both carry abnormal genes, tests can be done even before conception to ensure that the embryo that is transferred does not carry the disease. During pregnancy, screening can be done for genetic diseases with non-invasive prenatal testing using maternal blood.

Congenital abnormalities are quite common just that majority are not diagnosed. Sometimes the babies with congenital abnormalities die in the uterus, but because the number of autopsies done for such babies is low in these parts, there is the need to investigate further.

Chromosomal and congenital abnormalities are common. Very rare diseases can be screened. It is known that in the first three months of life that most pregnancy losses have genetic problems. Majority of spontaneous abortions and recurrent miscarriages are not normal pregnancies in the first place and natural termination could be nature’s way of ensuring that abnormal babies are not born. Also, recurrent miscarriage may just be nature’s way of saying that the coming together of two people is abnormal and that their products have issues.

Among some of the commonest reasons are why they are not normal is because they have chromosomal anomalies. You are your partner could be carriers of a diagnosable disorder or one of you could be manifesting a particular disease that you want to prevent from being transmitted to your child. PGS screenings are done to make sure that your embryos are normal and can become babies. Once PGS can confirm that the chromosomes are 23 pairs, chances are very high that such embryo can become a baby.

Every couple is at risk of having abnormal embryos. This risk increases significantly as women get older. An abnormal embryo almost always fails to implant, or if it does, ends in a biochemical pregnancy, miscarriage, fetal death later in pregnancy, stillbirth or a baby with abnormalities.

Often, PGD and PGS are needed to help to pick embryos that would become healthy babies, and also to diagnose diseases. If you are a woman getting pregnant above 40, you will benefit a lot from these tests because the chances of error in your genes are higher than in younger women.

If you are undergoing IVF, you may select PGS because of severe male factor infertility, recurrent IVF failures, older age or a very large number of embryos. PGS can be useful if you are experiencing multiple miscarriages.

Embryos can be screened for chromosomal abnormalities that occur as a result of ageing in addition to heritable genetic diseases or specific heritable chromosomal disorders.

If you’re hoping to undergo IVF, chances are that you have been properly informed about it already even as you are learning a lot of new information before making the final decision. Among other procedures, you need to learn about PGD and PGS.

They are useful to help identify any genetic defects within your embryos and also to ensure that your embryos are with genes containing the normal number of chromosomes (PGS). The goal of both PGD and PGS is to increase the chance of selecting a healthy embryo that will develop into a healthy baby. These advances can make a real difference as birth defects occur in nearly 1 in 20 pregnancies, ranging in severity from minor anatomic abnormalities to extensive genetic disorders.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]