My greatest fear before marriage was losing my freedom –Igali
The President, Nigeria Wrestling Federation and the immediate past member of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, Mr Daniel Igali, talks about what fatherhood has taught him with SIMON UTEBOR

T ell us more about yourself.

I am an avid sports fan. I am a wrestler of international repute -Olympic champion and world champion. I was 20 years old when I left the country. During my brief time in Nigeria, I was in the national team as a budding athlete and at the age of 20, I had already won two African titles.

How would you describe fatherhood?

I see fatherhood not only in terms of someone who had intercourse with a woman who got pregnant and had a baby. I think fatherhood involves a lot more than that. Fatherhood means taking responsibility; it means having trust around and about one’s kids and everything around them, including the mother.

Fatherhood for me is a huge responsibility and I would advise anyone who is not prepared to shoulder that heavy responsibility, which sometimes could turn to a burden, to wait until they are ready to do so.

When did you become a father?

I became a father when I was young. I was in my teens when I had my first daughter. I was barely out of high school and my girlfriend at the time accidentally got pregnant. I thought the world would come to an end but somehow, it turned out okay. My daughter, Eyibatimi Igali, has finished university now and she is married. That was how I became a father. At first, it wasn’t really planned, it was by happenstance.

What did the experience teach you?

I would say people should plan well before getting married. No one should rush into it because it is a massive responsibility. It is not what anyone should take lightly and I don’t think there is the right or wrong time. The only right time is when someone decides that they are responsible and the person says this is the right time to care, protect and be a right friend to another human being.

In Africa, marriage is not just about the wife or the husband. It is about their families, friends and acquaintances. Be ready for marriage only when you are prepared to have other families.

Would you say you married at the right time when you eventually married?

I would say yes. When I got married, I was past 30 and done with the Olympics. I had gone to the second Olympics and returned. I felt it was the time I could devote time to my wife and kids. I think I got married at the right time.

What has fatherhood taught you?

Fatherhood has taught me to be selfless. When I was an athlete, it was more about self and my time. Everything was about me mostly and sometimes, with my teammates.

Once one has a kid, it changes one’s life completely and the majority of one’s decisions will be altered but it brings one joy knowing that one has a responsibility to nurture another human being into the world for the benefit of society.

One is often presumed by what judgment would arise from the behaviours of one’s kids outside and one wants them to be groomed and ensure that when they are in public, they are well behaved.

Fatherhood is about protection. It has taught me that I have to be protective of my family, be responsible and above all, it taught me to love. When kids grow up the right way, they are like puppies, it is unconditional love and I don’t think one can get that from anywhere. You can’t get the love you get from your kids and wife from anywhere else. It is a unique situation.

How do you bond with your children?

Apart from my older daughter who is an adult and has started her own family, my other kids are young. My eldest son, Ebilade is 13, Ebiere is turning nine this year and my youngest, Ebitimi, just clocked six in April. They are quite young, but I don’t bond with them in a way that is as natural as one would because for the past 10 years, I have spent a lot of time in Nigeria and my kids are in Canada.

We video chat almost every day except I am away or somewhere where I do not have Internet or on the plane when they are in bed. Even at that, I would record a video message and send to them. But my son specifically plays video games a lot, especially soccer and FIFA 2019. That is one of the greatest ways we bond actually.

We play online games and even when I am in Canada, we play league games and sometimes we play against each other or we are on the same team and discuss. I like doing the things they do. Ebiere does ballet and swimming. Right now, they are all involved in soccer too. If I am in Canada, I take them to their games. Even in the yard around the house, I play with them. Also, when they want to have functions or parties, I ensure that they involve all their friends when I am in Canada with them. If I am not there, I participate by sending them video messages.

How do you discipline them whenever they misbehave?

When my children misbehave, I don’t flog them. Because of culture and where we are from, we normally have time out. This means that a child who does what he is not supposed to do, will have to go stay by himself for a while until he comes back to apologise for what he did and we continue again. It has been working very well. And because I don’t stay with my kids, my wife disciplines them whenever they do wrong. I become a shelter when I come home or when I am with them. In terms of discipline, that is how it works. I have not had many issues with the kids, maybe because I am not around them as much.

Would you want any your kids to follow in your career path?

With respect to any of my kids going into my profession, I do not think that is a problem. I would leave my kids to choose their talents in whatever God wants them to become. If God wants all of them to be athletes or artistes, of course, I would want everyone to go to school but while going to school they can pursue whatever vocation that has been assigned to them that they love. I would not force any of them to engage in my sport but I would be glad if one of them does wrestling.

How do you combine your fatherhood roles with being the president of NWF?

I multitask a lot and the job of the NWF is not one that requires you to work from morning till night. It is a part-time job. It is a job you are not paid for, it is almost a volunteer job.

Even as a member of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly and president of the wrestling association, I still had other things I was doing. I was doing a lot of other related tasks coaching young kids and mentoring them while being a member of the Assembly. I left the Assembly a few months ago. I was doing my work as president of NWF without any complaints.

You acquired Canadian citizenship in 1998. What informed that decision?

I think that the decision was informed by what was happening in Nigeria at the time. We had a military regime. I was in school in Jos. I was going into the third year in school and carrying over 14 courses because I was representing the country when exams were being taken. I wasn’t allowed to come back to take the exams. I did not see the future, so when I went to Canada, I knew I had better opportunities there and decided to stay back.

What values did you imbibe from your father?

My father was the type that was strict. But what I imbibed from him was the habit of getting too involved with what kids liked to do. I remember when I was young, I got too interested in wrestling and my mother and some people around did not want that and they wanted me to go to school but my father was supportive.

He would always at every opportunity tell me that I had to follow any passion I had and that whatever God-given talent I had, I had to nurture it. I think I have also been that way with my kids. Even though they are young, I try to, while advising them, not stop them from doing what they want to do. I would only guide and allow everyone to be what they are.

I do not know if I am a strict parent because I am a good friend to my kid. When I am around, they are in heaven. I have been doing the best I can as a father. That is all I can say.

How do you resolve marital differences with your wife?

If we have differences, we talk about the issues, we discuss them and if somebody is upset, the other person, after discussing the issues, will apologise if the person is wrong. That is how we go about things. Of course, it is not always as smooth as you think. Sometimes, we don’t go on talking for a few hours until tempers come down.

Do you usually involve a third party to resolve your differences with your wife?

I have never had to involve anybody else, not even my friends because we have not got to that point and I do not really know any serious disagreement or argument I have had with my wife that I involved anybody else. Everything has stayed between us.

What was the biggest fear you nursed before you got married?

The biggest fear I entertained before I got married was that of freedom. I am someone that likes to be alone. I am someone who likes to read. Even when I am involved in watching something that I like, I don’t like to be disturbed and I did not want someone else to now own a part of my life. That was what I was most afraid of before I got married. When I was in my mid-20s, there was someone I liked very much that I could have got married to but that fear made me hold back until that relationship fell apart.

Did you accompany your wife to the labour room during the birth of any of your kids?

During the birth of my children, I have been around for just one of them, the last one and I was there a week before she was due and it was by caesarean section anyway. I was there in the room when the operation took place and after the baby was brought out, I was the first person they gave the baby to.

Funnily enough, of all my kids, she is the one that bonds more with me. This may be because I was probably the first person to carry her. I wish I was with the three of them but I was around for the last one.

Do your kids give you gifts?

Yes, all the time. At every opportunity, my kids get together to give me gifts because what we also do for them is that when they do well, they get financial rewards. They always have pocket money to do things, to celebrate Father’s Day, Christmas Day, Easter, etc., for us. They always buy gifts for us.

How do you celebrate your kids when they make you proud?

We organise small parties for them and ask them to invite their friends and also buy gifts for them. I personally take them out sometimes. I allow them to choose what they like for themselves and I buy those things for them. I also make the effort of making them know how proud I am by encouraging them to do more. I make promises at times that if they are able to do better in school, sport or whatever they do, I will support them more. When my son’s soccer team won a title, he brought all his teammates and we celebrated them.

What advice do you have for young couples?

I will advise them not to rush into marriage. Marriage is something one should take seriously. If you are planning to get married, you should be sure of the person because it is a lifelong commitment. I am not someone that will encourage filing for a divorce.

If you date someone long enough, you should know who they are, what you can tolerate and what you can’t. My advice to couples is that they should endeavour to date, know each other well and not rush into marriage.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]