My marriage…with Benita Okojie-Adeyina
Tope Omogbolagun

How did you meet your husband?

We went to the same university. We were friends and from there it progressed into a relationship and after that, we got married.

What events led to your marriage proposal?

I am a private person. I wanted to have a private and intimate proposal. I didn’t want the loud or public proposal. My husband and my sister are close and are business partners. He planned it with my sister. That day, we were supposed to go on a date but he said he wanted to quickly get something done. My sister said the same thing. I went to get my bag and by the time I returned, he was down on one knee. I was screaming and became emotional. By the time I calmed down, I said yes.

For how long did you court before marriage?

We courted for four years.

How has been the journey so far?

It’s been amazing. He has been my friend even before we started dating so there were things that had been known. God has really been helping us. We are both Christians, so we know that we take all our issues to God in prayers and He has really been helping us. I have learned and realised that I can be a better person and now that I am responsible for people, not just my husband but also our children.

He also realises that we both can be better for each other and for our children. Also, every marriage is unique. We have learnt that prayer works for us; we have prayed through every storm and every challenge and God always comes through for us. We have learnt our lesson which is unique for us.

What lessons has marriage taught you?

Marriage has taught me to know that we are a team and we should always consider our team partner. We know that we are not against ourselves but against our problems, and we can always deal with anything together. I have also learnt to listen to the other person. Don’t feel that you must always have the final say. You should listen to each other. Be open to learning.

There were some meals I didn’t know how to cook or cook well. I have learnt them and I cook them well now. One should also know that there is always room for improvement. It’s also important that we help each other to grow in every aspect of life; business, gifts, and talents. One should not be stagnant while the other is growing.

What are some of the qualities that endeared you to him?

I can’t mention them all because there many qualities. I will mention a few which I want in public. He loves God. He is supportive and kind.

What is your advice to singles on marriage?

Trust in God and don’t let people dictate when to marry to you. Don’t let them dictate how early or how quick you should get married. What is more important is that you get married to a good person. Don’t leave God out of the equation. Let God be the formula of the equation itself. I have come to know that everything God does is special, even though it is special, that doesn’t mean that there won’t challenges. Wait on God. He doesn’t leave people stranded.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]