Fatherhood improved my management skills – Omare, IYC President
Eric Omare is the President of the Ijaw Youth Council and a lawyer. He tells ALEXANDER OKERE about his journey to fatherhood, the challenges and benefits

When did you become a father?

I became a father in October, 2009, when I had my first son.

What does fatherhood mean to you?

It is a wonderful experience. It made me move from a stage in life to another stage. At this level, you no longer look at yourself as one person but as a family – you, your wife and children. It is a permanent transition in life.

At what age did you become a father?

I became a father at 29.

Do you think you became a father early?

To me, that wasn’t really early. I felt that if I had the opportunity, I would have become a father earlier. I will encourage my sons to marry earlier than I did. Becoming a father at 29 was late for me but it was a blessing and not a burden. It didn’t stop me from doing what I wanted to do.

What has fatherhood taught you?

I will say it has given me a sense of responsibility. When I am out of town, I remember that my family is there. So, I call them to know how they are doing. The increased responsibility has made me to be a good time manager.

Where were you when you had your first child?

I was in the University Kingdom studying for my master’s degree at the University of Aberdeen when my wife was delivered of our first child. So I did not witness the birth of my first son.

Did you feel sad about that?

I think I saw it as one of those things in life; things don’t always go the way they are planned.

How did you feel when you set your eyes on him for the first time?

I felt wonderful.

What was the inspiration behind the names you gave to your children?

I wanted names that tell something about my life, especially as it concerns God. So, I named my first son, Tamara-Denyefa (which means nothing is greater than God). My second son is called Doubra. My daughter was born in 2015 so we called her Karena (God has answered our prayer). In all, the names reflect the experience of my wife and me as a couple.

What has fatherhood changed about you?

My social life has changed. I used to go out with my friends often and travel to the places I liked without minding when I needed to return at a particular time. But that kind of social life is gone now because I consider my responsibility as a father before taking any decision. It has also changed the way I managed resources. When I have resources, the first thing that comes to my mind is family responsibility. As a father, I don’t spend resources anyhow I want; frivolity has reduced because when you engage in frivolous spending, you will be confronted with family responsibility the next minute. When that happens, there is nobody you can run to. Fatherhood has helped me to be more focused.

Apart from being the president of the popular Niger Delta youth organisation, you are also a lawyer. How do you balance your work and family life?

I’m lucky to have an understanding wife. I travel a lot. But when I’m around, I try to make myself available by spending time with my family. But I don’t feel comfortable travelling in way that affects the educational growth of my children. For instance, as a parent in the present-day educational system, you are expected to work with your children. But I don’t have that time, though my wife, to a large extent helps out with that. It is something that I will like to do more when I have more time. I work closely with my wife. But above all, we have been managing so far.

What are the other challenges that come with fatherhood?

Ordinarily, the nature of the Nigerian society makes it (fatherhood) more challenges. In Nigeria, you struggle for everything. The economy is challenging, so you need to work extra hard to meet up with the challenges of taking care of one’s family. Insecurity is another challenge. When we were growing up, a man could leave his children with anybody and feel at home. But now, you can’t do that because you are not sure about the intention of the next person. However, these challenges are natural things that one must face as a father.

Can you tell us about your most memorable experience as a dad?

The most memorable for me was when my son had a distinction in all his subjects in his First School Leaving Certificate examination. I felt very proud and challenge to give all he requires to further his education. That is fulfilling to me as a father. My kids’ success gives me fulfilment.

What are the values you learnt from your father that you are teaching your kids?

I teach them to have understanding because understand helps to keep a home. I also teach them to be attentive. I tell them to avoid dishonesty and things that could soil the family name. I teach them the virtue of truthfulness, self-respect, honesty and love for their neighbours.

How do you discipline your kids when they err?

The first thing is to talk to them and caution them. But if they persist, I could whip them; but that is not the usual punishment unless it (offence) is extreme.

How do you reward them?

I take them out and buy them gifts.

How do you relax with your kids?

Sometimes, we travel for annual festivals within and outside the country, depending on our schedules. They like visiting Calabar (Cross River State) and Lagos State.

Has any of your kids shown interest in your profession?

I allow them to grow and develop their interest individually, instead of putting pressure on them to move to a particular direction. But I monitor them. I think the best way to excel in any human endeavour is for a person to do what they have a passion for, rather than dictating to them.

What advice do you give your children about making friends?

I advise them to avoid anybody that will expose them to danger, though they are still young to know who will be a bad or good associate. But as they grow old, they will be able to know they can associate with and they can do.

Many fathers find it difficult to expose their children to their local dialect and tradition. What is your experience in this area?

It is a challenge for me, especially because my wife and I are not from the same area. My wife is from Isoko tribe while I am from the Ijaw tribe. So, we don’t speak the same local language. But I share the view that children should be exposed to local languages and traditional activities but implementing this is a challenge for me. I think it is something I need to improve on. So, far, I cannot say I have done very well.

What would you tell young men aspiring to become fathers?

Men who want to be fathers should not be scared about it or say it is financially, emotionally or mentally challenging. Having girlfriends is not better than having a family. So, they should know that it is a wonderful experience.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]