Dad used native intelligence to settle complex issues — Oba Asanike’s son
Kolawole is a son to the late Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Yesufu Asanike. He talks about his father’s life and reign with OLUFEMI ATOYEBI

Tell us more about yourself.

I was born in Ibadan to the royal family of Asanike. My father was the Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Yesufu Asanike, who reigned between February 4, 1983 and December 24, 1993 when he died. My father succeeded Oba Daniel Akinbiyi, who also reigned between 1977 and 1982.

I attended St Louis Demonstration Primary School, Molete, Ibadan, Oyo State, before proceeding to Ibadan City Academy for secondary school education. I also attended Kaduna State Polytechnic.

After my graduation, I worked for some years in Nigeria before travelling to the United States for further studies in 2002. I was eager to advance my academic career in the US and have professional career experience before returning to the country to help in its development.

While I was in the US, I worked with some multinational oil servicing companies and I ascended to the position of a manager before deciding to be on my own. In 2010, I decided to start a consulting firm in the US to have time to travel to Nigeria regularly.

Before 2010, did you visit home?

I was constantly in touch with my root. I am a prince from a popular royal family in Ibadan; so, I had no intention of staying away. It is important that true sons of a town or city remain in touch and contribute their quota to the development of that town or city even when they are in the Diaspora.

I knew what the condition of the country was before I left Nigeria. I knew that I had to do something to help the people. The youth need employment so that they don’t get involved in anti-social vices. I don’t have money to give to people but I can help by creating employment.

I started a farm in 2008 and employed youths with various agricultural skills to work there. We also trained people and employed them on the farm. For me to have enough time to monitor what goes on in the farm, I needed to detach myself from working for companies by starting my own company.

Moreover, I developed passion for politics since my days in the polytechnic. I was a member of the Alliance for Democracy and the Action Congress. I am now a member of the All Progressives Congress. You cannot be functional as a politician if you stay away from your people. I combine consulting in the oil and gas industry, managing company information technology in the US with being a politician and agricultural investor in Nigeria.

What memory of your father has a special place in your mind?

Everybody knows how popular and influential Oba Asanike was while on the throne. He is dead now but he is still popular in the royal circle in Ibadan. Outside Nigeria, my father was well known. Today, people still refer to some of the things he did and said when he was alive as a king. That says a lot about some of his legacies. He loved Ibadan people and used a lot of native intelligence to handle complex issues.

A lot of people brought serious cases to the palace in anger but they left smiling. Oba Asanike would ensure that opposing parties embrace themselves before leaving the palace after he must have intervened in their matters. I was young then but I witnessed several events that stood my father out as a traditional leader. From the story I heard, he assumed the position of Mogaji in the 1940s and since then, he had been helping people, using his personal resources to make people happy. He was a cocoa produce merchant who used his sweat to help in the development of the town.

Because of the intelligence he used to mediate in several disputes, it was convenient for many Ibadan indigenes and non-indigenes to approach the palace for settlement of disputes and family issues. They all left with smiles.

Many people secured jobs and contracts from Oyo State Government and the Federal Government because of my father’s intervention. He was a selfless leader who had the love of his people at heart. He came up with anything that could make the Ibadan people happy.

What position do you occupy among his children?

It is a royal family and a large family too. The position I occupy does not really matter. What is important is the unity that we have always maintained and the legacy of our late father that we cherish and still keep. I don’t want to place any number on my position in the family.

How was it like coming from such a large family?

When my father was alive, it was difficult to know the wife or child he loved most. The family, as I said, is a big one but Oba Asanike was in total control. He treated us equally. We all had good relationships with ourselves and we still do. We don’t discriminate or separate someone because his or her mother is different. My step-mothers treated me like their own son and I could eat from any of them. My mother did the same to children of other wives in the palace.

As human beings, however, it was impossible not to record friction but anything like that was quickly dealt with. In fact, the structure and family system would not allow any dispute to escalate.

Can you remember a particular quarrel in the palace among the wives and other members of the family?

There could be some quarrels but the children were shielded away from knowing anything about them. It is customary that children are not exposed to quarrels between parents or wives in the house because of the after-effect it could have on that family. The Asanike family is tight and closely knit. The majority of us were young in the palace then. Don’t forget that he died 25 years ago.

How would you compare your father before and when he became a king?

In terms of attitude, there was no difference between the two periods. The only difference is the status or the crown he wore. As a chief, he was humble and he used his resources, as I earlier said, to help others. When he became king, he also used the influence and authority attached to his position to help many people.

King Asanike constantly turned serious issues to jokes, even political matters. How were these jokes perceived in the palace?

In most cases, people didn’t understand my father’s state of mind when he made some of those comments. He would not trivialise serious issues in his comments. People consider those statements as jokes but he was only saying it from his own point of view. He said things the way they were and he was honest about his views.

He liked to call a spade a spade. Some jokes were however deliberate. The level of civilisation when he was growing up was low compared to the world he lived as a king. As an old man, who had seen it all, he was always seeing things from his position no matter how serious they were. You cannot remove that sense of humour from his life but he was mentally responsible.

He once said that big rats invaded his palace and sent him out. How true was this?

He was the first Olubadan that used a palace built by government in Oja’ba and he was still the only one that used the palace. I am aware that something like that happened but by then, I was in school.

How much time did he dedicate to be with his children as a king?

He did that a lot before he became king and even after he was crowned. He would call us together and talk to us. If he could take care of other peoples’ children, he would do more for his children.

Ascendancy to the throne of Olubadan takes many years and many high chiefs may not be alive when it is their turn. How did the family react when it was your father’s turn?

Many people will start the journey to become Olubadan but only God knows who will get there. The unique democratic structure of how Olubadan emerges is straightforward without controversy. May the king live long and reign for a long time. When a king dies in Ibadan, the next family in the line will know it is their turn to produce the next king. It is like two sides of a coin. While a family mourns, the other rejoices. That is the way it is. Ibadan will not fight over who becomes the next king.

What is the favourite food of Oba Asanike?

As an Ibadan man, he loved amala (yam flour) and gbegiri (beans soup). But he also ate other kinds of foods like pap and so on.

How has your father’s name helped you?

When your parents have good news, it is left for you to know how to manage it. You must also know that you must leave a good name behind one day too. My surname is not an opportunity for me to sit back and wait for people to help me. I struggled to reach where I am now. God has designed it that I will bear the name Asanike but my worry is how I will distinguish myself in society and how I will leave behind a good name for my children.

Which of his lesson strikes you always?

My father told us to think more about other people who do not enjoy any privileges and not to be self-centred. That is what he stood for. When I say that I aspire to be the next governor of Oyo State, all that comes to my mind is using that office to help people. I have seen the other side of the world. I have seen good and functional infrastructure in the US and what came to my mind is how we can replicate that in Nigeria. If you help people, they will not forget you. That is what I learned from my father. He lived for humanity. My father gave out a lot of things and that is a big lesson for me.

Do you tell your children the story of Oba Asanike?

I do it every time I have the opportunity. The Bible and the Quran urge us to love the next person as ourselves. That is another lesson he taught us.

Where were you when he died?

I was outside Ibadan but the news spread fast. I was shocked even though he died of old age. No matter how old your parents are, you will feel bad when they die. It was painful to hear the death of my father.

How about your mother?

My mother was like an angel to me. May her soul rest in peace.

Who used the cane on you more between your father and mother?

I didn’t see more of that. They would rather talk to any erring child than beat the child.

Do you think your father achieved all that he wanted as a king?

My father continued from where his predecessor left the development of Ibadan. He enjoyed good relationship with the governors that ruled Oyo State while he was king. He could not have done it all. When there is continuity, development will be steady. That is why I said that if I am voted as the next governor of the state, I will continue from where the present governor, Abiola Ajimobi, stops, using his blueprint. You can’t assume office and begin to change things especially when they are not bad.

Lagos is enjoying the plan that was laid by former governor Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu. If we can build on the present plan in the state, we can catch up with Lagos State. My father began a campaign meant to develop Ibadan and I think subsequent Olubadan has followed it.

He called for the creation of Ibadan State and other monarchs in the town have been calling for the creation of Ibadan State. If Osun State were to still be in Oyo State, it might not develop at the rate it is doing now.

Governor Ajimobi installed 21 kings in Ibadan though the action is now a subject of litigation. Do you think your father would have supported the creation of many kings in Ibadan?

It would be difficult to read the mind of the dead. Honestly, I don’t know what his reaction would be if he were to be alive.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]