Motherhood taught me that every child is unique — Taiwo
A housewife, Mrs Doyin Taiwo, shares her motherhood experience with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN

What is your baby’s name?

My baby’s name is Ewaoluwa Dele-Taiwo.

When was she born?

She was born on February 15, 2018.

How would you describe your labour experience?

In a general sense, I will say that the experience is painful. Although I believe that there is grace for it. I went to the hospital myself. Immediately I began to sense some strange feelings, I picked my bag and headed to the clinic. Due to the knowledge I had from my antenatal classes, I was able to guess that it was labour pain. I called the midwife who was handling my antenatal and she told me to come to the hospital. I was there for about five to six hours walking up and down, praying and crying before the baby finally came. I think at the end of the day, it was worth it because I laughed last.

How did you feel when you finally held your baby?

I felt relieved and I was so happy. Tears of joy rolled down my cheeks.

Do you think labour experience is usually over-hyped by mothers?

Let me say the way it is being projected is wrong; the experience cannot be generalised. It is not something that you can generalise. As individuals, we are unique; we respond to stress, pains and situations differently. So each experience is peculiar to an individual, it depends on you as a person. The way you see and handle pains depend on you as an individual. For instance, I was told that some people will abuse their husband or sometimes curse themselves and the baby because of the pains but I didn’t do all that while I was in the labour room.

Was your husband with you in the labour room?

Yes, he was with me in the labour room.

How did the experience affect him?

It was a strange experience for him because he had never experienced such before. That gave him a better perspective of what women go through. It made him appreciate motherhood better.

How did you prepare for childbirth?

I attended antenatal classes, read books and also checked online for materials. Even in the morning when I started having contractions, I checked online to be sure it was labour.

Do you think the materials helped to prepare you for delivery?

Yes, they did. Like I said earlier, I went to the clinic myself. I was able to know that the pains I was feeling were labour pains because of the materials I read. I started feeling somehow at midnight but I didn’t pay serious attention to it. But by afternoon when it continued, I had to go online to read about labour pains and what they entail. Reading helped me to understand what I was taught in my prenatal classes. It was the understanding from reading the materials that made me conclude that what I was experiencing was labour pain.

How did you manage pregnancy?

I was able to manage it well by the grace of God because it is a new experience entirely. It comes with a lot of changes in one. One will discover that one is unable to do what one used to do. I thank God for the grace and strength to go through that phase. Also, the encouragement and support of people around me also helped a lot.

What foods did you crave during pregnancy?

Like I have said earlier, people’s experiences are different. In my own case, I didn’t crave any food. In fact, I did not really eat during pregnancy. I didn’t desire any particular kind of food; I like varieties, so I ate different kinds of food. If I felt like eating a particular food at a time, I did so not that I craved anything special for a long period of time.

What do you cherish the most about being a mother?

Motherhood is a thing of joy; I cherish holding someone who was in my womb for nine months and who I passed through pains to deliver. Watching my baby grow from one stage to the other is something that excites me a lot.

What lessons has motherhood taught you?

Motherhood has taught me how to multi-task and meet deadlines because as a mother, one has many responsibilities and one must function properly. It has also taught me patience and how to nurture a life. It taught me a new dimension of training people and knowing the uniqueness in every human being.

It made me understand human dynamics; people will come to you that this is how you handle a baby or how to treat a baby. But in the real sense, babies are different.

People will give you general tips about training a baby and you will discover that when you adopt that for your child, it may not work. It has helped me to relate with individuals for who they are and not apply general principles in relating to people.

How do you balance the attention you give your child and husband?

It is easy to balance if you have an understanding and a helpful husband. The understanding of the husband will go a long way in helping the woman. The husband must come to the understanding that it is no longer about the two of them. They are now three and the husband must realise that the baby needs the mother’s attention more than him. She has the same 24 hours of the day to meet all the demands. Like in my case, my husband understands the fact that I have to take care of the child and he manages the remaining time with me.

Do you have anyone with you helping with the chores?

For now, we don’t. I do the house chores and my husband also helps a lot in that regard.

What is your advice to expectant mothers?

My advice is that they should have a positive mind towards the day of their delivery. A positive mind will help them to gather the strength they need for delivery. They should believe that it is possible and it will be easy for them. They should see motherhood as a gift from God that must be handled with a high sense of responsibility. They should start preparing themselves because it is a lot of work.

Motherhood gives no room for laziness; once you give birth there is no place for such. They shouldn’t give in to all the tiredness that comes with pregnancy like wanting to sleep the whole day and all that. If they abide by this, it will help them to prepare well for motherhood. Motherhood is a great responsibility and every stage has its own demand.

What do you miss the most about your pre-motherhood stage?

I miss having time for myself. I can’t do anything I like, and I have to work with the child’s timetable. I miss my leisure time. If I want to do house chores, it has to be dictated by her time too. Even if I want to sleep; I sleep when she is asleep but the whole sacrifice is worth it.

Is she on exclusive breastfeeding?

Yes, she is on exclusive breastfeeding.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]