I begged God to make my first child a girl — Okechukwu
Nollywood actor, Iyke Okechukwu, shares what fatherhood has taught him with DOLAPO AKITOYE

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood is huge. It’s a huge God-given responsibility. It involves being entrusted to take care of the young one and life that God has blessed one with. I say fatherhood is huge because not everyone is responsible enough to be a father and one is supposed to bring up the kids who come into the world with nothing but as an empty slate.

It is the responsibility of the parents to fashion them in a way that in the future, one would look at them and be proud of them. They are supposed to be trained in a way that their emotional, mental, physical, social and educational needs are taken care of. It is a huge responsibility and a wonderful one.

When did you first become a father?

I got married in 2013 and I became a father in 2014. That was when we had our daughter.

Were you in the labour room during the birth of any of your children?

Yes, I was there when my wife gave birth to the two of them.

How did you find that experience?

It was tough and amazing. With our first child, my wife spent 26 hours in the labour room. I did not want to leave her side so I was there throughout. It was crazy and eventually when the baby came out, all the stress prior to that was forgotten.

How did you feel when your first child was born?

I cannot quantify the feeling. It is surreal. It is a feeling that cannot be imagined; it can only be experienced. That moment was one of those moments in my life that I do not know how to explain; I can only tell people to experience it to understand how it feels. I have to say that my daughter was very beautiful when she was born and she is still beautiful now.

Did you wish for a particular gender for any of your children?

Yes, I did. For the first one, I prayed to God. In fact, I begged God that it should be a girl and He didn’t let me down. I come from a home where we have a girl as the first child so I know the responsibility that she has. It is usually better for the girl to come first because she becomes like a second mother in the house. She tames the younger ones and takes care of them.

How did you become an actor?

It’s a long story actually. It was something I always wanted but did not really have a gut to pursue it. From the family I come from, everybody was leaning towards science-inclined courses and I was the first one to study an arts course and not just arts, but theatre arts. It was something I always wanted to do but I did not have the gut to even tell myself that it was what I wanted. I did some things related to it – I joined a drama group in my church and later became a member of a national drama troupe. This was during my secondary school days.

My brother told me that I should try and pursue my dreams and I didn’t take it seriously until I got to university. The course I applied for wasn’t what I was given and I had a little issue with the ‘change of course’ form. Eventually, to my surprise, I was given a ‘change of course’ form to Theatre Arts.

I found myself from Industrial Relations, Russian Language to Theatre Arts. I guess it was meant to be and when I told my father the course I was offered, he supported me. He wanted me to do what I wanted even though I expected a different reaction from him. This was how it all started and the story goes on from there.

How have you been able to manage fatherhood and your career especially as you and your wife are in the same industry?

Well, our job is not a regular nine to five job. Sometimes, we find ourselves away from the house for weeks but we were able to get a fantastic nanny. In fact, she is sent by God to us. Also, due to the fact that we are in Africa, our mothers are always coming to help and we have been able to manage it from there. It has not been easy but with our mothers and our nanny, it makes it a little easier to manage.

What values did you imbibe from your father that now guide you as a father?

My father was a man that always used his life to teach us. He was a practical man. We learnt from his life; there was no way his values wouldn’t rub off on anyone close to him. He was a very prayerful man and was also a family man. He always put God and his family first and that is the lifestyle I am trying to live. My father made sure that we understood the fact that no matter what happens and no matter how bad it is, one should try to put food on the table and also hold one’s family first because it is family before anything.

No matter how busy he was, he always had time for us. My father taught us how to love one’s wife and kids and also realise that, if one does that as a man, life would be sweeter, richer and smoother.

What has been your major challenge as a father?

My major challenge is the awareness that my children are going to be affected by society; the awareness that the society we are in now has a great impact on the kids. That is what scares me every day. The Bible says, teach a child the way he should go, even when he is old, he will not depart from it.

I am trying because at the end of the day one can only try one’s best. My constant fear is society because things are going wrong in society today and I am hoping that I will teach my children in the right way so that my kids would not be pushed by peer pressure and all of that. I am praying to God every day so that he can teach me how to guide them in the right way.

What has been some of your happiest moments as a father?

One of the happiest moments was when my kids were born. These are incredible moments that have followed me ever since I married my wife.

How do you discipline your children when they misbehave?

You know, growing up, our fathers did not take it easy with us. There was always a cane which worked on us because we turned out well. But these days, we try to balance it because the flip side to the way our parents brought us up is that most of us became timid. I am trying my best to balance it. I am trying to give them the opportunity to express their feelings; I try to scold them first before spanking them. If I spank them, they know that they must have really crossed the line for me to do that.

Also, when I spank them, I tell them the reason why I did that and I draw them close so that they learn from their mistakes.

How do you reward them when they make you happy?

I try to give them a good time. Someone once said if you always buy things for your kid every time he does something right, he would always expect those things and if he does not get them, he will feel bad.

I took that into consideration. But what I do is that I change it. Sometimes, I take them out to have fun and other times, I buy things for them. They know that something will come out of their good deeds but they won’t be able to predict what it will be and that helps. I always try to encourage them to make them feel good about themselves.

How do you relax?

I am a movie freak. I love going to the cinema. Sometimes, I sit at home with my family and we watch a movie and relax together. My wife is also good at cooking so she thrills them. My wife and I also try to create time for ourselves. Most of the time, the children are with us so we also hang out with them.

What makes a marriage work in your opinion?

To start with, I believe in God and I feel that prayer is the bedrock of a good relationship. I feel that if one puts God first, things will always fall into place. Also communication is key. This cannot be over-emphasised. It is paramount to a successful relationship. Then forgiveness is very important as well. Everybody comes into a relationship with their own baggage from what they have experienced before.

Some people do not want to be hurt as they were in the past, so they come into a new relationship giving little so that they won’t be hurt. And in not giving much of yourself, you are short-changing the relationship. If you come into a relationship and decide to forget the past and ready to be a forgiving person, over time your partner will learn from you as well.

How do you appreciate your wife?

I always try to put her first. I always do my best to show her that I love her. I try to be there for her always; I try to be as romantic as possible. I also try to take her out once in a while and also seek her advice. I avoid doing anything that will hurt her as well. It is a continuous process.

What kind of experiences do you want to create for your children?

Good experiences that they will not forget because when I think about my father, I remember all the amazing things we did together. Each time I am around the children, I try to have fun with them, take them for walks so that they would enjoy being around me. I want them to appreciate the relationship that we have. It would also help them to have good relationships with the people around them. This is to help them behave well to their own kids.

What advice would you give to children without fathers?

There are different reasons why one would not have a father. There are those that have lost their fathers. When I was growing up, I had friends that lost their fathers and I always tried to be there for them as a friend. If you are around a person that has lost their father, try your best to be there for them because you never know how far that can go. For those who do not have their fathers around, due to situations like divorce, they should also know that the world is not a bad place and things would always get better.

What advice would you give to aspiring fathers?

It’s a wonderful feeling and if one is to do it, one has to understand that it comes with a huge responsibility. A lot of nations are in a mess right now and it all starts from the family. A father needs to be the head of the home and also a good and positive figure in the child’s life because the child is watching. I notice that my son is always watching me. He always wants to know why I do things a certain way; he wants to talk, act and laugh like me. My daughter is always watching my wife as well. We are role models to our children and any man that is about to be a father needs to realise that.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]