I had 50 kits to test my pregnancy — Ewenkhare-Roberts
A legal practitioner, Mrs. Kemi Ewenkhare-Roberts, shares her joys of motherhood with DOLAPO AKITOYE

When did you give birth to your son?

I was delivered of him on November 1, 2017 in a private hospital in the Surulere area of Lagos.

Is this your first child?

No. He is my second child.

How would you describe your labour experience?

I thank God for a very easy labour. Towards the end of my pregnancy, I had high blood pressure – pregnancy-induced hypertension – and so, I guessed that the baby might be coming early. I had to be admitted into the hospital some days before the baby was born. This was about a month to my expected due date. It was all well and good until the doctor felt that it was not safe for me to carry on with the pregnancy; so, I was induced on October 31. There was no labour until 1.30 am on November 1 and by 3.15am, my baby was born. The nearly two hours experience was pretty intense but it was a short labour compared to those who went into labour for between 12 and 24 hours.

Was your husband in the labour room with you?

Yes, he was. I specifically requested him to be there.

Did you have a gender preference before your baby was born?

Yes, I did. I already had a girl; so, I really wanted a boy.

Did you do a scan to find out the gender?

Yes, I did ultrasound when I was 20 weeks pregnant.

How did you find out you were pregnant?

We had actually been trying for a while. I just kept on praying and hoping. I kept on testing myself. I had about 50 pregnancy test kits with me and I just kept testing every day until it was positive. It wasn’t like I was surprised; it was something I wanted so much.

Did you enjoy your pregnancy and what was the most difficult period of the experience?

The pregnancy was much easier than my first. The first trimester was the most difficult part because of the morning sickness even though it did not start until I was about eight weeks pregnant.

What were your cravings during pregnancy?

I craved roasted corn during pregnancy. I could eat it every day. Another thing was noodles water – not the noodles itself, just the water. I would make the noodles just for the sake of taking the water. Then, I also liked solid food but light ones like amala (yam flour).

What pregnancy symptom was the hardest for you to deal with?

The vomiting was hard to deal with. I would have said the high blood pressure but I had faith; I just knew that God was with me so I wasn’t even bothered. I knew that I was going to deliver safely and that God was going to be with me.

Did you experience any mood swings during pregnancy?

I was a little sickly; I wasn’t talking a lot and I was a little reserved but I wouldn’t say that I had mood swings.

What is your baby’s name and how did you choose it?

My son’s name is Joshua Oluwadamife. We call him both names. Joshua is also my husband’s name and my husband wanted my son to bear the name. I wanted to give my son a Christian name. So, it was between Joshua and David, but when my husband insisted on Joshua, I wanted to give him a Yoruba name that will mean the same things as David. As David means love, we decided to call him Oluwadamife (God created me for his love).

What has been the most challenging task since you gave birth?

When you have a baby and a toddler, I don’t think there is any phase in life that is as difficult as that phase. That has been the most challenging because both of them are babies and one wants to avoid sibling rivalry. As they are at different stages, one wants to ensure that both of them are okay. If my daughter was more mature in age, it would have been a different thing but as they are both babies, it is really challenging.

How has it been balancing motherhood and work at the same time?

That has been another tough and necessary part of motherhood because one has to make money to feed the children. I know the type of work I do and I know that I do not get home early. At a point, I was always using nannies but I had to settle for maids because maids can live in the house but nannies come and go; you cannot keep a nanny that has children. My maid and mother have been helping me a lot.

How has your husband been helping you in taking care of the babies?

Honestly, if I was asked to choose the thing I love the most about my husband, it will be the fact that he is a wonderful father. When I gave birth, he took his leave around the same time so that he would be around to help me. When he takes work trips, he cuts them short so he can be around to help out. He helps with night feeding. When we did not have a maid, he helped with the laundry so that I would not have to bother with that on top of nursing the baby. He also helped in taking care of my daughter so that I can focus on the baby. He helped with feeding her and taking her to school and bringing her back as well.

How has breastfeeding been for you?

I believe in exclusive breastfeeding for six months and that was what I did with my two children. My babies were born really small and when I had my daughter, breastfeeding was a bit discouraging because I did not enjoy the way she was feeding but with my son, it is different. I felt fulfilled feeding him. At birth, he weighed 2.6kg and by the time we went for his six-week check, he was already 5.2kg – he had already doubled. I really thank God for him because till now, I have had no reason to take him to the hospital. He has not been sick at all, not even nappy rash or temperature. It was stressful but very rewarding.

What part of your body changed during pregnancy that you did not like?

I added weight. It is easy to accumulate weight when one is pregnant but after one gives birth, it is hard to lose it. I have been trying to lose weight but it is not easy.

How would you compare your life before motherhood and now?

I do not regret having children in any way. I am so thankful for them. If they are not around, I am always worried. However sometimes, I wish I had a little freedom. I miss the days when I could do what I wanted but motherhood is a sacrifice. Sometimes, when I am working late, all I think about is that I am doing it for them.

Do you want to have any more children?

When my husband and I got married, we wanted to have three children but for now, it is a grey area. We are not sure at this time.

What lessons has motherhood taught you?

Motherhood has taught me humility. In fact, from the pregnancy stage, I learnt humility. There is a way pregnancy humbles one. Once the children come, as a woman, one will realise that the responsibility falls on one. I have also learnt responsibility. There are some things I have no choice but to do in order to keep my children comfortable. Now, I can overlook anything for the children.

What advice did your mother and other relatives give you when you were pregnant?

There were good and funny ones. The good ones were things like not stressing oneself and taking one’s medical issues seriously. The funny ones were things like not going out at night and to put a safety pin on one’s dress when going out.

What is your advice to expectant mothers?

The word ‘expectant’ is used for a reason. It is not just because of the baby but also because of what is ahead. Being a mother is very interesting and rewarding but it also carries lots of responsibilities. One cannot prepare enough for the arrival of one’s child. One thing that has helped me is prayer. One has to be prayerful as a woman and a mother. It is one thing my husband and I adopted early.

We decided that we wouldn’t only see ourselves as the parents but God also so that any decision we have to make regarding the children will include God. It has been very helpful. One needs to carry God along because there are some things that will happen that will shock one. Every mother needs to be prayerful.

How do you want to raise your children?

Morally, I try to expose them to church activities. I monitor what they watch. I don’t believe that children should be made to conform to traditional gender roles. I believe that children should be raised as individuals. A girl should be able to do male chores and a boy should be able to do female chores. It should be a 360 type of upbringing. Academically, I try to ensure that my children do not just get school education but also other things like music and French. It is when they are little that their brain can take so much so that they can maintain balance when they grow up.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]