Six ways to save money and still have your dream wedding
Although many of us dreamed of our wedding when we were young, we sure wouldn’t have been able to process how much the big day would cost. It’s only after we’ve become adults that the true cost of a wedding really hits home. Going into debt because of a wedding isn’t exactly the most romantic way to start a marriage, so read on for suggestions to help you save money on your wedding:

Don’t overspend on engagement ring

Do what works with your budget and a stone with significance. There is no hard-and-fast rule to buying an engagement ring, so don’t sweat over forking over two months’ salary if both of you can’t afford it. Keep in mind that you have more wedding expenses to battle. Focus more on the significance of the ring instead of the price tag. Perhaps she’ll be happier with an engagement ring that has her birthstone, or maybe she wants a man-made gem or a pre-worn ring with history. There are plenty of wallet-friendly options out there, so don’t limit yourself to the never-been-worn traditional diamond ring!

Pick a house, not a hotel, for your bachelorette party

Rather than shelling out for a hotel room, why not rent a house instead? You’ll have a more cozy, intimate atmosphere, and everyone will be free to come and go as they please – free of any messy, time-sensitive checkout situations.

Only invite to the wedding people who are in your life currently

If you haven’t seen someone in a long, long time, then they can probably be considered for your cut list. (Think childhood friends and old acquaintances.) A good rule of thumb: you should invite the people who know your fiancé, the people who have spent time with you as a couple and those who are playing a part in your present lifestyle.

Cut the guest list by category

Divide your guests into groups: immediate family, closest relatives, extended relatives, family friends, friends, acquaintances, kids, coworkers, etc. Once you’ve both classified your lists, see if you can trim the list by removing entire categories. Maybe you can both nix the young kids, the acquaintances, and the coworkers. Keep going until exceptions start to pop up, and then evaluate each possible guest individually.

• Embrace the digital age for invites

While printed invitations are lovely, the purchase price adds up, especially when factoring in mailing rates. If a simple email invite isn’t your style for anything fancier than a weekend bar night or birthday party, then consider making a personal video to share the wedding details online.

Instead of a wedding planner, get a day-of-wedding coordinator

If you find it hard to organise your wedding without a planner, then consider day-of coordinators, who will make sure your wedding day goes off without a hitch. According to Offbeat Bride, “A good DOC will do quite a bit of troubleshooting for you in the weeks prior to your wedding.”

Source: popsugar.com

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]