Having access to your partner’s social media accounts
DOLAPO AKITOYE examines the suitability or otherwise of allowing one’s partner to have access to one’s social media accounts

Technology has come far and its strides over the years have paved the way for inventions such as social media platforms. With social media, people can connect with others all over the world with speed and ease that were not possible some years ago.

It is also to the credit of technology that credit cards emerged. It is now easier for people to send and receive money with a push of buttons on their mobiles. These inventions have made the quality of lives easier for those that use them.

However, with the benefits that these products provide, people equally believe there is a dark side to them. Social media has provided avenues for things that were hitherto hard to do. For example, social media has made it easier for people to cheat conveniently on their partners.

Some years back, a dating site suffered a significant data breach when users’ data leaked to the public. It was a huge scandal because prior to the episode, the site was popular for being an enabler of extra-marital affairs. The situation led to the leakage of the names of some persons believed to be unfaithful to their partners.

A psychologist, Dr. Val Eze, said the modern world had caused problems for a lot of relationships. He argued that modernity had caused lots of problems to marriages and marital relationships.

“Today, people can access many things on the Internet and these include immoral things which can be stored on the phone. Now, if a person looks at his or her spouse’s phone and sees it, it could cause a lot of issues for the marriage,” Eze stated.

Some couples feel it is vital to allow their spouses have access to their social media accounts while others don’t think it is necessary especially if they desire to save their homes.

A marriage counsellor, Mrs. Adeyinka Adeyege-Akinola, noted that it was important for couples to be open with each other. She said, “I think there should be a great level of transparency between couples which also must not be abused. One needs to be open with one’s spouse to help each other out.”

An entrepreneur, Mr. Dare Renner, told our correspondent that he believed in transparency between partners, saying it would help to build trust among them. He said, “It also helps in building a good and comfortable home for them.”

In a bid to be transparent with their partners, some allow their partners to have unfettered access to their social media accounts.

In her own contribution, Mrs Bola Irabor stated that her husband always allowed her to go through her social media accounts. She added that she also had access to his debit cards, noting that the situation didn’t make her less trusting of him. “Sincerely, I feel it is normal; so, it does not require me to trust him or feel more secure,” Irabor said.

This is the same situation with Ibrahim Haruna. He said, “For social media accounts, my wife has access to mine but I don’t have hers. Also, I have the password to my wife’s debit card and she has for mine. The reason I do not have hers is because I never ask.”

He said it was important to maintain transparency with one’s partner because “one’s partner is one’s next of kin and there is no better person to share one’s secrets with.”

However, Eze is of the view that sharing things with one’s spouse should depend on the kind of person one’s partner is. According to him, there are partners or spouses that can abuse the privilege or information, thus creating problems in the marriage.

He added, “If someone is married to a person who mismanages the information in a social media or bank account, then it is not wise for the person to have access to the accounts.”

While some would readily share certain information with their partners, others could refrain based on certain reasons. One of the latter is Mr. Femi Fumbi. He told SUNDAY PUNCH that he kept his social media accounts from his partner based on “history with her.” Fumbi, who said he was not against married people allowing their partners have access to their social media accounts, stated that there were things that happened in his relationship that prevented him from divulging details of his accounts to his spouse.

Though abuse of information can be the reason some individuals do not allow their spouses have access to their social media accounts, there are those who are just not comfortable sharing such with their partners.

Adeyege-Akinola said the attitude of the latter group could cause some psychological implications in their marriages. She noted that keeping one’s social media accounts from one’s spouse could suggest that there was no unwavering trust in the marriage.

Eze also agreed with Adeyege-Akinola’s position that lack of trust in any marriage could leave the partner with self-esteem issues. He said, “The person might feel like he or she is not good enough for the partner to allow him or her have access to the accounts or information. It can lead to the individuals refraining from daily interactions with their partners. This is because they will have it at the back of their mind that their partners should be suspected and not trusted.”

He added that once one started to suspect one’s spouse, there would not be happiness in the household and if they already had children, it could also affect them.

“In situations like this, trust is very important and it can lead to a breakdown of marriage if trust leaves and suspicion sets in. It is important to a large extent that spouses self-disclose to each other as this will lead to healthier marital relationships,” Eze stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]