Can you marry a widow or widower?
TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN examines the views of some Nigerians on the desirability or otherwise of marrying a widow or widower.

When 28-year-old Onyinye Okoro said she had accepted the marriage proposal of a widower, her mother blew her top.

“God forbid,” Onyinye’s mother said in a manner akin to what some Nigerian mothers would do in such a situation.

All entreaties to convince her mum that the man is God’s choice for her fell on a deaf ear. Onyinye told SUNDAY PUNCH that she and her mother bickered over the matter for months.

She said, “It was a tough battle before my mother gave her consent to the relationship. Thankfully, the marriage plans are ongoing. I have known the man for over a while. Initially, I rejected his proposal. But when I prayed about it, I was convinced he is the right man for me.”

Okoro’s is lucky to win her parents’ approval but this cannot be said of some individuals who are desirous of marrying a widow or widower.

Many believe that marrying a widow or widower is a cross that is too hard to bear because of the complications attached. It is even believed that the issue becomes problematic when the widow or widower already has children.

To show the importance of the issue in the African setting, a commentator on an online forum, Nairaland, got many responses when he wrote, “What are the advantages and the disadvantages of getting married to a widower with children?”

In an interview with our correspondent, a civil servant, Mrs. Eunice Adesola, said marrying a widow or widower was a risky venture.

Adesola stated that she would never allow her daughter to marry a widower because the cause of the death of the former spouse might only be known to the widower.

She added, “I can never allow my child to date not to talk of marrying a widower. Who knows what happened to the first wife. What if she died as a result of spousal abuse?

“Moreover, one cannot be too sure he has recovered from the trauma of losing his first wife. He might be venting the anger of his wife’s death on my child. I don’t pray for my daughter to be involved in such.”

She argued that the idea was not advisable because the man could take advantage of her daughter’s innocence and inexperience.

“I prefer that my daughter starts marriage afresh with someone young without any bad history or experience. They will grow together and learn together in the marriage,” she said.

A father of two, Mr. Felix Ibitayo, contacted that marrying a widow was “more of a curse than a blessing.”

According to him, it is always difficult because the widow or widower may start comparing the new partner with his or her deceased spouse.

The new wife or husband, he argued, might only strive endlessly to fill the vacuum left by the dead partners.

He said, “No. The reason is that it is often very difficult to please such a person. If you treat her right, she will complain and whenever you wrong her, she will always tell you how well her late husband took good care of her.”

The view of a bachelor, Femi John, who is planning to quit the status soon, differs slightly from the position of Adesola and Ibitayo. John said she preferred to start life afresh with someone who had never been married. He, however, noted that he might consider marrying a widow if love “finds me.’’

He added, “I don’t want to and I don’t wish to, but love, at times, is unpredictable. It takes you where you don’t want to go; yet, you won’t regret the journey. Nobody wakes up and prays for a widow/widower as a life partner but along the line, it can happen.”

There are, however, many others who do not have issues with marrying a widow or widower. For them, the fact that a person loses his or her spouse does not mean that should be the end of one’s marital journey.

One of those who share this view is Modupe David. According to her, as long as compatibility is not the problem, she can marry a widower.

“Yes, if the widower is God’s will for my life, then nothing stops me from marrying him and if he is my choice, everyone around me has to accept him too,” David added.

A housewife, Mrs. Bisola Adeniyi, also buttressed the view, saying the Bible endorses marrying a widower or widow.

“As long as the widow or widower is a child of God, there is nothing wrong with marrying them,” she said.

Adeniyi stated that a widower or widow would be more experienced and understand how to treat their new spouses better.

“If it is a widower, there is an advantage because he has been through a marriage before and would know what he wants in a woman. He would probably also handle the relationship well because he would avoid all his previous mistakes (presumably),” she said.

Also, a housewife and a mother of two, Mrs. Layo Ogunjobi, said there was nothing wrong for a young lady to marry a widower, but she warned that precautions should also be taken.

She said, “It is not wrong to marry a widower because he is no longer bound to his former marriage. However, there are certain precautions that should be taken. He should have been considerably healed from the pain of his wife’s demise.

“The effect of not being healed is that the man may have expectations of his late wife from the new woman. He may not treat her as a separate individual and that may lead to crisis. Secondly, he may hold on so much to her late wife’s memories that the new woman may not be able to fit into his life.”

Speaking on the issue, a marriage counsellor, Funmi Daniels, believes understanding is crucial to the success of such a marriage, stressing that marrying a widow or widower is the same as other marriages.

She said, “I won’t say there are advantages or disadvantages because the same principle that applies when getting married to a single person is the same principle you will apply when getting married to a widow or widower. The only difference is if they already have kids; if the kids don’t have issues with you and you feel comfortable adopting them as your kids, there is no problem.

“The key principle is that you understudy the person. Know more about them and ask questions. Interact with their friends and family to know more about them. You really shouldn’t be involved with someone who isn’t emotionally stable.”

Besides, a Professor of Psychology at the University of Lagos, Oni Fagbohungbe, examined the psychological effects of marrying a widow or widower.

He added that such a union had its own advantages and disadvantages like any other type of marriage.

According to him, one of the advantages is that the widow or widower will not want to have a recurrence of their losses; so, they are more careful and committed to making things work out well with their new spouses.

He said, “Widows and widowers are human beings. They have expectations here and there. They will go into a relationship with expectations and such will continue to guide their behaviours in the marriage. And because they wouldn’t want another occurrence of what happened previously, so they try to put in their best to make things work out with their new partner.”

Fagbohungbe said the one of the disadvantages was that they sometimes bring their previous experiences into the marriage which might hurt their new partner.

He said, “But such people are usually desperate; they want to accomplish what they miss from their first marriage, so they become desperate. For example, in a country like ours, where singles are often warned against marrying a widow or widower, the new marriage will be fraught with suspicion and superstition among spouses.

“There is also a case of protecting inheritance for the children from the previous marriage. This is very common among women.”

He added that the widow or widower might find it hard to overcome the trauma of the death of their previous partners except there was assistance from an external source.

Fagboungbe noted that if someone lost one’s partner to natural cause, such a person would be more sensitive and cautious than before.

“There is something we call cognitive dissonance. They cannot completely divorce themselves from the past experience; they still keep everything that has to do with their past,” the don said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]