I want my baby to grow older so I can sleep well — Akinpelu
An entrepreneur, Mrs. Ismat Akinpelu, tells the story of her motherhood

What was your first thought when you found out you were pregnant?

I was initially shocked when I discovered I was pregnant. The thoughts of what to expect in giving birth to a baby as well as the labour pains flooded my mind. At the same time, I was happy to know that I would soon be a mother.

When was your son born?

I gave birth to my son on December 30, 2017. I somehow knew my baby would definitely be born on that day based on how I calculated my expected due date. The night before I gave birth, I began to experience a pinching pain that kept coming and going and getting more painful.

My husband suggested we should go to the hospital that night but I said it was not yet time. Despite the pain, I held myself through the night but I couldn’t sleep till daybreak. Around 7am when I could no longer resist the pain, we left for the hospital. Despite that it wasn’t easy as they always say, it still went well. I was delivered of the boy at exactly 11am. His birth date was two days to the New Year 2018. So, my father named him Abiodun. My labour experience was easy and fast. All thanks to God. I had a normal delivery without complications. My baby was of normal weight.

How did you choose your baby’s name?

We already wrote down the name even before his birth. We selected good names and his Islamic name means “a true servant of Allah.”

Did you enjoy your pregnancy and what was the most difficult part of carrying a baby?

I actually enjoyed my pregnancy but the early stage was hell for me. The first trimester didn’t work out well for me. I was seriously sick that I couldn’t get anything done. My stomach kept rejecting normal foods. I vomited every day and was always weak. Sometimes, I was placed on drips to sustain me. My pregnancy was five month’s old before I regained my health. Carrying a baby is hard work. Pregnancy might deprive you of doing many things. This can be annoying at times.

What types of food were you eating?

At the early stage of pregnancy, I took more of fruits, even though I still threw up. But later, I was able to eat normal African dishes and plenty of vegetables. I still took fruits and water.

Did your baby arrive at the date predicted by your doctor?

My baby didn’t come on the date predicted by the doctors but on the date I calculated myself with the help of a baby app. The doctors gave me 28, 29, 31 of December but I was delivered of the boy on December 30.

Share a funny experience while you were pregnant.

The funny experience I had when I was pregnant was my baby’s movement in the womb. I noticed that whenever I was in the kitchen, he always turned. This also happened whenever I was eating. I even watched the way it moved while watching my belly. It was quite funny.

How did you cope with mood swings during pregnancy?

During pregnancy, my mood was not stable. It was always changing. One day, I could be smiling and cheerful while another day, I might be moody. It was the way my body changed but I was able to cope.

Since becoming a new mother, what has been your most challenging issue?

As a new mother, one of my most challenging times is the fact that I don’t get enough sleep. I have had to endure sleepless nights since the birth of my baby. I have also had to stay awake to breastfeed my baby. The baby takes almost all my time that I sometimes neglect my husband. I am still trying to balance being a good wife and mother.

What lessons has motherhood taught you?

Motherhood has taught me a lot. I have learnt how to nurture and care for a baby. When my baby cries, I know how to soothe and make him sleep which I couldn’t do before. Since I became a mother, I have had to learn many things to make the baby healthy and happy.

What are some things you have observed in taking care of a newborn?

In taking care of a newborn, one has to be careful. One has to be extra clean because the baby’s health is fragile. Babies are very sensitive and get infected with any disease easily; so, mothers and nannies should adopt neatness, especially when preparing baby food and anything that has to go into their mouth. Our babies should also be monitored and given necessary immunisation. Immunisation prevents babies from diseases.

Compare your life before to now that you are a mother.

Being a mother hasn’t really changed me. The only thing is that I can’t go to some places that I visited in the past. Before now, I can go anywhere – be it a party, market and so on – but now, I am restricted because of my baby.

What part of your body changed during pregnancy that you didn’t like?

During pregnancy, no part of my body really changed. The only thing I didn’t like was the swollen leg because I found it painful to wear footwear. Also, my face became swollen at some time, especially during the period of delivery.

What advice did your mother or relatives give you about motherhood that has helped you till date?

The advice I got from relatives about motherhood is to breastfeed my baby very well for it helps bonding between a child and the mother.

Some new mothers are usually overprotective of their children. Is that your case?

Yes! I am very overprotective of my baby. I don’t want anything to harm him. Whenever he cries without reason, I always get worried thinking what the problem might be. I watch anyone who carries him every second to be sure he is fine.

How is your husband coping as a first-time father?

I won’t call my husband a first-time father because he has been in the midst of children before. He has played the role of a father many times.

How many hours of sleep do you get at night?

Sincerely, I have not had enough sleep since I gave birth. He wakes up every two hours or less to eat. What I am told is that he will change. I can’t wait for him to grow older so I can sleep well. Two hours of sleep at night is the much I have got.

What would you have loved to do differently while you were pregnant?

If I could return to being pregnant, I would change my time out. I will love to stay indoors as soon as its 7pm instead of keeping late night.

Teething in children comes with many issues. Share your experience on this in taking care of your child.

My baby is just moving into the stage of teething. He is currently four months old and he has started the process. We have introduced teething remedy to ease his pain. I learnt the period is tough for babies and it really does disturb them. I wouldn’t want it to weigh my baby down. Finding out the reasons why a baby cries is sometimes difficult.

Apart from being hungry whenever my baby cries, I usually wondered what the problem might be. I usually do everything to ensure that he is fine but he still won’t stop crying. This might be annoying. When my baby cries at times, it could be that he is feeling too hot or his diaper might be wet or he has defecated. One only has to keep consoling him.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]