Marry a wife who understands nature of your work — Jimi Solanke
Veteran folk singer and storyteller, Jimi Solanke, shares what fatherhood has taught him with OLUSHOLA RICKETTS

What does fatherhood mean to you?

It is a position of responsibility that a man begins to work on once he marries a woman because you will eventually become a father. For me, the moment your wife gets pregnant, it is better to start communicating with your unborn baby. I tried this with all my children. When you do that, they will quickly recognise your voice and know who you are to them.

Fatherhood is a very important role and when you play it well, you don’t have reasons to be worried about your children when they grow up. You need to see messages sent to me on Father’s Day by my children. After reading and digesting them, I felt very pleased that I am a father that is accepted and respected by his children.

How did you feel when your first child was born?

My first child is a girl. When my first child was born, I was a bit confused because I didn’t know exactly where to go or what to do. The mother and I were in the dark.

When you visit the hospital during your wife’s pregnancy, the matrons will tell her things to consume and what not to. As a father too, you will not want to eat what they said your wife should not eat or do what they said she should not do.

Did you wish your first child came as a boy?

I had understood that a child was a child regardless of the sex before I started having kids. I named a track on my newly-released children’s album, ‘Gbogbo L’omo’, which means a child is a child. I have never been a man who believed that if I didn’t have a son, it was a terrible thing.

As a matter of fact, I see my girls as strong human beings. I have always believed that we all have responsibilities on earth, which explains why we are created in different ways. But I have male children also. One of my boys just returned to Lagos after he spent Father’s Day with me.

How many children are you blessed with?

I have 10 children. At home, between my wife and me, we have four children. My late first wife had three children for me. While I was in the United States of America, I had a wife who bore me a girl. Also, late night jobs as a singer with women always around me, that gave me another two children.

How do you take care of your 10 children?

I shouldn’t have problems taking care of my children since I love them and I know they are mine. Once you have decided to be a responsible father, you don’t need to be a billionaire to have children.

Were you apprehensive when you wanted to get married?

By the time I finally got married to the woman I am with now, I have had enough experience with women. My union with the first woman, who had my first three kids, was short-lived. The relationship was ended prematurely by her parents, who felt since I was an artist, I would be irresponsible. I eventually took my children from them and moved on. When I travelled out of the country, I left my children with my father in my hometown and they were fine.

Why did it take you a while to finally settle down?

By the time it dawned on me that I was rejected, I was not interested in having any serious relationship with any woman. At a time, I didn’t want to have a wife or children any longer because I felt I had three children already. I kept running away from every relationship and this continued until I grew beyond the ‘regular’ age of marriage.

When I travelled to the US, I felt getting married there would be better and I got married to Elizabeth. But I later found out that she was not the kind of woman I wanted.

By the time I came back to Nigeria and was employed at the Dramatic Arts Department, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, I gave up on marriage. But I met a woman, who I became attached to and I got married. We have been married for 40 years now. Her mother knew me well and I was ready to be a father as well as husband to her. Though I am certain God has a hand in our union, I respect her a lot too. She makes food for me and ensures the house is in order. She does all these with passion.

Did you witness the birth of any of your children?

Yes, I did. It was a traumatic experience, I must say. A father who witnesses such will respect the woman forever. The man will want to shower the woman with love, care and other good things of life. When she annoys you, you will not even think of it.

I respect women for what they go through while giving birth. It is highly dangerous and painful. I think all men need to experience what they go through in the labour room so that they will respect women more. Women are stronger than men and more painstaking than men too. Their job on earth is very important, especially in the area of making children.

How did you combine your career with fatherly roles?

When I had shows in Lagos, my wife always came along with our baby. Most of my children passed through this experience. It was easy to leave them with their mother when they grew up, but I was always afraid to leave my baby and mother all alone. People who know me well in Lagos must still remember that I did this many times with my children. Also, it is very important for one to marry a wife who knows the nature of the job you do. My wife also studied dramatic arts.

Did you use the cane on your children while they were growing up?

Like I said earlier on, you should start communicating with your children from the womb. I never used the cane on any of my children. Once we looked at each other, they understood what I expected them to do. My wife does not believe in whipping children too.

When you let your children know everything about life, you will have very little to worry about. But once there is a gap between a father and his children, problems will come. It is the lack of trust that disrupts smooth communication between parents and their children.

How did you reward their good deeds?

In my house in those days, each day was a children’s party. Many children in my neighbourhood loved to come to my house and most of them grew up calling me daddy.

What has been your biggest challenge as a father?

In my first marriage, I felt rejected. Then, people didn’t accept artists as they are accepted now. As a father, I was not even allowed to take care of my children and it was a major challenge for me then. Now, once you are a good artist and becomes popular, respect comes with it. But despite all I went through, I was still strong and remained who I wanted to be. I didn’t allow such challenge to nail me to the cross and made me change who I am. I am now happy; all my children have graduated and working.

When was your happiest moment as a father?

My children have done lots of great things. I also see growth in their career and lives. I am a grandfather now. Having children has been a bundle of joy from God and I celebrate them every day individually. I don’t single out one child; all of them are great and I have a direct connection with each of them. They are also unique human beings.

Did you try to encourage them to venture into entertainment?

I didn’t force any of my children to do what I do. I would have been like my father, who wanted me to be an engineer when all I wanted to be was a singer and actor.

However, my daughter, who lives in the US, has a doctorate in theatre arts. I didn’t try to influence her. Another daughter of mine, who is married and lives in England, is also a very good singer. I featured her in the new children’s album where she sang the chorus. I didn’t force her to be a singer as well.

All fingers are not equal and I cannot cut some fingers so that they can all be equal. I allow my children to choose their professions, advise them and encourage them to be better human beings. For instance, I am not a film-maker but the baby of the house is into film production and technology.

Tell us about your latest album for children?

My new album, Hidden Gold, is for children but parents are listening to it also. It was presented this year in Abuja on Children’s Day, May 27.

One of my daughters told me on Father’s Day that she was happy to be the daughter of a father, who is a father to millions of children all over the world. I love children and I don’t care if they are mine or not. I have been like that since I came into the profession. I love singing and doing television programmes for children.

What do your children tease you about?

They all have different ways of teasing me. The eldest boy calls me his younger brother simply because he looks like my father and has a twin sister. He has attributes that surpass me as a human being. Recently, one of my daughters called me and addressed me as her boyfriend before wishing me happy Father’s Day. She is married.

How do you describe your late father?

My father was very strict and it was the reason we disagreed. I wanted to be an artist, but he was determined to change my mind. When he told his cousin that he wanted me to study printing engineering at his place in Ibadan, he didn’t tell me. He put me on a bus going to Ibadan, Oyo State, with some people and I found myself in my uncle’s place. While working there, all my fingernails would be dirty and I didn’t like it. But I had the freedom to go out and sing with bands.

Since I was always awake at night, I slept in the morning at work. That was how I left the place. By the time he found out what I did, he was angry and his friends asked him to send me out of his house. He did and I gained total freedom to be an “Ibadan boy.” I began staying alone, writing songs and started doing everything that led to the Jimi Solanke of today. It was later in life that my father and I became friends.

What did you learn from your father that helped you in training your children?

I refused to be stubborn about taking decisions with my children about them. I allow them to discuss what they want and ensure it is okay by them. That is the only way you can get the best from children, especially in the age where children are exposed to social media. With a phone, there is nothing a child cannot access. You cannot try to control your children because today’s world does not agree with such.

What is your advice to aspiring fathers?

I advise them to be part of fatherhood from the beginning. If you leave your wife to do things all alone, you are not a father. You should not shame her because her body has changed. Who made her change? If you go to the labour room with her and you come out, it will make you respect every woman in the world.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]