My son has drastically reduced my visits to the cinema — Onasanya
An entrepreneur, Olarenwaju Onasanya, shares her experience as a nursing mother with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN

What is your son’s name?

His name is Oluwademilade Jeremy Onasanya. Most people call him King D because that’s the nickname his father gave him.

Is there any special reason for the name?

While my husband and I were courting, we talked about the names we would give our children. So when I gave birth to him, we already had the names ready.

When was he born?

He was born on September 29, 2017. I had scheduled caesarean section; so, I was at the hospital earlier than that day. After 10pm on the day preceding his birth, I wasn’t allowed to eat anything again.

Early on Friday morning, a very nice nurse came to prepare me for the procedure and at about 7.30am, I went to theatre. At 7.42am, my baby was out. It went very smooth. I didn’t feel any pain during the surgery. It was some hours after that I started to feel pains which later subsided after taking pain killers. Recovery for me was fast but I felt pain for a while till I fully recovered.

Is he your first child?

Yes, he is my first child.

What were your fears during pregnancy?

I had some fears before I got pregnant because I am rhesus negative. I was scared that my blood could mix with my baby’s blood. Also, I didn’t know what to expect. I had heard people experience miscarriages; I was extra careful because of fear. Fear of miscarriage is common among most pregnant women. But when I spoke to other positive minded women about it, they explained some things to me and I felt better. That is one good thing one should learn to do. One should surround oneself with positive people. They will help one fight one’s fears and battles easily.

Did he inherit your blood type?

No, he has his father’s blood type.

Which relative was with you during labour?

My husband was with me. He was allowed in theatre, aside from the fact that he requested to be there with me. He is also in the medical line.

Do you think some things about delivery are exaggerated?

Owing to the fact that I had a scheduled caesarean section, I made enquiries about the procedure from my friends who had experienced same and it was entirely the same process. The only thing that was not the same was the healing period. For me, I was able to eat the second day of the surgery. I also healed faster than I was told.

How was the experience for you having your first child through caesarean section?

It was smooth being a scheduled surgery. I had enough time to prepare. I won’t deny the fact that I was afraid because I had never done a surgery before. I didn’t know what it was going to be like.

Fortunately for me, I met a friend in my ward who was also scheduled for the same process but hers was five days earlier. I asked her questions. I also watched her after the surgery, to learn and prepare my mind.

What is the hardest thing for you as a first-time mother?

The hardest thing about being a mother for me is having to push things aside or delay house chores because I have to take care of my son. Before I became a mother, there was a way I did my things. But now, I read, do house chores and other things when he is asleep.

Also, another thing is the sleep aspect. I can’t remember when I last slept well since I had him. In fact, there was a time I wasn’t feeling well. The fact that I needed rest didn’t change the fact that I had to wake up several times at night to feed him.

How did you prepare for labour?

I prepared with antenatal classes and I never missed any of them. I also made sure I asked questions when I wasn’t clear about some of the things taught. I also read a few books and browsed the Internet to know about the experiences of other women as a newcomer. All these things prepared me adequately for my session.

What do you miss the most about pre-motherhood stage?

I miss a lot of things. First, I miss my sleep; I really want to sleep well. I miss my time and my space. I miss not having the time to do activities that I love doing like reading, writing and house cleaning. I also love the cinema and I still visit sometimes but doing that has reduced drastically. All these things are the sacrifices that being a mother demands. Motherhood is sacrificial, I must confess. You have to put others, especially your children, first before your own needs and demands.

How did you feel when you held your son for the first time?

When I first saw him, I smiled and the joy that filled my heart could not be compared to any other feeling. When I held him, I quietly said to myself, “Is he really mine?” It felt like a dream. It was indeed a dream come true.

How do you combine being a mother and a wife with your work?

Managing my work with motherhood is one thing I like to talk about. Yes, things have changed but I still do what I do. I quit my corporate job before I had him and I committed my time fully to the non-governmental organisation I run. Now that my son is here, we go everywhere together; office and to execute projects at the orphanage homes within and outside my locality. I carry him to conferences and other places. It’s not easy. But I am getting used to it and loving it.

Being a mother and a wife is easy when you have a very supportive spouse. My husband makes it easy for me to do both. I am not saying it is easy for me, but he helps me and I help him too.

Most times when I want to cook, and Demilade isn’t sleeping, my husband helps to take care of him, and other things that I need to do to take care of my husband.

We still go on movie dates; we still dance, and we still hang out with friends. For me to balance that, I need an understanding spouse who is committed to his family and I have one.

Do you have a maid or relative helping you?

Some weeks before I gave birth, my younger sister came to live with us. She left not long ago when she had to go for the National Youth Service Corps scheme. My mother was also very close to me throughout. She visited every day. My husband’s mother, who I refer to as my mother-in-love, stayed with us also for about two months. I had plenty of help and support around me.

Was there a shift of attention from your husband to your child?

Sometimes, there is, but not an extreme shift. It is just a slight shift that is understandable. For example, when my husband and I have to be together and our son is in the way, I have to find a way to lull him to sleep. There was a time our son wasn’t feeling well, I gave attention to him. That might be a shift but my husband understands because he is our son and not my son.

What is your advice to aspiring mothers?

To those who are yet pregnant, I would say, put your mind at rest, everything you desire will be yours. Don’t be anxious, eat well, rest well and get away from anything that makes you worry. When you do all of this, what you are looking for will find you. To the pregnant women, I would advise that you get all the good books on pregnancy, labour, breastfeeding, caring for your babies and family planning. You can go online to read about the topics, especially breastfeeding.

It’s easy to carry a child when pregnant than to nurse a child. This is because it takes commitment, patience, discipline and love to nurse and train a child. I pray that God will crown all our efforts with good success.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]