Dad’s words, looks enough to keep us in line —Nnimmo Bassey’s son
Otoabasi is one of the children of environmental activist, writer and poet, Nnimmo Bassey. He talks about his father with GBENGA ADENIJI

Briefly tell us about yourself.

I am a brand strategist, graphic designer and writer. I work with non-governmental organisations and start-ups in various capacities, helping them to clarify their messages and communicate compellingly. I am based in South Africa.

Is any of your siblings an architect or environmental activist?

I actually studied architecture in the university, and that gave me a design foundation that I took with me into the field of graphic design and branding. My immediate younger brother, Daramfon, studied international relations/security, while my youngest brother, Ukpono, is studying to be an economist. Daramfon works with an NGO/social enterprise working on making renewable energy more available in Nigeria.

Did your father encourage any of his children to follow in his career path?

Not particularly. He always encouraged us to do whatever we were interested in and be diligent to excel in it.

What are your childhood memories with your father?

One of them is going to church. Our early morning drives to first service on Sunday were often full of interesting conversations. And afterwards, we would have pounded yam with afiaefere (white soup) prepared by my mother. It still remains a delicious meal after church ritual.

How does he create time for his family considering his busy schedule?

My father travels a lot, and we are hardly ever all in the same country at the same time. We keep in touch via messages and phone calls, and we are together on special occasions. When he is home, he is really at home and keeps indoors. We have regular time every morning and evening for family Bible Study and spiritual reflections and these offer unique moments for sharing of wisdom and guidance. Whenever he is in South Africa, and that is fairly often, we always find time to meet – no matter how brief. In recent times, our family WhatsApp group also keeps everyone in the loop.

How does your father discipline any child who acts up?

I don’t remember my father ever beating me. A look and a word from him were enough to keep us in line.

The one time I do remember getting a lashing, it was my mother who administered the punishment. I don’t remember the particular offence; just that it only happened once.

How does he relax?

He hangs out with the family and reads a lot of books simultaneously. He has books in different places; in the house and even in the restroom.

Where are the places he took his family to for bonding?

Every New Year, after church, we head to a hotel or eatery in Benin City and have the first lunch of the year together as a family. Those are always fond memories. He has also taken the family on yearly vacations to Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, and also outside the country to places like South Africa, The Gambia and so on.

What is his favourite food?

Eba with okra soup is his favourite dish. He also loves to drink tea, even though for some reasons, he never actually finishes the cup of tea as my mother is always quick to point out.

What kind of father is he?

He is patient, very measured with his words and gives us the freedom to explore and be ourselves. He is very supportive and offers lots of wisdom.

How would you describe his reading habit and the kind of books he enjoys reading?

He reads a lot of books. The books he loves reading are usually around the themes of spirituality, environmentalism, leadership and so on. He has always read across a wide spectrum and joked that if you went into his hostel room as a student, you couldn’t guess what he was studying because he had many books on various topics. We have a large library of books at home.

How does his name open doors for you when people know you are his child?

Well, the respect does filter down as people are eager to help and to connect. A lot of people love and respect my father and for good reasons. As much as there are the open doors, there is also the responsibility of living up to that.

Your father is a published poet. Do you write poems too?

I wrote poetry in my childhood and teenage years, mostly as a form of self-expression and for personal catharsis. Now, I mostly write essays and maintain a blog, and I can trace that to being inspired to write as a child, because I grew up surrounded by art and literature.

What have you learnt from his advocacy for safe environment?

Many of the human rights violations that exist have their roots in environmental abuse and violation. We only have one earth and as such, we must respect and be proper stewards of her and her resources. We can be as unscrupulous as we want, but if we are not careful, mother nature will have the last laugh.

Your father is an accomplished environmental activist, author and poet. Which of his areas of specialisation are you interested in and why?

I am interested in his work with the environment. Not directly with the activism, but with the knowledge that the environment is the basis for everything we do, whether we realise it or not, and no matter what we do, or what career we pursue, we can all play a part in considering the environment, healing it and making better use of our resources.

Would you have wished he were anything else but an architect and environmental activist?

No. His work as an architect and as an environmental activist is inspiring and he has made a great impact doing what he does.

Why values have you imbibed from him?

The most important value in my opinion I have imbibed from him is the need to live with purpose, to do something that is not merely respectable or valued, but something that is intrinsically meaningful and important. He actively works for the greater good, and he does what he is passionate about. Even if he didn’t have the accolades he has now, he would still be tirelessly toiling to give voice to the voiceless.

I have also imbibed the value of seeking wisdom, of being humble, and kind, and being hard-working and diligent.

What songs does he listen to?

Bob Marley, Asa and gospel music. He loves anything with a great tune and an uplifting message.

How does he like to dress?

He loves to appear smart and casual with African shirts, especially those Mandela shirts. I saw my parents’ traditional marriage photos and saw that he wore adire.

How do you feel being his son?

Incredibly proud! My father is one of the greatest people I know, not just for the things he has done and accomplished, but precisely for the kind of person he is. He has always been a phenomenal example and inspiration to me.

Your father continues to live for public good even at 60. What are you most proud of about him?

I am most proud that he does what he loves and follows his passion. I am proud that he is devoted to public good. In a time where many prominent people are in it for the money or the fame, he is someone who really genuinely cares.

What does he tell you about Nigeria’s attitude and policy on nature and preservation of the environment?

Nigeria’s attitude to environment. He believes that the Nigerian environment could be the key to building a truly national identity. Every section of the country has peculiar environmental challenges, and all share some common threats. Desertification in the North and sea level rise in the South are all traceable to climate change. The conflicts between herders and farmers can also be traced to environmental changes. Deforestation, massive oil pollution in the Niger Delta – all three point to the lack of investment in environmental education and care. A lot needs to be done. If that happens, many of the conflicts in the country would become a thing of the past. For a people that still depend largely on the gifts of nature, a sanitised environment will rebuild livelihoods and hope.

With his dogged dedication to the environment, how does he reflect this in his habitation?

He and my mother designed and built our home in Benin City. They are both architects. By design, they ensured adequate shade and natural ventilation. The walls are of a special sort of adobe and isn’t plastered or painted externally. They are conscious of energy use and depend largely on solar power to escape the erratic public power supply. Our home does not sit on a particularly big piece of land, but it is full of natural elements, flowers, trees and a vegetable garden.

Who are your father’s friends?

He has some friends from his university days as well as some that are ministers at church. Apart from that, with so many comrades around the world, sometimes it feels like everyone is his friend!

What particular books appeal to him since he has a rich library and also an author?

His favourite authors of fiction are Festus Iyayi and Ngugi Wa’Thiongo. He also reads a lot of books in the biographical and socio-economic cum ecological areas. I can name a few of the many authors: Frantz Fanon, Chinweizu, Walter Rodney and the Uruguayan writer-philosopher, Eduardo Galeano whose book, The Open Veins of Latin America, made a lot of impact on him. Needless to add, he reads a wide range of Christian religious books.

How close are you to him?

We were fairly close in my younger days, but over the years, the nature of our relationship has evolved, and we are getting better at understanding each other not just as father and son, but as individuals. The older I get, the more I understand him as a person, and recognise a lot of his traits in myself. Like with books, I’m usually busy with at least three books at the same time, and we often share and recommend books to each other.

What advice does he give about life and relationship?

He often quotes a line from the US writer, Samuel Langhorne Clemens, otherwise known by his pen name, Mark Twain, which urges us never to allow our schooling negatively disrupt our education. And, of course, he urges me and my siblings to keep God first and everything else will fall into place.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]