When your partner has a bad habit
As humans, it is natural to be irritated by your partner’s habit especially if it becomes a problem. However, there are ways to help your partner deal with these issues without being offensive. Here are a few tips on how to deal with the bad habit

Find out if the habit is part of their personality

Firstly, find out if your partner’s habit is simply a repeated behaviour or his or her reaction to something. Always remember that there’s a difference between a habit that is a routine and a behaviour that reflects something about your partner’s personality. Talk about these habits with your partner and look for creative way to rectify it.

Take it slow

It won’t be easy to change your partner’s bad habit in a day or a week. You need to be more patient and point out one bad habit at a time. Each time your partner behaves badly, let him or her know immediately and what to do.

Pick your battles

Choose which of your spouse habit that is worth tackling. The choice is less about the actual behaviour and more about what it is you are willing to let go. For instance, one person may find it annoying when the house is untidy while another person may not be bothered by it. Ask yourself why you find this behaviour annoying and whether you can learn to accommodate it because expecting your partner to drop every habit that you find frustrating is unrealistic.

Lose the idea of fairness

According to www.canadianliving.com, try not to get preoccupied with the idea of fairness when it comes to dealing with bad habit. If there are household tasks that your partner has made a habit of avoiding, rather than making them feel bad about it; figure out how to allocate responsibilities so that no one feels taken advantage of.

Be diplomatic

It is important to be reasonable when pointing out to your partner that something about his or her behaviour irritates you. Remember that avoiding the discussion of your partner’s bad habit will make it difficult for him or her to understand why it bothers you. Speak to your partner about how his or her behaviour affects you and they will more likely want to change. The more you and your partner can talk about the things that cause tension in your relationship, the easier it will be to move past any issues that arise.

Recognise your own annoying habit

We all have our own bad habit and once you have tackled your spouse’s frustrating habit, it’s time to think about your own. Recognise your own bad habit and be open about it. It is important to acknowledge when your partner accommodates habit of yours that might be considered irritating to him or her too. Sometimes, that is all it takes to make an annoying habit bearable. As with most issues that come up in a relationship, communication is the key to working toward a compromise.

Celebrate milestones

Applying to much unnecessary pressure could have the opposite effect on your partner’s moral. So, it is important to celebrate your partner’s accomplishments even the small ones because it can help them track their progress and make them feel good about themselves. It will also motivate your partner to reach the next goal.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]