Motherhood has taught me to overlook many things –Akande
An entrepreneur, Mrs. Folashade Akande, shares her motherhood experience with DOLAPO AKITOYE

When did you give birth to your daughter?

She was born on April 24, 2018 at 6.35pm.

Is this your first child?

No, this is my third child.

Describe your labour experience.

The night before, I started feeling pains in my lower abdomen and when I went to the toilet, I saw blood and a little discharge. I started to feel like I was about to give birth; so, I went to the maternity home. When I got there, I was tested and told that the baby was going to come but not yet. They told me that I could still go back home. The next day, I was still feeling the pains and it got worse that afternoon.

I went back to the maternity and by then, the pain had gotten really bad. When I got there, the lady who attended to me told me to rest and by 6pm, when she came to test me, she could see the baby’s head. She told me to get things ready really quickly and by 6.35pm, I gave birth.

How would you compare the experience with the previous ones?

With my first child, I didn’t experience this and I went into labour about two weeks earlier than the expected due date and the pain was horrendous. The second baby was the easiest one for me.

I went to the place where I registered when I started feeling pains but I was told to return home. In the middle of the night, I started feeling stomach pains again and I was even thinking that I would manage till the morning before I went back to the place. But God had other plans because around 2am, I gave birth on the floor in my home.

Was your husband with you when you were delivered of your new baby?

Actually, when I left the house to go to the maternity, my children were on their way back from school and I did not want them to be worried. I just wanted them to think that I had just gone out to do something else. My husband was with them at home. He actually came earlier, but he could not bear it.

What was your baby’s weight at birth?

She was 2.5 kg.

Did you have a gender preference before the baby was born?

Well, I already have a boy and a girl; so, I was going to be fine with whatever God gave me. However, I would have preferred to have a boy.

How did you know you were pregnant?

I had travelled and after I had missed my period for two days, I realised I was pregnant.

Did you enjoy your pregnancy?

Yes. This baby is wonderful. I really enjoyed my pregnancy.

What were your cravings during pregnancy?

Well, at the early stage, the thing that I loved to eat was hot pap and milk.

Did the baby arrive on the expected due date?

No. She arrived earlier than that. She was expected to arrive in the first week of May but she came in late April.

How did you choose your baby’s name?

My husband gave the baby her name.

How have you been able to handle a new baby in addition to taking care of your other children, husband, home and business?

For now, I had to stop running my business. I stopped working when I was about eight months pregnant. In regards to the baby, my husband has been very helpful.

What has been the most challenging task since you gave birth?

The most challenging task has been waking up constantly in the middle of the night. That is not really a fun experience.

What pregnancy symptom didn’t you enjoy?

I did not like the stomach pains at all.

Did you experience mood swings when you were pregnant?

No, I was always very friendly and happy.

How has it been taking care of your new baby and your other children?

When I had my first child, that was all I cared about. I only had to take care of the baby. However, now, I have to take care of two children in addition to taking care of the new one. I have to get them ready for school and also prepare the food that they will take with them. It is very stressful.

How has your husband been helping?

If I do not wake up early, he helps me bath the children. Then, he also helps a lot during the night. He always feels bad when he hears the baby crying and always wants to make her feel better.

Have you started breastfeeding?

Yes. I did for all my children and I am used to it.

What lessons has motherhood taught you?

Motherhood has taught me to be patient and calm. I am also more vocal now because I have to discipline my children.

What advice would you give to other mothers?

My advice to them would be to take care of their husbands and their children and to love them.

What advice did your mother and other relatives give you when you were pregnant?

To be honest, I did not tell my mother that I was pregnant because she gets very scared and I did not want to give her hypertension. However, my mother-in-law knew and she was constantly praying for me especially because my mother lives in Abuja.

What advice would you give expectant mothers?

My advice is that they should be careful and go for ante-natal. They should also let those that are taking care of them – doctors, nurses – be aware of any complaints they have so that they and their babies will be fine.

How would you compare your life before motherhood and now?

Motherhood made me more responsible. Now, I also overlook many things that I would not have before. There were things I would be very sensitive to before but now, I do not take them to heart anymore and I love that.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]