Dealing with communication breakdown
One of the most important and unspoken things that everybody in a relationship expects from his or her partner is communication. Here are some ways to resolve a communication breakdown

Agree on a set of house rules.

According to www.inspiringtips.com, you and your partner should decide on what to expect from each other and how you want to channel your opinions in case you stumble upon difficult issues. This may sound too technical at first, as this is not commonly practised, but it helps a lot. By setting a house rule for your relationship, you learn more about each other’s thoughts and opinions, both as partners and as individuals. And if you love each other, you will be able to exercise respect towards these rules, as you have jointly agreed to commit to them.

Listen

Practice makes perfect. If you notice that there is a communication breakdown in your relationship, speak to your spouse and when your partner is talking, focus all your energy on what is being said. Wait until your partner has finished talking before you respond. If you are prone to interrupt when he or she is speaking, try not to interrupt.

Talk about your aspirations

If your partner feels intimidated by your expectations from them, then, it will be wise to convey your expectations in a rather sugar-coated manner. You may open up the discussion about what you are expecting from each other in the form of sharing your aspirations. It is because your partner wants to feel involved as much as you do, and sharing these aspirations allows them to be more motivated in contributing to the relationship. Communicating via technological devices may be very convenient, but at the same time, they are limiting in terms of the quality of your conversation with your partner. So, if you want to discuss serious matters that require a solid communication line, do it face-to-face.

Apply maximum tolerance

When you are in a relationship, it doesn’t mean that you two already know each other; and that you only have to focus on what you are sharing together. You should keep in mind that even if you are already married, you two are still living separate, individual lives. And this is where maximum tolerance comes to play.

Don’t start a conversation with a nag

We all want to be wooed. We all want our partners to make us feel loved, adored, and shower us with sweetness. And we want to feel this more when we are facing a problem as a couple. When you and your partner are dealing with a certain situation, it is bad for you to begin the argument with a nag. You are starting to feel frustrated by how things are going, but pressing for your solution is not the way to go. Your partner will easily break and feel useless.

Always be sensitive to each other’s feelings

Breakups often happen because the people involved in the relationship are no longer sensitive of each other’s feelings. They prioritise their own welfare and tend to solve problems on their own instead of doing it as a couple. They also begin to keep things secret from each other, just to keep everything as nice and dainty as they seem. However, this tragedy can be easily avoided if you two are sensitive of each other’s feelings. This means you make it a point to acknowledge each other’s emotions, opinion and proposed solutions towards a problem. No matter how easy or difficult it is to solve, being more sensitive would make it easier to talk things through. Come up with a decision and resolve whatever issue you are dealing with as a couple.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]