My children bring their maths assignments to mock me — Obazele
Nollywood actor, Paul Obazele, shares what fatherhood has taught him with OLUSHOLA RICKETTS

How do you describe fatherhood?

Fatherhood is the beauty of what God created. I will describe my life as a father as exciting and challenging. It can be related to a journey into a cave where you don’t know what awaits you at the end of the tunnel. There will be fear, suspense and anxiety. But once you are told how the end of the cave looks like, it will not be exciting any longer. That is fatherhood; it is sweet, bitter and joyous.

Whether you like it or not, there is a stage in your life where things are dry and tough, but your children don’t know because they see you as a superman who finds solution to anything. They expect much from me. As big as they are, they tell me to carry them. They think I go to the gym and I have muscle.

What have been your challenges as a father?

I have had my ups and downs or strange moments as a father. I have come back from work and found out that one of my children was running temperature abnormally. When I left in the morning, everything was okay; everyone was playing and smiling. It was already late when I discovered and I started thinking about what could be wrong.

When one’s child is ill, everything that flies around him or her is a suspect, including mosquitoes.

How many children are you blessed with?

I have boys. We don’t count children from the place I come from, but I have a large family. I am a traditionalist and I respect culture a lot. I will never neglect such a thing.

Do you use the cane on your children?

The Bible says spare the rod, spoil the child. I must conform with what the Bible says. I am a great daddy, but if a child does wrong, I will spank him or her. If I don’t beat the child, I will spoil the child. I will also ensure that the child does not have access to those things the child needs. When the school is in session, I don’t allow my kids to go near the television set. But for holidays, I give them 10 days to see whatever they want to see. After that duration, their tutorials begin.

But despite my strict rules, I am friendly with them. Sometimes, I cook for them. Last Friday, my son followed me to the gym. When he told me I should wake him up in the morning, I thought he was joking. After exercising with me, I heard him telling his mother that he would never go for a workout with me again. When my wife asked me what I did to him, I told her to ask him.

He is also reading the other side of the script I am holding as the interview is on. That is the level of intimacy we share.

What do they tease you about?

They know I don’t like attending to their maths assignments. At 7pm, if I am not working, you will see me in my pyjamas at home. Once I am seated, they will jump at me and bring their assignments. At that point, I know they want to make mockery of me. I will direct them to their mother since that is her specialisation. But it is fun being with my kids. Whenever I am alone, I hear their voices.

Don’t you wish for a girl child?

I think of it occasionally, but it is all about one’s agreement with God. I have always said I wanted boys, but my last child should be a girl. I told God the number of children I wanted and he is doing exactly that.

Sometimes, I wish I don’t I have a girl child for the fear of heartbreak because I will punch any man who breaks my daughter’s heart. What I see today is frightening, but children are a gift from God and they make life interesting.

If you want to have well-behaved children, you must spend time with them because it is what they see, they grow up to be. If you fear God and you apply it to all the things you do, your children will grow up with the fear of God. And if you are the type who comes home drunk every day and turns your wife into a punching bag, you are creating monsters. Whenever I ask my son why he is in the kitchen, he tells me that he sees me in the kitchen too.

How did you meet your wife?

Meeting my wife was divine. Chico Ejiro (a filmmaker) and I have always been good friends. After finishing a job for Ejiro, he gave me a post-dated cheque, and I did not know.

I got to the bank in Ikeja, Lagos, with the confidence that I would go home with money, but they refused to pay me. They later referred me to the operations manager, who I was familiar with. I walked in gallantly. I was shocked when I saw a lady. She realised I was a celebrity but it did not make her pay me that day. She even boasted that she was ready to gift me money. I found it insulting even though I didn’t have any money to go home. I had to call my friends to rescue me.

I was annoyed that day. I spoke with my other friends in the bank and they told me she was brought in from the headquarters. I got her contact and I was on a mission to just sleep with her and dump her, but it did not happen. I later saw a different and principled woman.

To cut the long story short, I became a good friend with this female banker, but the idea of using and dumping her disappeared. Whenever I invited her to hangout, she would tell me she must get home at 7.30pm. She would come to the house and play with my elder sister’s children. The friendship became strong; we neither kissed nor hugged. She knew all the other girls in my life. After like eight months of friendship, I told her to marry me. She first didn’t think I was serious. When she said yes, we did our introduction two weeks later. We have been married for 17 years.

Was there fear at the time you wanted to start a family?

I have always believed in bonding with my kids. For instance, my son wears my shoes and I get excited about it. I look for my shirts many times too and I don’t see them. I wanted a situation where I would not be too old for them and they would not be too young for me. The only time you will notice they are young kids is when they talk.

At what age did you marry?

Was it early? I don’t think so. I am not a young man.

Were you in the hospital during the birth of your first child?

I was not there when my first child came to the world. I was airborne when my wife was delivered of the baby. I was headed to London while my wife gave birth to our son in the US. It even took me two weeks before I set my eyes on him. But when I saw him, I saw my little self. While he was little, he was always on my chest.

Were you apprehensive when you heard your wife was about to give birth?

I did not nurse such a feeling. It depends on what you have told your God. The truth is humans are very impatient when we ask God for something.

How do you combine work with your responsibilities as a father?

My sons are my biggest critics. They know when I am working and they know what I am doing at any moment. But I try as much as possible not to influence them in deciding what they want to be in life. However, I always tell them that to be influential and important in life, they must read their books and follow the path of Christ.

Do you see them pursuing a career in entertainment?

I did not know I would follow this path, but unfortunately, I am born into a broadcasting home. I cannot tell what would become of them, but it will be a thing of joy if they take after me. There are signs; one plays the keyboard while the other is an artist. And whenever they visit their cousins, I am aware that they act.

How do you reward them whenever they impress you?

I always tell them that once they surpass their performances each session, they get something new from me and I have kept to it. It can be any gadget. My son, who just finished junior secondary school, told me he wanted HP laptop and I got it for him.

I also ask them what they want for their birthdays. At times, they would tell us to leave the house for their birthday celebrations, but I always asked their mother to stay around to supervise things.

How would you advise aspiring fathers?

If you have a relationship with God, there is no need to be scared of anything. A child will come and the resources you need to take care of him or her will be provided too. Children are a blessing; so, it is not possible for God to make them suffer.

Do you think children without fathers have a chance of making it in life?

There is no child that is a mistake. The reason a child came to this world must be fulfilled regardless of the calamity that befell him. I always tell people to help orphans or fatherless children if they are in a position to do so because a child you help today can be your saviour tomorrow.

If I go to church, I play with kids a lot. I carried my pastor’s daughter and her husband well when they were babies. They did not even know they would get married. Now, they have two beautiful daughters.

What are your fears as a father?

I fear failure, not being able to keep my word or stand for my children or family. As a father, my duty is to defend my own. At every given point in time, even if my sons are married, I should be able to fend for them. I am not raising my children up for them to fend for me. I must be the last man to sleep and the first man to wake up. I learnt the ropes from my late father; they must learn from me too.

What is your low moment as a father?

You know there are certain times in life that it seems heaven has shut down and you don’t know what is wrong. You want to hear from God, but it is not happening. You probably told your wife that by the end of the week, you would give her certain things. But the job you were expecting failed you and you didn’t know how to break the news to her. She would walk past you without talking and you would also pretend like you didn’t remember your promise. At that time, you cannot raise your head up because you cannot provide for the family. But if you have a good wife, she will understand that things are yet to work out for you as planned. That is why it is necessary for men to communicate with their wives; there is no point hiding anything from your wife because it complicates things.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]