I used to find it difficult to apologise to my wife — Okey Ndibe
US-based writer and lecturer, Prof. Okey Ndibe, and his wife, Sheri, share their love story with GBENGA ADENIJI

How did you meet your spouse?

Okey: I crashed into her birthday party in Amherst, Massachusetts, where she was a graduate student — and I was setting up African Commentary, an international magazine, co-founded by Bart Nnaji, then a professor of industrial engineering at the University of Massachusetts, and the novelist, Chinua Achebe.

Sheri: I first met him very briefly at a party that was held in his house in Amherst, Massachusetts. I met him again when he came, uninvited, to my birthday party at the University of Massachusetts where I was a graduate student.

What attracted you to your partner?

Okey: I must confess, at first sight, it was her beauty that drew me to her. I mean sheer physical beauty. Over time, I came to recognise that she was an even more beautiful person in comportment, values and outlook. That’s what I’d call inner beauty.

Sheri: I think what really attracted me to him was his inquisitive, happy, upbeat disposition. He also struck me as very intelligent and widely read. Of course, he was also good looking and a pretty good dancer!

Was there any initial opposition to your relationship from family members?

Okey: Well, a female relative of mine thought my parents would object to my marrying a woman who’s partly Yoruba. But I had a better sense of my parents. I did not, for one moment, expect them to object — and they didn’t.

How do you settle disagreements?

Okey: We talk, simple. Whatever happens, however hurtful you feel in a relationship, you must never retreat into silence. I first saw this approach in my parents, but it took me a few years to learn how to practise it in my own marriage. My parents shared every confidence, made a point of being open to each other. I saw the same habit in Sheri’s parents. So, I’d say that Sheri and I were fortunate to have parents who were excellent models.

Who apologises first anytime there is a misunderstanding?

Okey: I used to be terribly stubborn; I used to find it crushingly difficult to apologise, even when I suspected, or knew I was in the wrong. But I have grown quite a lot, and become what you might call an emotional adult. So, I’m no longer afraid to apologise. I have realised that there’s joy in apologising when the person you love, who loves you, is unhappy with you for one reason or another.

Sheri: I am probably the first to apologise, but we have both gotten more experienced over the years in apologising. I sometimes explain to my husband that I am accepting his apology, in lieu of him apologising! We try as much as possible not to let our upsets linger for too long. Neither of us wants or benefits from either of us being unhappy; so, we try always to come from a position of love.

What lessons has marriage taught you?

Okey: One of the great lessons of marriage is the necessity to shed selfishness and self-centeredness. I now always adopt the broader perspective; I widen the scope of any considerations because my wife has to be a vital part of any decision. And I feel good to be enlarged in this way.

Sheri: Compromise is essential. You do have to meet in the middle some times and be willing to give and take, but ultimately, marriage is 100 per cent commitment on both sides.

How do you celebrate your wedding anniversary?

Okey: This is where my wife is unlucky, but (thank God) understanding. I take joy in life on a daily basis, but I don’t celebrate much — neither birthdays nor anniversaries. My wife and I have three anniversaries — for our church, traditional and statutory weddings. I’m ashamed to say that, sometimes, I don’t even remember some anniversary until it’s passed. But my wife is never in doubt of my devotion and love. And we take constant delight in each other’s presence and company. I’m afraid I have little use for anniversaries.

Sheri: We have had three weddings – registry wedding, traditional wedding, Catholic wedding. Sometimes, we manage to go out to dinner on one of the anniversary days. We try to celebrate our relationship by taking joy in each other’s company. For our 25th anniversary, Okey arranged that we travel to Italy and mark the occasion there. It was an amazing anniversary gift.

How has marriage changed you?

Sheri: I have learnt a lot from living with Okey. I’d like to think that his generosity, faith in God and his outlook on life have enhanced me, made me a better person.

Considering your lecturing and literary engagements, how do you create time for your wife?

Okey: I don’t have to create time for her. She and I are inside the same time, often the same space. She’s the most important person in my life. I’m happiest when she travels with me, which she does if she has a break from teaching. When I travel alone, wherever I am, I call her every day. When I’m home, we make sure we have time for each other. I love to cook; she loves my cooking, and I always make dishes she and I relish. We talk, we read together, and we take walks, when time permits.

What do you think makes a marriage to last?

Okey: Regard your spouse as your best friend — and demonstrate it in your actions.

Sheri: Knowing that marriage is work and that it doesn’t just happen. Listening is a very important part of a marriage. You may not always agree with your partner, but it is important to listen to their point of view. Spending quality time together is also crucial. You also need to build and earn trust in a marriage and then maintain it in your relationship. It will help hold your marriage together.

How do you pamper your spouse?

Okey: I cook her delicious meals. I sip wine with her. I take her on long road trips where it’s just the two of us — and the world out there.

Sheri: I am not sure that I pamper him at all. I try to give him the space he needs to create and write and the support to pursue his visions and goals.

What is your take on joint account for couples and do you practise it?

Okey: From the first day of our marriage, my wife and I have had joint accounts.

Sheri: We have always had joint accounts. Having a joint account is a good way to gauge and to practise trust in a marriage. Couples need to be able to discuss their finances openly and honestly as that is one of the top reasons that marriages fail.

How has parenting divided your attention for your husband?

Sheri: Parenting takes a lot of time and commitment. My husband played an active role in our parenting and that brought us closer as a couple. It is important to make time for each other. Though sometimes, for us, that time was spent together with the kids.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]