I cook for my wife on our wedding anniversary — Edaoto
Afrobeat singer, Edaoto Agbeniyi, and his wife, Funke, who is a nurse, talk about their love story with DOLAPO AKITOYE

How did you meet your wife?

Edaoto: I met her on the road. I had known her for some time in the neighbourhood but the very first time I spoke to her was on the road. Then, I was coming from school. I saw her and we spoke.

Funke: I met him along the road.

What attracted you to her?

Edaoto: The first thing that attracted me to her was her shape at the time. We were quite young then. We have been married for 13 years now.

Funke: He is a jovial person and that was what first attracted me to him and I love him.

How did the relationship develop?

Edaoto: Well, we became friends. Then, I read her a poem and I told her that I was going to marry her and we have been fine ever since.

Funke: It developed gradually.

For how long did you court?

Edaoto: We dated for about three years before we got married.

Funke: We had about three years of courtship before we wedded.

How did you propose to your wife?

Edaoto: Thirteen years ago, there wasn’t really any big drama of people kneeling down to propose. I just told her that I wanted to marry her and we both agreed to get married. I didn’t go down on one knee to propose. More importantly, my uncle insisted that I marry her.

Funke: After our courtship, he came to me and asked me if I would marry him and I accepted.

How have you succeeded in staying married despite the divorce rate in celebrity marriages?

Edaoto: Fortunately, my wife and I were born on the same day, same month and same year. We have fashioned our marriage into a proper mutual understanding. We always make sure we understand each other every time. Of course, there are times when we have misunderstandings but generally, she has been the keeper of the marriage. She has kept the marriage very firm.

She is a role model and for me, she is the best human being on earth. I am not just saying this because she is my wife but she really is the best human being on earth. She has one of the best characters in the world. She is very cool-headed; so, whatever madness I want to bring, her calmness and coolness are ready to absorb them.

Funke: Honestly, we thank God. By December this year, we are going to be celebrating 13 years of marriage and we give God the glory. At times, we have some issues but we thank God for how far we have come.

How do you manage your career with your roles as a husband and father?

Edaoto: Being a husband and being an artiste are two different things. First and foremost, my wife understands what I do and because she understands that, I also do my best to be a good husband and father. I also make sure I give my wife and children the attention they need when I have the power to do so because often times, I have commitments that occupy my time such as performances or I have to travel either within Nigeria or outside the country. So, during those times, I don’t have the opportunity to give them the attention they require but when I am able to do so, I give my wife, children and those around me undivided attention.

How do you manage being married to a musician?

Funke: When I met him, he wasn’t really an artiste as he is today. I mean, he was singing but not up to the level he is today. I didn’t marry him because he is an artiste but now, I thank God for what he has accomplished.

How do you cope without your wife when you are not in the country?

Edaoto: First, my call is important and I think I am in love with my family and career. When I am outside the country, we still stay in touch with each other. We talk very often no matter how long I have to stay abroad. Technology has also been very helpful in bringing people together. So, we talk and chat often.

What do you think are the secrets of a successful marriage?

Edaoto: For me, understanding is the first ingredient of a successful marriage. Couples have to understand each other and as Africans, both the man and woman must take equity as their watchword. It should consistently be applied in a marriage. I am not superior to my wife.

In fact, if I am asked, I would say women are superior to men because they have the power to do many things at the same time. Men don’t have that kind of power, especially those of us that are entertainers. We don’t have the kind of patience that women have. Women take care of the home and go to their workplaces at the same time. Love is also very important. You have to love your family. If there is no understanding, equity and love in any marriage, I’m not sure such marriage can survive.

Funke: Love and understanding. Those are the main things. As long as partners understand themselves and love each other, the marriage will stand the test of time.

How do you cope when he is out of the country?

Funke: I have to bear it. I am aware that he is an artiste and so, I know that there are times when he won’t be around. My children are there for me; I do not feel his absence much.

How do you resolve misunderstandings?

Edaoto: Mostly, we don’t have issues because whatever comes up, we handle it immediately. Sometimes, we talk about it and sometimes, we give each other a peck – she does that mostly. In relationships, you have to overlook many things because if not, one will just die. Whenever any misunderstanding happens, we address it and move on. We do not let it fester.

Funke: It is not often because we understand each other. We try to settle any misunderstandings. We do not invite third parties to our marriage.

How challenging has parenting been for you?

Edaoto: It has been a bit challenging. We have wonderful children and most times, they want us to be around all the time. My children are always asking me, “Daddy, are you going out again?” However, parenting has been super for me. I enjoy being a parent. I love my children and I love having them around me.

Funke: Well, it’s been nice for me. I thank God for everything.

How do you celebrate your wedding anniversary?

Edaoto: I cook for her. It is not that I don’t cook on other days, but I always make sure I cook for her on our wedding anniversary. As we share the same birthday as well, I make it mandatory to cook for her. I also take her out.

Funke: Mostly, he cooks for me. Sometimes, he takes me out.

What is your advice to other married celebrities?

Edaoto: I can only give advice based on my opinion of how marriage works. I advise them to imbibe understanding, equity and love. Those have been my watchwords because if you understand your spouse, and there is equity – nobody is superior between the two of you – and there is love, then, your marriage will be good. There will always be issues, but as long as you address them in a calm way, things will be okay.

Funke: My advice to them is to be patient. If you are patient in life, one will realise that there is nothing patience cannot do.

What pet names do you call each other?

Edaoto: Sometimes I call her ‘Queen’ and she called me ‘Ola.’

Funke: He calls me ‘Olufunke’ while I call him ‘Olaolu’ or ‘Ola.’

How would you describe yourself?

Edaoto: I am a no-nonsense person and I have zero tolerance for corruption. I am also a pan-Africanist to the core.

Funke: I am a cool-headed person.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]