Help save my sister’s life: –Brother of 28-year-old final year student diagnosed with leukaemia
Until 2016, Lynda Aigbodega – an indigene of Dagbala, Akoko-Edo Local Government Area of Edo State – was so full of life. An ebony figure, with an ever-smiling face and sleek body, she was a real head-turner.

But the 28-year-old and final year student of philosophy at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State, has since lost her good looks after she was diagnosed with leukaemia.

According to a United Kingdom-based charity, Leukaemia Care, leukaemia is a cancer which starts in blood-forming tissue, usually the bone marrow, and leads to the over-production of abnormal white blood cells, the part of the immune system which defends the body against infection.

Among others, the disease’s signs and symptoms include weakness, shortness of breath, light-headedness, palpitations, infections and fever.

When she suddenly started having repeated bouts of headache and fever, Aigbodega thought it was just a sickness that could be treated with paracetamol, but the sickness was far beyond what she imagined.

Before she knew it, her gums were becoming swollen, likewise her face, while her once good-looking hair were falling off. It was also becoming uneasy for her to breathe well.

Lynda’s brother, Emmanuel, who spoke with our correspondent on her behalf, said his sister’s condition had been giving him sleepless nights, seeing how her once-vibrant sibling had become frail.

He said, “Over two years ago, my sister just started having repeated headaches and she started taking paracetamol. Few days later, I got a call from home [Lagos] that she had collapsed. When I went to visit her, her face was swollen, her upper gum was also swollen, and she was slimmer than she used to. When I asked her what was wrong, she said it was just stress. I didn’t think so, however.

“Prior to that time, a few years back, she had been seeking university admission and was always complaining of not gaining worried that all her friends had got admission, while some of her mates had even graduated. She was complaining of getting tired [about life]. She was overthinking, but I encouraged her not to lose hope and not to compare her life with others.

“Eventually, she got admission to study philosophy at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, in 2014. By 2016, she was in 200 level, but still, her face wasn’t as bright as it used to be. I told her my observation, but she said she was okay, that I shouldn’t be bothered about her too much.”

While he was away at work someday in 2016, Emmanuel said he got calls from his father and elder sister that Lynda had collapsed again and had been admitted to the General Hospital, Gbagada, Lagos. There, doctors said his sister was lacking in blood.

“I was devastated. I had to quickly donate mine because she has a blood group that can receive from anyone [AB+]. She was given four pints of blood and I thought after that, she would be okay,” Emmanuel said.

But Lynda wasn’t okay. She was still weak and couldn’t walk for days – after which doctors at the General Hospital officially diagnosed her with leukaemia.

Emmanuel said, “Since then, she has been living on food supplements and receiving medical treatment at the General Hospital, Gbagada, and Divine Touch Herbal Clinic, Benin City.

“The treatment is gulping serious amount of money and right now, the family is broke. Our father is retired and our mother, who is a petty trader, has sold all her goods to buy drugs for her.

“Meanwhile, after the medical test that was carried out on her, we were told that she would recover if she underwent bone marrow transplant [also known as stem cell transplant] at a hospital in India, specifically the Fort Hospital in Kerala.

“We have contacted the hospital and they have estimated the cost of transplant at $9,500 [N3.42m]. With the cost of flight, among other expenses, the family is in dire need of $14,000 [N5m].”

Due to the family’s poor financial state, Emmanuel appealed to kind-hearted Nigerians to help raise funds for Lynda so she could go for the transplant and have her life back.

“I beg the good people of Nigeria to please save my sister’s life,” he pleaded.

Nigerians willing to help can pay into: Aigbodega Oyogbo Lynda, Access Bank account number 0031025100.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]