During pregnancy, I became too petty — Osazuwa
An entrepreneur, Mrs. Opeyemi Osazuwa, shares her joys of motherhood with DOLAPO AKITOYE

When and where was your daughter born?

She was born on February 11, 2018 at a private hospital in the Ikorodu area of Lagos.

Describe your labour experience

It was intense. I was on my way back home from work on Friday evening, February 9 when I started feeling some pains and since I was passing by the hospital, I decided to go in to check what was going on with me. When the doctors checked, they realised that I had started dilating.

I ended up staying at the hospital that night. On Saturday morning, the doctors checked me and realised that I was about 4cm dilated which meant that labour was progressing. I was going through intense pains that morning. Then, for some reason, the labour stopped and I started feeling normal, as though I was not going through anything.

At about 5pm, I was checked again and the doctor noticed that the labour had not progressed and I was still about 4cm-5cm dilated, thus they decided to do augmentation of labour — which is when the woman has already started dilating but they need to make the labour progress faster.

I was given a pill at about 6pm and after I had taken it, the labour became extremely intense again. I was in that pain from around 7pm till I had my baby at about 2.47am on early Sunday. Fortunately, my husband was with me. He tried to make it easier for me but he could not bear the pains for me. From the moment the baby came, everything went back to normal.

How did you feel when you first found out you were expecting a baby?

You know, based on other people that have had babies and the things one read on social media, I felt like I was supposed to be excited, but when the doctor told me that I was expecting, I took it normally. That was just it. I told my husband and a few people close to me because I just felt like the pregnancy was too early to make any big announcements.

What was the baby’s weight at birth?

She was 3.5kg.

Is she your first child?

Yes, this is my first child.

Did you have a gender preference before the baby was born?

Yes. I wanted to have a baby girl and I got a baby girl.

Did you do a scan to check the baby’s sex?

I did about three scans but they didn’t show the sex of the baby. I did not get to know the sex of the baby until she came.

Did you enjoy your pregnancy and what was the most difficult part of it?

Well, it depended on the stages. The first trimester was a bit intense because I was always feeling sick, throwing up on the road and it was the most difficult part for me. Then, also towards the end of the pregnancy, when I could not sleep well because of the bump; that was also difficult as well. However, every other part of it was enjoyable, especially the second trimester.

What food did you crave during pregnancy?

I did not have a particular craving during pregnancy. It depended on my mood. Most of the time, I craved sweet things but there were times when I wanted food. I ate a lot of rice and stew. In fact, I ate a lot of rice during my pregnancy.

Did the baby arrive on the expected due date?

No. I was due to give birth on February 14 and the baby came on February 11.

How did you cope with mood swings during pregnancy?

Honestly, I don’t even know. All I know is that I tried to stay away from people because I was very petty. I took things personally a lot. For instance, when someone would say something, I would begin to read meanings to what they were saying and I would look at it beyond the surface. I was just very petty and because of that, I just stayed away from a lot of people so that I would not start misjudging them.

What has been the most challenging task since you became a mother?

The most challenging has been sleeping at night but it is getting better. It is really challenging because for babies, they do not have day time or night time. They can be awake at any time; so, it does not really allow me to sleep well at night. Every day when I wake up, I feel like I have a hangover. That has been the biggest challenge.

What are some things that you have observed in your baby?

Well, it is a completely different feeling when you feel like someone is completely dependent on you. She can’t do anything for herself and so I have to rely on my intuition to know what she needs.

How did you choose your baby’s name?

The name I gave my baby is a name that I have had in mind even before she was born. I chose the name regardless of the baby’s sex. The name came as a result of all the things that I had experienced during pregnancy and my life as a whole. I just felt like God was coming through for me and that was what inspired my baby’s name.

How would you compare your life before and now that you are a mother?

It is a completely different ball game. Prior to the birth of my child, I could be really selfish. I did things for my husband but most of the time, it was all about me but now, before I even think about any other person, I have to think of my baby. Also, before I even think of doing anything for myself, I have to think of my child and what she needs. That has been the major thing. Now, my child comes before everything, even my work.

How do you balance motherhood, business and house chores?

It has not been easy. For my business, things have been very slow because even though I have jobs to do, many times, the baby won’t even let me. She is always crying. She might be quiet if we are watching television but the moment I get up to do something tangible, she starts to cry. It’s like she just wants me to sit down there with her and be watching TV. As for house chores, my husband has actually been very supportive. He helps me around the house. There are certain things I have left for him to do and he has been doing them very well. However, my business has been the one at the receiving end because my husband cannot do it for me. I do it by myself. I just do what I can do and I leave the rest because for now, my baby is my priority.

What part of your body changed during pregnancy that you did not like?

My breasts! I have always had firm breasts but because of breastfeeding, they are beginning to come down. Although, it is still not completely bad but I just hate that I cannot go back to the days when I could go without wearing a bra. Every other part of my body is coming back to shape as it was before I got pregnant.

Have you been breastfeeding exclusively?

No. Once in a while, I give her formula because she eats a lot and my body cannot handle it. I am always weak after breastfeeding so, especially when she is going to bed at night, I give her the formula so that she can sleep longer.

Some women find breastfeeding painful. Has this been your case?

Yes, at the beginning, it was very painful. I had sore nipples. Now, I could be breastfeeding and not feel like there is anything happening. I don’t feel much pain again except when she decides to use her gum when feeding. However, breastfeeding has become easier for me.

What advice did your mother and other relatives give you about motherhood that helped you?

Sincerely, I did not get that much advice. I did not see lots of things coming. I had lots of expectations and many of them did not come out the way I expected them to be. Luckily, because I have many young ones, I have learnt some things over the years about taking care of babies and those are some of the things that are helping me now. Those things I learnt through experience and not what someone told me.

How much has your baby changed since she was born?

She has added much weight. Her face keeps changing – one moment, she looks like one person and the next day, she looks like another – but she is growing well. When we went to the hospital for check-up, the doctors confirmed that she is doing well and healthy.

Are you overprotective of your daughter?

At the beginning, I think I was. Once I heard her cry, I jumped up. Now, I just take my time to handle her. Also, at first, when other people carried her, I was always worried that they were not carrying her well but now, I think I am more relaxed.

How would you want to raise your child and what experiences would you want to create for her?

First and foremost, even at this moment, I am trying to cultivate a praying habit in her. When I am praying, I hold her. I want her to know that in everything that she does, no matter how successful she becomes in future, God should always come first. Apart from that, my priority is her education. This is why I do not intend to have more than two children because I want to be able to give my children the best I can offer.

I also want my child to have relationships with people, not just the nuclear family, but also the extended family as well. I want her to understand the importance of family because I have lots of family members that have been really good to me. I want her to understand that she comes from a large family. I want to give myself the best I can offer and I know that I would have to deny myself some things but at the same time, I am not going to do more than I can do.

How is your husband coping as a first-time father?

Well, he is actually doing better than I expected. He has been supportive and he really likes her company. Any time he is home, he just wants to be around her. Sometimes, he tells me not to worry and that I can handle other things while he takes care of her. He spends a lot of time with her. He is really excited. He wants to do things with her and change her diapers and all of that. He is taking it very well.

Is there anything you would have loved to do differently while pregnant?

I have no regrets. I don’t think there is anything that I would have loved to do differently.

What has changed about your daily schedule now that you have a new child?

Everything has changed. I can’t tell someone I will see them the next day. I can only tell you that ‘we can see today’. When I wake up and I see the way the day is going, then I can decide to see the person. I can’t make plans because I don’t know what is going to happen until the day itself comes.

What lessons has motherhood taught you?

Motherhood has taught me patience. I used to think I was a patient person but I have come to realise that I’m not as patient as I thought. I am learning to be patient and to take my time to do things.

What advice would you give pregnant women and new mothers?

They should put God first because I think everything that has been happening to me is because of God. It’s not by my power. I’ve never had a baby before but I’ve been taking care of my baby all by myself and there hasn’t been any form of accident and everything has been going on well. I have been praying a lot. I pray about everything and I pray to God to guide me when I am taking care of her.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]