When your partner has a low self-esteem
Having a partner with low self-esteem can be frustrating especially when he or she is insecure and unsure of themselves. Follow these tips on how to help your partner boost their self-esteem

Brag about your partner

According to www.bustle.com, whenever you get a chance, brag to your friends and family about your partner both in their presence and absence. This will not only help improve your partner’s self-esteem, but it will improve the way your partner’s friends and family see them. Remember you are helping your partner feel good about themselves.

Practise unconditional acceptance

Unconditional acceptance is the most stable foundation to help your partner build his or her self-esteem. It means you promise to have your partner’s back, no matter what. You also promise to love them, including their flaws, failures, shortcomings, mistakes and problems. So, always show your partner how much you love and accept them.

Use your ‘I’ statements

‘I’ statements are an important part of compassionate communication that help to build self-esteem. The statement forces you to focus on your own feelings instead of placing blame on your partner. A quick example is to say ‘I am worried about our bank account balance’ or ‘it would make me feel less nervous about bills if we made a budget together’ instead of saying ‘you spend too much money’ or ‘you misuse money’.

Compliment

Always compliment your partner whenever you can but make sure that it is sincere. If your partner always complains on how they look, tell them how good looking they are. This can have a big impact on the way they see themselves. Look for anything you like in them or any small achievements they have made and tell them about it. Lots of small compliments often have a way of taking hold of someone until they may start to believe them.

Don’t be angry

It is hard work sometimes living with someone with low self-esteem. Rather than getting angry at him or her, focus on the strength. If you show that you are angry at your partner because he or she doesn’t appreciate himself or herself, it may have a huge effect on crushing him or her self-esteem and cements your partner’s view that he or she is not good enough.

Listen

When your partner tells you how he or she feels about himself or herself, don’t judge your partner, just listen. You may not understand, but giving them the support by simply listening is valuable and makes them feel validated and supported. You don’t need to agree with them; simply give them your attention for them to talk freely. You can then offer to get some help by showing concern.

Watch what you say

People with low self-esteem can be very fragile and often hear a negative when there is none intended. Be aware that small things you say can take on a much bigger meaning for them. However, this is not to suggest that you need to weigh every word before you speak, just be aware that anything negative may hold a greater meaning to them than you intended.

Include them

Make an effort to include your partner in activities with you and your friends. If they are reluctant to participate, it may be that they want to but are unsure of themselves. Be supportive and encourage them to get involved.

Accept their defensiveness

Your partner may seem to be overly sensitive and defensive. This is normal for someone with low self- esteem. They can be quick to react if they feel you are putting them down or attacking them in some way. So, be aware that they are fragile and accept that the defensiveness is a protection for them when they are feeling vulnerable. As their partner, you can have a big impact in helping to support them while they work on themselves.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]