Monitor your kids’ lifestyles to have rest of mind — Oyeyemi
The Federal Road Safety Commission’s Corps Marshal, Boboye Oyeyemi, shares his fatherhood experience with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood is more or less mentorship. A father is somebody who brings you to life and raises you up with the fear of God. A father is like a role model. If the father has a good character, that is what the child will emulate.

Tell us about your father and how he raised you.

My father was a strict disciplinarian. He was a pastor; so, I was brought up with the fear of God. Morning devotions were compulsory. By the time I was six, I could read the Bible and pray well.

We are a family of six children. I am the third child, with two elder females. We attended bible studies and other spiritual devotions. We were also made to know Christ. There is a difference between going to church and knowing Christ. I attended a boarding school for secondary school education. The religious inculcation helped me a lot. My father taught us to be helpful to one another and not to be weary in doing good. He was also a counsellor; I learnt lots of things from him. My father was always called “baba ewe” (father of kids) because he loved children. If you did wrong, he would cane you.

What did you learn from that upbringing?

That foundation really helped my upbringing like the scripture says that the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom. When a child has such an upbringing, there is no way he or she can be wrongly influenced by peers. As a young child, I was conscious of the right and wrong and knew clearly what I should do. I was never being supervised to do anything. Once a child starts nursery or primary school, the parents need to infuse in him the concepts of morality. If a child has been brought up with the fear of God, the road to adulthood will be clear to live a good life.

When did you become a father?

I married late; I married when I was 29. In Yorubaland, that is late because by 25 or 26, you should have been married. That is what I am encouraging my children to do. The earlier one settles down in marriage, the better. When you are much younger as a father, children upbringing will be easy for you. It is better than giving birth to children at old age.

I always advise young men to decide how many children they want in a marriage and complete childbirth in a space of five years so that by the time they are 40, their children are already in secondary school. Before one is 50, one’s children are already graduates. By the time you are retiring, they are already working and you are already a grandfather. The remaining part of your life will not be stressful.

One of the things my father taught us was that one shouldn’t rely on one’s children after retirement. One must plan for one’s tomorrow and give one’s children the best education so that they don’t become a burden to one later in life. That is one of the fundamental aspects of fatherhood.

Where were you when your first child was born?

I had been with the Federal Road Safety Commission then. My first child was born in 1994. That was about 24 years ago. I stood by the window of the labour room. My first child was born around 1.30am. I was praying for my wife in labour and that all should go well. Immediately I heard the sound of a child, I gave thanks to God. There was no Global System for Mobile Communication then. It was an analogue phone that I used to call my father at Ibadan, Oyo State. I also called my father and mother-in-law

How did you feel when you held your first child?

He looked like me. He was white (laughs). After she gave birth, they called me in and I was asked to carry him. I looked at him closely but he has really changed to be a young man. I was very happy. That is another level of joy. Not having a child is not a good experience which is why I pray for others seeking the fruit of the womb that God will answer them.

How has fatherhood changed your perspective about life?

Of course, it has changed me. There is a difference between being single and married. Fatherhood means responsibility and discipline. If you get married and there are no children yet, your conduct as a man would be quite different. You have to control your spending and work harder. You must also plan to give your children the best so that your mind would be at rest tomorrow. It makes you plan well because of the demands of your children.

I adopted my father’s leadership style by inculcating the fear of God and the love of Christ in my children. They give me joy today.

How is your mode of discipline different from your father’s?

There is a difference. I am much tougher than my father. My father was a cleric and when you stand in that office, you must be kind to everybody and accommodate others with love. I needed to be stricter because things have changed now. While I was growing up, all these distractions were not there. In the 21st century, there are many distractions like the social media. There was nothing like Facebook, Instagram or Twitter during my early childhood years.

Things have changed. You must not allow your children to be negatively influenced by those inventions and devices. You must be firm and be observant of their behaviour and who they are moving with. Your antenna as a father must be sensitised, so you know how to care for your child. When I was in boarding school, my parents never visited me. But now, I am compelled to visit my children to know the kind of groups they are moving with. You must quietly ask their teachers how they are behaving. Nobody did that for me because I was focused. I monitor their lifestyle and they give me rest of mind because of their behaviours.

Do you think a male child requires more attention than females?

I have three children; two boys and a girl. The girl is the last child. She is the closest to me. There seems to be this affection for the opposite sex in our culture which makes fathers to be closer to their female children. I was closer to my mother than my father. My daughter is closer to me than the boys and she cares for me like a mother. It, however, depends on the perspectives of the family involved. But all children require attention, irrespective of their gender.

How do you reward your children’s good deeds?

I use the carrot and stick method. When they do well, I commend them. If they don’t do well, I correct them. I am very firm with them on mistakes. Parents must guide their children well and correct their mistakes.

What do your children tease you about?

My first son calls me “old school” man (Laughs). They like wearing fitted dresses which I can’t wear. When I buy things for him, he would tell me, “No, I can’t wear this.” He could collect it and take it to a tailor to adjust it. I can’t wear such tight dresses because my upbringing and responsibility do not allow me to dress in such a manner.

How do you combine fatherhood with your schedules?

When it comes to children upbringing, the mother has more responsibilities because the father may not be at home all the time. I ensure that we do devotions together in the mornings, evenings and we interact. Once there is no communication gap between you and your family, the rest is simple. I think the problem starts when the communication gap is broken and your children cannot relate with you by sharing their problems with you. East or West, home is the best. If you are staying in a five-star hotel and your father’s house is a mud house, it still remains your home. You must not forget your responsibilities. The fear of God must be the foundation of every home. That was why I said that if you don’t instil the fear of God in your children, they may be wrongly influenced by their peers. The ones that were not properly brought up can be easily influenced by outsiders.

What has been your major challenge as a father?

I don’t think I have any particular challenge as a father. I thank God that I can fulfil my responsibilities to the family.

What relationship advice do you give to your children?

I have been guiding them that the most important thing is to put God first in their choices. They should be able to learn to stand on their own. They are already focused.

Is any of your children interested in joining the FRSC?

My father tried that for me. It didn’t work. He wanted me to be a pastor but I could not because I was still too young and didn’t meet the age requirement. Parents should allow their children tell them their interests and guide them accordingly. My daughter is keen on becoming a teacher. I have asked her several times, and the answer has been the same. I was touched. I encourage all of them to have the fear of God and be useful to society.

What lessons has fatherhood taught you?

Most importantly, the fear of God is crucial. One has to live above board because you have children who are watching you. It has taught me not to copy anybody.

What is your advice to would-be fathers?

The most important thing for them is to decide what they want and the person they want to marry. Prayerfully, get a life partner. Many people miss it because of wrong partners which affect them for the rest of their lives. Wrong marital choices are responsible for many societal problems we hear about today.

Tell us your happiest moments as a father.

There are countless happy moments. My happiest moment as a father was when I became a father. I was also happy when I had a girl child.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]