At a time, I cried every day during pregnancy – Olatinwo
A bank worker, Mrs. Omobolanle Olatinwo, shares her joys of motherhood with DOLAPO AKITOYE

When did you give birth?

I gave birth to my son on February 15, 2018 at a general hospital in Lagos.

How did you find out you were expecting a baby?

I was at work and I started to feel dizzy. I wasn’t sure if I was pregnant or not because I was not keeping track. I went to a nearby pharmacy and bought a test kit and after using it, it showed that I was pregnant. I called my husband and I told him what I found out. He rushed down to my place of work and we were very happy and thankful to God because it was what we wanted.

Describe your labour experience

It was tough. It was agonising. It was as if I had been run over by a train. I don’t really remember it now but all I know is that at time, I was in much pain and nothing else mattered. It’s hard to describe it but it was painful.

Was your husband in the labour room with you?

No, he wasn’t. He was outside the room all through.

Is he your first child?

Yes, he is my first child.

Did you have a gender preference before your child was born?

Well, I have always wanted a boy to be honest. I preferred to have a boy as my first child but it did not really matter at the time. Any gender would have been appreciated but I wanted a boy.

How did you choose your baby’s name?

Well, we have actually had a name for two years (which is the duration of our marriage) and we have always wanted that name and even during pregnancy, we used to call the foetus by that name.

We were set on the name until I was about 30-week pregnant. My husband came back from work one day and he had researched the name and found that the name was a bit feminine. Since we were expecting a boy, we had to make a change. I didn’t want to change the name but I wanted to make my husband happy; so, I chose to go with the new name he chose. I chose how the name should be spelt because there are about two ways of spelling the name.

Did you enjoy your pregnancy and what was the most difficult part of it?

I probably enjoyed only the second trimester. This is because the first trimester was horrible. It was filled with ups and downs. I was sick and working. I had lots of things to do at the time. I was always throwing up on my way and back from work. In fact, I couldn’t even hide it at work that I was pregnant because I was always nauseous and feverish. It wasn’t easy at all. The third trimester wasn’t great because it affected my movement. I was having pelvic issues and sleepless nights. The first and last trimesters were very stressful. The second trimester was relatively fine. I didn’t have much problems. The morning sickness was gone and I wasn’t feeling pressure then; so, it was great.

What did you crave during pregnancy?

During the first trimester, I only used to take oranges. That was the only thing I really liked because I didn’t have much appetite. From the second trimester, transitioning into the third trimester, I started to eat a lot. I wanted to eat virtually anything that smelled nice to me. I liked ice cream a lot but I controlled it because I didn’t want any complications. I also liked chocolate cookies. I was mostly craving sweet things.

Can you recall a funny experience during your pregnancy?

Well, that will be when he kicks. He used to move like he is in a free zone like he doesn’t realise he is human. So, sometimes, he will turn so much that you could see some parts of his body poking out through my belly and the shape is looking uneven and it used to make me laugh. Also, whenever my partner touched my stomach at that time, he will just kick him off. Another time was when we had the sonographic scan and he was kicking the device being used showing clearly, that he did not like it, to the point that my doctor had to reschedule. Those were things that I found interesting and funny and I felt my baby was quite expressive even during pregnancy.

Did your baby arrive on the expected due date?

No, it wasn’t up to the expected due date. He was about 38 weeks and a few days when he was born. He did not reach 40 weeks.

Did you experience mood swings during pregnancy?

A lot of times I did. Normally, my mood could change but during pregnancy, it got really worse. I was overly excited and at some points, I was down. I could say that I experienced depression at 28 weeks because I used to cry every day. I coped by waiting on it because I knew it would pass because I had read that it could happen.

What has been the most challenging task since you became a mother?

Sleepless nights and when you don’t have good sleep, it can affect your whole day. You can almost lose your mind sometimes because you also have your partner demanding so much and you need to take care of him and also take care of your baby. It can be frustrating generally and it has not been easy. I’m adjusting now though.

What are some things you have observed in taking care of a newborn?

Newborns are very delicate. They are not well coordinated because their motor skills have not fully developed. For instance, when I am bathing him in the morning, he might want to suck on his fingers and he may have soap on his fingers and it can cause worry because I don’t want him to fall sick. Also, the risk of him sleeping off is also there. I have to be very careful with that. Generally, bathing babies is not as easy as bathing oneself.

How would you compare your life now as a mother with when you are not?

Freedom! That is the first word that comes to mind. Before I became a mother, I had lots of freedom as I could go anywhere and do anything. I could even go to the cinemas. For instance, I want to see the Black Avengers but I had to consider the cold in the cinema and I cannot wrap my baby because he might want to be free.

Also, I won’t be able to be in the cinema for long without him disturbing the audience. So, that freedom is not there and I am a movie freak. I cannot even take him to a crèche because he is too young and even then, I won’t feel as good as I would have felt if I had him with me. The first thing one compromises when one becomes a mother is freedom. Then, there is this sense of pride and sense of maturity that comes with motherhood and everything about one changes. One becomes more prudent, realistic, resourceful and organised. The advantages definitely outweigh the disadvantages. Also, in our society, you gain more respect when you have a baby as society now sees you as a woman.

How do you balance motherhood, your work and house chores?

Now, I am on maternity leave but even at that, with certain professions, you still get calls and things that you might need to do. It’s not like you are totally free from work. I work in a bank and even though I am at home, I still have targets that I need to meet. In a way, I still have to keep in touch with certain customers. As for house chores, it definitely helps if one has someone that can help take the load off because newborns require full-time attention. It is stressful juggling all of it.

What part of your body changed during pregnancy that you did not like?

There are some parts of my body that changed which I did not see coming. I mean, even with all the pregnancy books I read, they just brushed it and didn’t go into details. I did not really have stretch marks for the most part, but when I was around 37 weeks, I started noticing them on my stomach and I was devastated.

What advice did your mother and relatives give you about motherhood that helped you?

My mother always told me not to breastfeed my baby while lying down because it could drip down and enter into the baby’s ears and it could cause infection. That was very helpful. My siblings practically gave me a guide on how to take care of my baby and I found that very useful.

Some new mothers are usually overprotective of their children. Is that your case?

Yes. I think that comes naturally with the hormones and instinct of motherhood. You can’t just be careless. In fact, one would not even want mosquito to bite the child. Once you have a baby, it just becomes part of you to want to protect the child.

How do you want to raise your child?

I spent the latter part of my pregnancy thinking about this. I want to create a certain kind of lifestyle for my child. I want a certain kind of education for my child. I want to bring my child up in the way of God. I want him to learn his religion and abide by the rules because I want him to be a great individual for himself and society. I also want to be a role model for my child and I want to act right so that he can emulate that. I want to protect him from bad environment that can influence his behaviour.

How is your husband coping as a first-time father?

I’m even surprised because he has been quite helpful especially in the night. We take care of the baby together in the night and he has adjusted to that because he used to be a deep sleeper. Now, he knows that he has a responsibility to his child. Sometimes, he walks the baby around the house while I am sleeping.

How many hours of sleep do you get at night?

Between 10pm and 6am, I can get about five to six hours of sleep. It used to be worse but it is better now. However, I don’t get the five hours of sleep straight. I always wake up in between to take care of the baby.

How have you found breastfeeding?

Breastfeeding is stressful because my baby feeds often. Overall, it’s bonding with the baby and he holds my finger when he feeds which is very heart-warming. For now, I have been on exclusive breastfeeding but I am trying to introduce him to formula-feeding because I will be starting work soon and I want to see how he would deal with that.

What has changed about your daily schedule now that you have a baby?

Everything has changed. All my plans revolve around him and I can’t predict what will happen during the day. I usually have a to-do list and I try to do them.

What lessons has motherhood taught you?

Motherhood has taught me to be very responsible in everything that I do.

What is your advice to pregnant women and new mothers?

To pregnant women, they should enjoy their pregnancies and do all the enjoyable things they have always wanted to do. There will be plenty of time to get serious and plan when the babies arrive, but for the moment, they should enjoy the moment. As for new mothers, they should always create time for themselves and not look shabbily just because they are new mothers. They should take care of themselves.

Famous quote

When you are a mother, you are never really alone in your thoughts. A mother always has to think twice, once for herself and once for her child — Italian actress and singer, Sophia Loren

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]