Should couples allow third parties in their affairs?
TOLUWANI ENIOLA speaks with experts and couples on the desirability or otherwise of third parties in resolving conflicts in marriage

The wedding of Mr. Ayo Dairo to his wife, Betty, was a well-attended event in 2014. Everything began well for the couple but a few months after their wedding, they started having disagreements which compelled Dairo to report his wife to his mother.

When Betty got to know her husband had reported her to his mother, she felt bad. The issue later degenerated into arguments which almost led to the collapse of the marriage.

Dairo told SUNDAY PUNCH that his wife was rude to his mother while she wanted to settle the dispute. He stated that out of rage, he headed to court to dissolve the marriage based his friend’s advice.

The father of two, however, said the thought of what would befall his children prevented him from ending the marriage.

He said, “Every member of my family, including friends, asked me to end the union. It was only my brother, who is a devoted Christian, who advised me otherwise. If I had yielded to the advice of my friends, whom I discussed the matter with, my marriage would have shamefully ended barely five years after the wedding.”

Dairo’s experience brings to the fore the mistakes couples make when they allow third parties in their affairs. Many couples often think that by discussing their problems with others, they would get solutions to their problems.

According to experts, a third party is a person or group besides the couple, involved in a situation, especially a dispute. He or she can be either of the couples’ family members, friends, co-workers or neighbours.

The issue of whether couples should allow third parties to mediate in their marital problems or not has been a debate in social discourse.

The majority of couples, who shared their experiences with SUNDAY PUNCH, believed that allowing third parties in marriages portended a great harm. Their conclusion that a third party is unnecessary is based on their experiences having relied on third parties to settle their marital issues.

Sharing her story with our correspondent, a child health advocate, Mrs. Khadijat Hussein, said when couples involved third parties in their marital issues, they risked being given wrong advice which could end their marriage.

Hussein said many women enjoyed discussing the disagreements they had with their husbands with third parties without knowing that such third parties even had a more difficult problem they are encountering in their homes.

She said, “When a woman discusses her issues with a third party, such as a friend or co-worker, you will hear words like, ‘Chai, my husband cannot try that with me’, or ‘If I were you, I would do this and that if my husband tries that with me’. The third parties continue to dish out the wrong advice.

“Based on this, I think it is wrong because the friend or co-worker you report your husband to may be facing a worse challenge in her home. The third party may give a wrong advice and this may scatter one’s marriage. It may be helpful if the third party will give good advice but these days, it is the opposite. This is why I always advise women to be careful. Not all friends mean well for you.”

According to Mrs. Oluwatosin Adetayo, a third party should not interfere in a marriage because the Bible says ‘the two shall become one’ and not three.

Adetayo said it was common in the South-West for family members to always want to know everything happening in the homes of couples.

She urged the husband and wife to know how to protect their homes from third-party interference.

According to her, couples have to make this decision and stand by it.

Adetayo stated, “But in the case where the husband is physically abusing his wife, she needs to seek help and not suffer in silence. But anyone they bring in should come to help, restore and be a blessing, not to take over the home.

“God is the founder of homes and should be the one involved in every conflict. This does not overrule the place of having a mentor but this has to be done by God’s leading and we also have to be careful of who to choose as a mentor, because some mentors have destroyed many homes.

“Our foundation has to be God and His word. This will shape us and help us to walk closely with our husbands or wives in order to fulfil His will in our homes and not allow any third party into our homes.”

An Ibadan-based civil servant, Mr. Oluwaseun Gabriel, explained that the involvement of third parties in a marriage, to a large extent, was detrimental to the stability and the sanctity of the institution of marriage.

Ariyo supported Adetayo’s view that third parties served negative purposes regarding marital issues.

He said the interference of third parties, such as friends, neighbours, relatives and even in-laws often complicated issues, especially when there were personal interests by such parties.

Ariyo added, “Let’s assume there is a misunderstanding between a man and his wife. In a bid to resolve it, the wife takes the matter to her friend who, without her knowledge, has been jealous of the couple’s hitherto happy home. What kind of advice do you expect from such a fellow? She would most likely fan the embers of enmity into a full-blown inferno. The same applies to bad in-laws.

“However, there are some healthy third-party interferences whereby issues that would ordinarily get out of hand are easily resolved. It is sad that such cases are few compared to the negative ones.”

A drama evangelist and marriage counsellor, Mr. Segun Okeowo, and his wife, Sumbo, have a different perspective on the role of third parties in a marriage.

In an earlier interview with this correspondent, Okeowo emphasised the importance of a third party in marriage, recommending that every couple needed a third party “who must be someone the couple respect and revere.”

Okeowo even advised ladies, intending to get married, not to do so until they recognised that ‘respected’ person in their partners’ lives who they fear and who can mediate when things go wrong.

The actor said, “Don’t marry a man who fears nobody. A man who does not have that kind of person in his life is not a husband material. A third party is essential.”

Sumbo stated, “We advise couples to understand that no partner is perfect. Every marriage needs an elderly third party who both partners respect or fear. Someone once said couples should not allow a third party but it is wrong. Every marriage needs coaches.”

Hussein, who is a devoted Muslim, corroborated Okeowo’s view, adding that couples could adopt the Imam, who joined them or another respected Islamic leader, as the only third party to relate with.

“If a couple has marital issues, they may seek the help of their parents or their religious leaders who joined them in holy matrimony. But the basic thing is that both should agree on who to discuss their marital issues with,” she added.

Famous quote

It is very easy to see that two in conflict are fighting. They are very visible. What is harder to see or suspect is that a third party existed and actively promoted the quarrel — American relationship coach, Stan Dubin

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]