Zik prevailed on my brother to allow me marry a Yoruba man –Ajayi-Obe
Ninety-year-old Mrs. Phoebe Ajayi-Obe, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, shares the story of her life with OLUFEMI ATOYEBI

Which schools did you attend?

I attended St. Monica Girls School, Ogbunike, near Onitsha, Anambra State, and Women Training College, Umuahia, Abia State. I later attended the Obafemi Awolowo University, which was then called the University of Ife, after I got married. The school was in Ibadan then but it was moved to Ile-Ife soon after I got the admission. I was the first female graduate from the Faculty of Law in the school. There was another woman who graduated same day with me but my name was called before her.

My fifth son was born while I was in the Law School in Lagos. I thank God that my husband supported me. He bought a Volkswagen Beetle for me and it eased my movement. Each time I had family commitment in Onitsha, I would drive there from Ibadan with my sister. I preferred driving such long distance at night. The road was safe and the weather was cool; so, driving was pleasant. I did that regularly.

My father was a parishioner. He established churches and watched them grow. He would not baptise anyone that could not read the Bible. That showed he valued education. In his churches, illiterates were educated and taught the moral expectations of a Christian. That enabled my parents to raise God-fearing children.

Why didn’t you complete your education before you got married?

My education did not follow a straight pattern. I trained as a teacher and while I was teaching, the then Eastern Region gave many women scholarships to study the teaching of Home Economics in England. We were 15 in my set. After completing the study, my late brother encouraged me to do my Advanced Level for one more year before I returned to Nigeria to take up a teaching job.

Your husband was a Yoruba man and you grew up in the East. How did you meet him?

While I was studying in England, he was also there studying medicine. We met in Edinburgh where we both studied. When we arrived in Edinburgh, the African students held a reception for us. That was where he showed interest in me. I was not interested anyway; but later, I developed interest because of who he was.

Was there any objection from your parents at home?

My parents had died but my brother, who sponsored my further stay in England, disagreed with the union. He sent someone to see if I was broke or if the cold was too much for me because he could not understand why marriage to a Yoruba man suddenly became my interest. The two people he sent gave him good report about my husband but he was adamant.

What about your husband’s family?

My husband tricked me to dress well for an outing but on the way, he stopped at a photographer’s shop and said I was too beautiful, so I must take a photograph. That was the picture he sent to his father and the father approved of me. But he told his father that my family did not agree. My father-in-law was a senator on the platform of the defunct National Council of Nigeria and Cameroon.

He contacted one of the chieftains of the party, Michael Okpara, who also called the party founder, Nnamdi Azikiwe. They invited my brother and told him that my would-be husband was a good man because his father (my father-in-law) was also a good man. We got married in Edinburgh immediately. He told me after we returned home that he decided to marry me in England because he wanted to avoid a situation where several Igbo doctors, accountants and so on would line up asking for my hand in marriage.

Where did you work when you returned to Nigeria?

I got a teaching job with the then Western Region. My husband was also employed by the government of the region. When he was in Osogbo, Osun State, I was teaching in Queen’s School, Ede. From there, he was transferred to Oyo and later Abeokuta. But the Western Region refused to transfer me to where my husband was transferred. When he was transferred to Warri, I had three children. I thought that there was no way I would train the children alone without their father beside them. I opted to resign from my job and follow my husband to Warri. Since then, I lost interest in teaching and decided to read law.

As a female Senior Advocate of Nigeria, what responsibility does this place on you?

I did not have the ambition of becoming a SAN. I had a habit of sitting by my husband whenever we went to a party. One day, we were at a party with the late Justice Kayode Eso and others. Someone suddenly asked why Eso had not given me SAN title because I was better than those who got it. Eso said I did not apply for it. He told Chief Olowofoyeku to tutor me on the process. I was qualified after my cases were reviewed and I got it. But it is not a burden in any way. I accepted it as a product of my commitment to my work.

Are you satisfied with how SAN is awarded today?

I am not part of those who screen people for SAN but I notice that it is easier to get SAN today. I understand that a lawyer from Ibadan went to Abuja and lobbied to get SAN and he got it. I can say it is no longer on merit but that is not saying that some do not merit it. From the performance of some of our SANs, you will doubt their qualifications.

Can you mention some of the celebrated cases you handled?

After the civil war, the Igbo, who left Ibadan, came back to find out that their houses had been taken over by some people. I felt that they should be protected. Some of them were arraigned in a customary court charged for wandering. I represented them in the court. They told me that because they had no where to stay, they were sleeping in front of Kingsway Store at night when they were arrested. The charge sheet read that they were arrested because they were people of questionable character.

In court, I asked the prosecutor the fact of the case. He said the investigating police officer found them in front of Kingsway sleeping. I then told the magistrate how it was possible for someone to be sleeping and still wander at the same time. He dismissed the case. Journalists were there and they captured the pictures of the freed persons; many running away from the court. The second day, the story was celebrated in major newspapers.

I also remember winning a case for some traders whose shops were demolished by the Africa Continental Bank and the United Bank for Africa because they felt the shops were too close to their offices in Dugbe. The fact was that the traders had permits from the local government. The court awarded damages against the bank. It was also a celebrated case in the media.

How would you compare the law profession in your days and now?

The legal system has not changed but the practice has changed. When I was in practice, you would be sure of favourable judgment if you had a good case. It was a joy to get ready for court because you were sure of getting justice.

Were there cases you lost but which you considered unfair based on the ruling?

Because the judges could make mistake, there is Appeal Court. Once I am suspicious that the judge could be too lazy to cite relevant authorities on my case, I would be prepared for an appeal even when he had not made the ruling.

Do you have children who are lawyers?

One of them is a lawyer practising in the US. When she got there, she had to be retrained for her to be called to the American bar. That was not possible until two years ago when the system was reviewed to absorb those who studied law outside the US. My daughter is a professor in law with chambers in Georgia, US.

At 90, what is the secret of your good eyesight and sharp memory?

It is God’s grace because I should not be alive today considering what happened to me in the past. After a walk with some of my friends, I was on my way home when a car hit me. I was taken to the University College Hospital, Ibadan. I was sent to an orthopaedic surgeon and I was told that I had a torn in my shoulder.

I was in a great pain. I could not lift my hands. Surgery was recommended but my children took me to the US and exercise was used to correct it. I recovered from it by the grace of God without surgery. I had a stroke in 1999. My children came and took me to the US for treatment. I was nursed back to normal life. It is God’s plan in my life to still be alive.

What is your favourite food?

Because of old age, I take a lot of fruit, eggs and so on but I must not take too much of carbohydrate. Although you may not notice it in me, I am diabetic. I obey the dos and don’ts as directed by my doctors.

How difficult was it for you to learn Yoruba?

My mother-in-law lived with us for 25 years. He saw our children grow up. She did not speak a word of English; so, the responsibility was on me to quickly understand Yoruba so that I could communicate with her and I did.

What differences did you notice in Nigeria now compared to your youthful days?

My youthful days were quite different from what is happening today. When I was growing up in Okija, Anambra State, women displayed their goods beside the road and buyers bought and put the money beside the goods even when the sellers were not there.

The owner would come intermittently to collect the money until the goods were sold out. You cannot do that today. If you do it, someone will steal everything and run away. In those days, people did not just leave the village and come back after a year with much wealth. People would ask questions about your wealth and tell you not to bring evil omen on the village. Today, people celebrate people who make wealth through evil means and give then chieftaincy titles they do not deserve.

If young people misbehave in those days, you didn’t have to wait for their parents to discipline them. Any elder can discipline a child who misbehaved and the children knew it. Today, we do not care anymore for other people’s children because we don’t want the parents to abuse us for disciplining their children.

In those days, young people listened to the advice of older people, but today, young people don’t take advice from older people. There is a huge moral deficit today.

What do you think is responsible for this moral rot?

Today, young people want to get rich overnight. All that they care for is money. In the past, people who got rich overnight were questioned and efforts were made to know the source of such money.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]