Handling a quarrelsome spouse
Having a quarrelsome partner can be challenging and frustrating especially when they say hurtful things that threaten your inner peace. Follow these tips to deal with a quarrelsome spouse

Calm down

According to www.wikihow.com, in the heat of the moment, your partner might say annoying and hurtful words to you. However, try not to let it upset you too much because anger and hurt can have negative effects on your mental and physical health. Rather than getting upset, take a few deep breaths or try listening to soothing music. It will help calm you down.

Define the problem

No one likes to quarrel. Try and figure out what triggers your partner’s annoyance and makes them quarrel with you. If your partner does not like your attitude on a particular subject, then, you need to work on your attitude so that there will be peace and harmony in your relationship. Once you can clearly articulate the problem, you will be able to address it better next time.

Offer to negotiate

Your partner might feel defensive if you demand that they immediately change their behaviour. The best way to get your partner to change his or her behaviour is by talking to him or her with a more sympathetic tone. For instance, you might offer to meet your partner halfway on an issue that bothers them – like helping out with house chores.

Clarify your feelings

When you are feeling stressed, it can be easy to allow yourself to become argumentative. Try to avoid this, and have a productive conversation with your partner instead. Make sure you tell your partner how their behaviour makes you feel and use ‘I’ statements to avoid shifting blame.

Encourage your partner to talk

The best way to understand your partner’s point of view is to listen to what he or she is saying. Take some time to work on improving your communication. Show that you are listening by maintaining eye contact and making gestures such as nodding. You can also indicate your interest by paraphrasing. For instance, “I hear you saying that you feel I don’t help out enough around the house.”

Find ways to agree

Have an open and honest conversation with your partner about their behaviour. Try to find common ground because you might actually both be frustrated by the same things. You could discover that you both don’t really work peacefully together on household chores. So, you can both create a fairer division of labour that will make you both happy.

Show affection

The quarrelling might be a serious problem for you. But remember, there are lots of things you love about your spouse. Reconnect with each other by being affectionate. Take time each day to hug your partner and be affectionate by complimenting them when they have a new hair style or hair cut.

Go to counselling

Counselling can be a great way for couples to learn new ways to communicate. Remember that sometimes, couples hit a rough patch especially if their efforts at fixing the problem don’t seem to be working. Consider getting a professional help. Ask your partner if they are willing to attend counselling with you. That way, you can work on solving the problem together. However, if they don’t want to go, you can go on your own because counselling will help you process your emotions.

Assume good intentions

When your partner is quarrelling with you, it is natural to focus on the negative and find them irritating and mean. Try to combat these feelings by thinking about their intentions; you may be surprised to find out that they really have your best interests at heart. For example, maybe your partner constantly picks a fight with you anytime you neglect your health. Take a moment to understand that they probably just care about your physical health.