One won’t fully appreciate one’s parents until one starts having kids — Oshinaike
Actor, performance coach and theatre director, Toyin Oshinaike, talks about the lessons fatherhood has taught him with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood is strictly a spiritual concept. It is an injunction from creation and it is to assume responsibility for the future.

At what age did you become a father?

I was 24 when I became a father. My wife and I just wanted to be together forever. We did what we had to do even though it was not legal. We were not married then. We started to put things together in readiness for marriage. It was something so different, something you think you knew about but which was deep. It was awesome and magical.

We were confounded with a question like, “Is it true that the romantic act we committed is able to bring about a child?” Of course, we knew a child was coming. But the reality gives it a fresh meaning. I think fatherhood gives you another opportunity to renew your love for your parents or wife.

Where were you when your daughter was born?

I was around when my wife gave birth to all my children. Before giving birth to our first child, she had been going for antenatal. When we saw the first sign that she needed to go to the hospital, we did. It, however, took a long time to give birth and she had to be induced. You can never be totally schooled for the painful experience. I thought I could be with her and console her but she didn’t want my consolation at that moment. When it was time for the baby to come, I was outside of the world and when she came, I became a father with so much joy.

Did you have a gender preference?

No. This was because, at the time, we knew the baby would be a girl. It was more beautiful so. I didn’t have a problem with gender because soon after, we had a boy. I now have three girls and two boys.

How did you choose her name?

Many things came to mind. I borrowed a leaf from the late Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe whose children’s other names were from other tribes in Nigeria. Because I was a staunch Catholic, it was traditional for children to have godfathers and godmothers. The first child was christened Oluwaseun. I didn’t think of the name. What came to mind were “thank you father” and many other concepts followed.

Tell us briefly about the memorable experience you had with your father.

One would not be able to appreciate one’s parents completely until one starts to have children. As a father, I realised what they went through to raise me. I was somewhere when my wife was on a radio programme and I had to help her hold my second child outside the station. She was still breastfeeding him then. I was under a tree outside and one Hausa man selling biscuit saw me fervently looking into the child’s face while he was sleeping. He said to me, “You love am well well?” I said yes. He said, “Na so your papa love you.” That statement was profound because he spoke the truth. What I learnt from my father was that in trying to beat the hell out of the child, you don’t beat the hell into the child. I measure how I use the cane to discipline a child.

Two things my father always warned me about were lying and stealing. In Yoruba, it is said that a child who lies will steal and that when he steals, he will be executed. When we were young, we saw how armed robbers were tied to the stakes at the beach and executed. My father took me to where some robbers were to be fired. When I heard the gunshots, I nearly ran away but he held me down to teach me a lesson what would befall a thief. My dad was a soldier and I grew up partially in the barracks. The discipline he instilled in me was memorable. In retrospect, my father has passed on but I miss him greatly.

Is he stricter than you in terms of disciplining kids?

I am into theatre but I will partly attribute my success to discipline which I inherited from his training. I must have taken the discipline from my father without knowing because I think I am strict. Sometimes, I would say, maybe I should not have beaten this child. I don’t beat my children often or mercilessly. Like the Yoruba say, I use my left hand to draw them closer when I beat them. I only use the cane once in a while. When I regret caning my children, it means I should not have done it. Sometimes, I tell them why I beat them. I don’t enjoy beating but when you need to do it, you have to do it. Punishment should be measured. I encourage them to tell me the truth. I don’t like to be lied to.

What are your greatest challenges as a father?

I think the greatest challenge has to do with the financial side of fatherhood. I have five children and some people gasp when they learn about it, saying, “Toyin, five children in this kind of economy?” I am an actor and most times, I travel abroad on tours sometimes six or five months and even within Nigeria but I am not rich. I am only rich as a human being. The biggest challenge is finance. My first daughter is married now. We are not ready to disturb each other now. The other four are in school. Sometimes, I had to meet their principals to bear with me on the excuse that my kind of job and the economy is not too good. We have been shouting that for years now but I thank God. I am happy that they are healthy.

What do your children tease you about?

Don’t mind my children. When I am very conscious, I pronounce five as ‘fav’. But when I am talking fast, I could say “fafhundred.” They tease me about that.

Is any of them into theatre?

All of them can act. My first daughter studied theatre arts at diploma level before studying mass communication. Another one is good at writing. They are creative and I feel like one day, we will do a play that involves my children and me, either on TV or on stage.

What gives you the best fulfilment?

My daughter’s marriage has made me fulfilled. I am blessed because some people train their children but the training is not evident. My father tried to train me. But those things he beat me for were like 10 per cent of the wrongdoings he knew I did. If I say my other wrongdoings near his grave now, he would wake up and give me some knocks.

My daughter was not under pressure to get married. When she said she wanted to get married, we trusted her choice of marriage. That is very fulfilling. My other boy has done well in his school certificate examinations and he is preparing strongly for the university. I am happy that at least, I don’t have to rush to the hospital as regularly as other parents do. Other than normal malaria and carelessness, we don’t have cause to go to the hospital. It is fulfilling that we are able to talk about current issues as a family. If I die today, they will be able to say that I did my best for them.

What relationship advice do you give your children?

We hear stories every day. My wife and I try to communicate it to them and let them know how to correct their mistakes and how not to make silly mistakes. When it comes to dangerous things at home such as electricity, I tell them 1,000 ways to die. I paint the picture of death to them.

My second son was oppressing his younger sister in a way. They are quite close but one day, I heard that he beat her. I told him the next time he beat my daughter, I would slap his mother in the face. He was shocked. Of course, I was not going to slap my wife but I needed to paint a picture of the extent of his wrongdoing to his sister by using that analogy.

I told him, “Don’t touch my daughter again because you never touch a woman.” They already know about being gay and being straight and of course, the plan of God. I let them know that if they don’t pass their examinations, I would never go to any school to beg for marks because I have friends there. The one who didn’t pass their final examinations had to do it again. There is no shortcut. That was how I was trained. I tell them it’s all about God and not about church. It is all about Jesus.

In African settings, some believe men are to provide for the home while the women handle the home. What is your view on this?

I do not agree, which is why my wife has been working since we got married. But now, I wish I have all the money to be able to save her the stress of having to juggle domestic and other roles. It’s also the woman’s choice.

What advice do you have for aspiring fathers?

I wish them well. I wish them the basic wherewithal to carry out their responsibilities as a father. I advise they don’t start feeling bigheaded about their roles. I advise them to be basically prepared for fatherhood by getting a job. The woman will want the best. They have to plan well, not waiting for the time to pay school fees before doing the needful. The country was good when we were producing children but suddenly, things went bad. So they have to prepare well.

What are your expectations for your children?

I don’t believe in telling my children that if I build one house, they should build 10 houses. We only need children who are innovative. They need to become something that will make them useful to their people and country. If you are going to be just rich, that is not enough. Mack Zuckerberg is not just rich today; he created something that makes an impact. If you are going to do science, do something special because they have been doing science in Nigeria since 19 gbogboro (for long). Yet, we are not able to manufacturer a bicycle. If you decide to be a doctor, how about taking time to devise means to create vaccines and other medical innovations?

If it is engineering, many things are lacking that today’s engineer can build. It is not about driving one flashy car. I enlighten them on these. When they are adults, they can make informed decisions. I teach them what is right and also give them the freedom to decide. I am hoping to be a grandpa someday but if my daughter and her husband decide that they don’t want to have children, it is all right. If any of my children say they don’t believe in marriage, it is also alright. I don’t have to force them to do things. Everything is a matter of choice.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]