Dad believes that to have more, you have to be generous — Hayford Alile’s daughters
Osayi and Nosa are two of the children of the pioneer Director-General of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, Apostle Hayford Alile. They talk about their father with GBENGA ADENIJI

Briefly tell us about yourself.

Osayi: I am the third of eight children. I am a social sector professional and currently the CEO of Aspire Coronation Trust Foundation, a grant-making non-profit organisation.

Nosa: I am Nosa Adetiba. I am the eighth child of the eight children (seven girls and a boy) of Apostle Hayford Alile. I studied at Hunter College, New York, US. I currently work as a marketing professional. I consult and raise money for non-profit organisations and professionals.

Did any of your siblings train as an economist?

Osayi: Interestingly, none of us toed the path of our dad. We grew up with the liberty to choose career paths that resonated with us.

Nosa: None of us trained as an economist but he always encouraged us to follow our passions and talents, that it would make us successful if we do what we are passionate about.

Did he specifically encourage any of his children to follow in his career path?

Osayi: My dad encouraged us to chase our dreams and live our own lives because he believes we all have different purposes in life.

Nosa: No, he didn’t push any of us to do what he has done. He only encouraged us to follow our passions and do what we are good at to the best of our abilities.

What memories can you recall growing up with your father?

Osayi: My father is a doting and caring parent. A man consistently interested in the welfare of people. I fondly remember numerous weekends spent with my family giving back – sharing food and making different donations. It was our Sunday routine.

I still remember when I gained admission into the Federal Government Girls College, Warri, being miles away from home, my father ensured he wrote me a letter every month and you can imagine my joy when on visiting day, I sighted his car miles away.

Nosa: I have many memories growing up with my dad but my fondest memory with him is that we used to watch World Wrestling Federation together. It is now called World Wresting Entertainment. We watched it a lot together and wrestled each other and he always let me win him. When I was about six years old, I would go to his room and we would fight playfully and wrestled. Every time we were travelling, we would all gather in the room and he would sing Tracy Chapman’s She’s got her ticket/ I think she gonna use it/ I think she going to fly away….

How comfortable was his family when he moved up the ladder of his career?

Osayi: My father has always been a family-oriented person. I grew up not only with my nuclear family but with cousins, uncles and aunties who he felt he could help or support in one way or the other.

As his career kept growing, he ensured he spent time serving God and his family. He made sure we still said our family evening prayers together, went on family vacations and did things as a family. My father was conveniently able to manage his career and his family.

Nosa: I came really late and by the time I came, he was already established in his career. This is a question for my older siblings but I always tell everyone that as busy as he and my mother were, they always made time for us. We always knew our place in the family. I always felt like an only child even though I have seven older siblings. I always feel special and not just a number in the family.

Economists are believed to be frugal about money matters. How did your father advise his children on issues related to finances?

Osayi: I currently manage my finances quite efficiently because of the values my father has impacted on me. As children, we were raised early on to save and prioritise our expenses. My father is also very conservative and not wasteful because he believed that with thousands of people suffering, managing resources is key. Till date, he remains my greatest financial adviser.

Nosa: One, he advises us to spend within our means. Two, he always says that it is good to be generous. He always says that if you don’t give, you don’t get anything back. Even as he advises us to live within our means and not go into debt, he urges us to give others not only our money but also our time etc. He wants us to save, be wise but to also give. Empty your pocket, so more money can come in, he always tells us that.

What is his idea of discipline?

Osayi: My father believes in the scripture; spare the rod and spoil the child. As such, he was deliberate about correcting us with love and reprimanding us when we erred. His mode of discipline is through wise counsels and conversations.

Nosa: I think I can count the number of times my father spanked me. As a naughty teenager, he never really spanked me. He always used words more than the cane and when he did use it, I knew that I deserved it. When one sees the disappointment in his face, it carries more weight than spanking.

How does he like to relax?

Osayi: My father relaxes by spending time with his family. He also loves reading and playing scrabble. When he was younger, he also played badminton and table tennis.

Nosa: When I was younger, I think he loved listening to gospel music. He sings too even though he does have a great voice (laughs). He enjoys praise and worship. Like I said earlier, he liked Tracy Chapman. My sisters told me when I came around that he also liked Diana Ross.

Does he exercise?

Nosa: He and my mother take a long walk around the neighbourhood. They are now members of a gym and they go there twice weekly and also go swimming.

When you were overseas studying, how often did he visit you?

Nosa: He did visit. I saw my parents two or three times a year either I came home or they visited.

What is his favourite food?

Osayi: My dad loves pounded yam with okro soup and stew.

Nosa: I cannot remember but I know he used to take a bottle or two of soft drink daily. He has stopped now that he is old and more health conscious. But that used to be his favourite drink. He also likes Bini food. He likes owo a lot. It is a soup that some people take with yam.

What kind of father is he?

Osayi: My father is an all-round exemplary leader. He is a loving, kind and committed father to me, my siblings and his grandchildren. My father is one that always puts his family first and would give his life for us. My father is a role model.

Nosa: He is very patient, kind and loving with me. Like I said earlier, I was not the best teenager. He has eight children, a wife and lots of spiritual children and he always makes out time for everybody. He knows what we all like and he would buy what we would love. He knows I like to sing and he bought me CDs. He bought us books and encouraged us to read.

I remember when I was younger and my friends would come around to play. He would ask us to stop whatever we were doing, take a paper, pen and write about what we would like to be when we grew up. Even if we were doing nothing and he asked us what we were doing and we said nothing, he would ask us to write him an essay about nothing. Then, I just wanted to play with my friends but now, I understand why he did that; there should be a time to play and a time to work.

Where did he take his family to for relaxation?

Osayi: Growing up my dad took us to the beach for picnics and to watch plays.

Nosa: When he was younger, we used to go to the beach and Lacapine Tropicana. We used to go out for dinner. There was something he always did. If he was around, we used to have dinner together. We would have conversations about our lives and day. If his wife is out, he wouldn’t eat until she is back. He really didn’t speak to us as children, not that he shared sensitive information with us, but though he is our father, there is friendship and advice in the conversations he had with us.

What values did you learn from him?

Osayi: I learnt compassion, honesty, peacemaking, love and resilience.

Nosa: I imbibed integrity, honestly, generosity and love from him. He always says even if you are cleaning the floor, do it as if you are doing it for God. He speaks with everyone with respect no matter who they are. I always say that my parents did a great job having eight children and we are all level-headed. We are extremely close too and it stems from watching our parents being close.

How does his name open doors for you when people know you are his child?

Osayi: My father raised us to be independent of him. He never encouraged us to ride on his success for personal growth. He ensured we made a name for ourselves and carved a niche for ourselves.

Nosa: Well, anywhere I go and people ask for my maiden name and I say, “Alile”, they will say, “Your father is a good man.” It fills me with pride. He never encouraged us on nepotism but a good name will take one to many places.

What kind of music does he listen to?

Osayi: He likes gospel music.

How is he adjusting to life as a cleric?

Nosa: My father became an apostle almost 30 years ago; so, he is not adjusting. It is his lifestyle for as long as I have known him.

What does he do in retirement?

Nosa: Definitely his church. I know he still holds some positions on some boards. He is also enjoying being a grandfather and spending time with his lovely wife.

Does being the child of Hayford Alile put any burden on you in terms of societal expectations?

Nosa: Not pressure so to speak but I do know that the sky is my starting point. You cannot come from a family of successful people and think it is just okay to do nothing with life. I do know that there are places I can still go in my career and other aspects of my life.

How do you feel being his daughter?

Nosa: I am very proud to be his daughter. I don’t live in the country; so, his name necessarily doesn’t open doors for me in New York. But I say his name with pride. He is a great dad, a great man of God and a great man in Nigeria.

Your father continues to live for public good even at close to 80. What are you most proud of about him?

Nosa: It is his love for God. It is very evident. He is not the type that says one thing and leads another life. Just being his child is a proof that God loves me. He chooses such an exemplary father for me because He loves me. I am very proud of the way he has loved his wife and carries her like an egg and proud of the way he has raised his children. I am also proud of the way he has worked for the good of Nigeria. I can say with no shame and no fear that my father has worked for Nigeria’s greatness.

Would you have wished your father is anything else but an economist?

Nosa: I know he is a smart man and I wouldn’t have wished he is anything different. But he could have been an amazing teacher. I think so. He is a patient teacher.

Who are your father’s friends?

Nosa: His wife is his best friend. Also, Uncle Remi Olowude (burst into tears) who passed on a few years ago and the late Chief Bayo Kuku.

What books appeal to him?

Nosa: He likes the Bible and any book that would connect him to God and finding one’s purpose in life. Also, he likes books about personal growth and finances.

How would you describe his schedule as the pioneer Director-General of the Nigerian Stock Exchange?

Nosa: Again, he was already a director-general of the NSE by the time I was born. I remember going to his office a lot as a kid on days I had no school. He would let me come to his office and help them with papers. I used to shred lots of papers for them in the office. It was fun. Because he was busy, it was his way of making time for me. He has taught us integrity and honesty merely watching him and what people say about him. He also taught us peace of mind knowing that you can go to bed as you have not done any harm to anybody; at least intentional harm, as you can hurt someone unintentionally. He worries a lot because he has lots of people that depend on him.

How close are you to him?

Nosa: When I was a teenager, I didn’t appreciate our relationship. We are pretty close but if I had any issue, I would call my mother first. If I wanted to pass any information to him, I went through his wife.

Your father will be 80 in two days. How does his family plan to celebrate him?

Nosa: We are going to have a small party for him. His children, grandchildren, in-laws, family and friends will be around to celebrate him. We want to let him know that he is appreciated and loved for his sacrifice and love. We are grateful for what he and his wife have done for us.

What advice did he give about life and relationship?

Nosa: Living with integrity, following one’s passion and to always do one’s best no matter what one is doing.

What is the Hayford Alile Foundation all about?

My father believes in giving back to society. The foundation offers grants to people who want to further their education.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]