Dealing with a stubborn spouse
Dealing with an obstinate spouse can be challenging and frustrating. However, be patient and keep in mind that learning the best way to work with them will help you understand them better. Here are a few tips on how to deal with a stubborn partner

Understand why your partner is being stubborn

According to www.lifehack.org, understand that you and your partner are two different people; so, your perspectives to issues might be different. Rather than judging your partner, try to understand where he or she is coming from. Always remember that being in a relationship means you are ready to work out your differences and make sacrifices.

Take a positive approach

The key to knowing how to deal with a stubborn spouse is to avoid hostility or violence of any kind. Fighting or shouting is never the answer. The important thing is to keep cool so that you would be able to talk or negotiate the issue calmly and reasonably. Remember there is nothing a good talk can’t solve.

Pick your battles

Resist the urge to engage in an argument with your partner especially when you don’t agree with their opinion on an issue. Learn to control your emotions and don’t let your anger get the better part of you. Rather than quarrelling with your partner, try having a conversation with them and listen. Also, keep an open mind.

Go slow

Wait for the best moment to make your point. Find out first if your partner is calm before talking. This is a process. Learn to wait. Understand that a stubborn person suffers from temporary hearing loss and the only opinion they hear is theirs.

Don’t give attention

This is one of the most important tips to deal with a stubborn partner. If you give attention to your partner’s stubborn nature, you will be actually encouraging them to continue being stubborn. By ignoring your partner’s stubbornness, it will make them have a rethink about their attitude towards you.

Talk more

It is best to talk and discuss about the problems your partner’s stubborn nature is having on the relationship. Sort out the problems with your partner by talking and see the change. You can calmly explain to your partner why it is necessary that he or she change his or her behaviour to improve your relationship.

Be firm

The reason why stubborn people often get their way is because the people around them often cave in and let them get exactly what they want. If your partner starts to get emotional or visibly upset, slow down until he or she feels more calm, but don’t give in to everything he or she wants. It will give your partner the impression that he or she can manipulate your emotions and get you to give up what you want easily. Being firm means sticking to your side of the story and offering a rational and logical argument why your idea is important. It does not mean getting aggressive or shouting. Stubborn people are already defensive, and this kind of behaviour will only make them feel more threatened.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]