It’s funny that water was the first word my baby learnt — Obideyi
An entrepreneur and mother of a one-year-old baby, Mrs. Bolaji Obideyi, shares her motherhood experience with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

When and where was your child born?

My daughter was born at State Hospital, Akure, the Ondo State capital, on January 27, 2017. I have another child who is also a girl.

How did you feel when you discovered that you were pregnant with your second baby?

I was really happy because I always wished my children would be two years apart, so she came at the right time and according to my plan.

How would you compare your experience weaning both children?

They both have their uniqueness. My second child was small but quite strong after birth. She was trying to free herself from the nurse immediately she was born. My first daughter loved to be by my side and doesn’t like to be carried by anybody after eating. But the second daughter made it easier for me because she is free with people and this enables me to attend to other things, including my business.

Since you already have a girl, did you prefer the second child to be a boy?

I’m not really into gender preference, but I was really happy when my second child came as a girl.

Describe your labour experience.

A day before I put to bed, I was feeling heavy kicks in my stomach. Since it wasn’t the first time I would fall into labour, I told myself that it was a false alarm. Around 3am on January 27, I woke up and wasn’t feeling fine.

I started washing the bathroom, toilet and cleaning all the louvres. My husband was shocked to see me working at that hour. When I went into labour, I usually tried to work. In the morning of the same day, I decided to go to the hospital for my regular checkup. I was told I couldn’t go back again since I was already 3cm dilated.

How did you choose your baby’s name?

My husband and I suggested one Yoruba name and English name. Our parents added theirs too.

Tell us a story that best depicts the joy and pain of motherhood.

After the birth of my first daughter, she became sick three days later. When I was told that she would be admitted to the hospital, I started crying. As a mother, I never stayed in the hospital until I gave birth. So, I wonder why my daughter would begin her tender life in such a place? I was scared for my baby. I kept asking myself why she had to be sick. All through my days in the hospital, I was not alright. I couldn’t sleep nor eat. My joy knew no bounds when she was eventually discharged.

What would you say is the most difficult part of weaning a baby and how did you surmount it?

I had to back her every night for like a week before she got used to sleeping without breastfeeding. It was another vigil for me.

What were the initial fears you had about pregnancy and have they changed based on your experience?

The fear I had was the pangs and horror of the labour room. This was because I had heard others talk about it and the experiences were usually not palatable. Over time, I believed God had a reason for making it so because the joy of bringing forth a child is wonderful.

What was the first word your baby learnt to say and how did you feel about that?

The first word she learnt was “water.” And it was really funny. This was because I was expecting her to learn to say either “mummy” or “daddy” first.

What types of food were you eating during pregnancy?

I loved eating things I don’t eat on a normal day like beans, yam, abacha, pineapple, meat etc.

Share a funny experience while you were pregnant.

I remember when I was seven months pregnant. I craved abacha (cassava mixed with oil, vegetables, pepper and garden egg). It’s an Igbo delicacy. I loved it so much, especially during pregnancy.

I got to the market that day and didn’t see any abacha seller. I started crying, begging people to help me look for one. I was moving from one stall to another, with the hope that I would sight one of the sellers.

The women at the market there knew my predicament; so, they volunteered to look for one for me. Those who had phone numbers of abacha sellers started making calls on my behalf. Eventually, I got one and I stopped crying. I ate the abacha like a starving child. It’s like the feeling of bribing a small girl with sweet to stop crying. I will never forget that experience (laughs).

Did your baby arrive at the exact date predicted by your doctor?

Not exactly! The predicted dates were between 12 and 18 February. But she came in January.

How did you cope with mood swings during pregnancy?

I took things easy and also read books. Sometimes, I just stayed indoors. The biggest challenge was balancing everything together, business, home and children.

How do you interact with your children?

Mother and child already have a link created by God. That’s the umbilical cord and so, it comes naturally. Since they are both under four years old, I praise and scold them when I need to. I also create time to chat with them.

When driving, I don’t normally play music. I just make them talk and show me what they see, then we sing (I always love that).

Some new mums find breastfeeding painful. Was that your experience?

I did exclusive breastfeeding for both kids and it was worth it. Since I’m into my own business, I had the time. It’s only when they use their gum while breastfeeding that I feel the pain but if they were well positioned, then no problem.

Compare your life as spinster and mother?

Before I became a mother, I had time to do lots of things without worry. Now with kids, I just can’t take my bag and travel without planning, which must include them. Before, I think of myself alone but now, I must think of what will benefit them.

How do you balance motherhood and your career?

I am a graduate of English and Literary Studies and also obtained a diploma in French. But I am now into food business. Specifically, I sell ponmo (cow skin), mixed with pepper and chips, for lunch and also for parties. Because it’s a self-run business, I enjoy a bit of freedom which makes it easier for me to manage the home and my kids. I sometimes take my baby with me for delivery of food items or drop her with my mum. That makes it easy for me even though it’s challenging, God has been faithful.

What part of your body changed during pregnancy that you didn’t like?

After my birth, my body changed. I knew it’s the sacrifice I have got to pay as a mother for bringing forth my beautiful kids. I made up my mind to accommodate the changes.

What advice did your mother or relatives give you about motherhood that helped you to date?

The advice I was given was that every mother must learn to be patient.

Are you overprotective of your baby?

I honestly think that it is normal to be protective but not overprotective of one’s child. You alone can’t take care of your baby. So, mothers need support. When such support is available, embrace it so as not to be overly worked up.

What experiences would you want to create for your child?

Since they are both girls, they need to learn how to stand firm, be courageous, and humble. I am training them to have good self-esteem because some ladies tend to have low self-esteem about their gender.

How many hours of sleep do you get at night when she was born?

That is an interesting question because, in the first month, I could only sleep at night for just two to three hours but as the she grew, things got better.

What did you find irritating/interesting in hospitals?

Pregnancies come with different challenges.

What I found interesting is the way you go in screaming during labour and the next you see mothers smiling and laughing. Kudos to all mothers in the world!

Famous quote

A baby is something you carry inside you for nine months, in your arms for three years and in your heart till the day you die — A singer, Mary Mason

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]