Fatherhood not about bullying, abusing children –Bisi Adewale
Marriage counsellor and President of Family Booster Ministries and College of Marital Success, Pastor Bisi Adewale, shares his joys of fatherhood with DOLAPO AKITOYE

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood is deeper than how people normally see it. Normally, biology recognises a father as a person who is responsible for the conception of the child. So, anybody that does that is a father and anybody can do that. It is like parenthood. Parenthood is just the art of bringing up a child. Parenthood is quite different from parenting. A father is also quite different from a dad. Anybody can father a child but when you practise fatherhood, it is supposed to be in the light of being a dad to that child. So, a dad is dependable; a daddy is available; he is not a midnight father, a runaway or a visiting father. He is available to attend Parent-Teacher Association meetings and his kid’s end-of-year parties.

He is available to attend cultural day, inter-house sports and he is available to pick the child from the crèche once in a while and to also check the assignments of the children. Most men have exonerated themselves from most of the things that I mentioned and they allow only the women to do it. If you allow only the women to do all those things, you are a father and not a dad. A daddy is distinct. He is a man of distinction and a man of character. He is someone who can tell the children to follow him and to do the things that he does and if the children follow him, they will prosper. A daddy is also a disciplined man. He is also disciplined enough to save money to meet the needs of his family, to pay the children’s school fees, the house rent and many other things. A daddy is also the yoke with his family; the family is written in the centre of his heart. He is ready to live and die for the family.

A daddy is an evening person, as when he closes from work, he goes back home because evening time is the family time. He would want to spend time with his family. All of these, I was able to enjoy from my own dad and I am now making my children to enjoy them. However, when you make the house difficult for the children and they begin to run helter-skelter when you come back, you are just a father and not a daddy.

How did you meet your wife?

I met my wife on campus. Both of us went to the same school and attended the same fellowship. We actually met at the fellowship. As a child of God, I proposed the way a child of God proposes. I prayed about it and the Lord led me to her. People normally shy away from that but as a genuine child of God, your father (God) should be able to talk and speak to you.

I was a leader in the fellowship and there were so many other sisters but God pointed out my wife as the one for me. So, after our final year examination, I called her and I asked her to marry me. She said she was going to pray about it. I spoke to her on July 7 of that year and she took her time to pray and check it well. She gave me an answer on December 18. However, before she got back to me, I was still waiting because I knew that God led me to her and if God led me, I knew God will speak to her.

Did you get married at an age you considered early or late?

I made up my mind that I would not enter into my thirties unmarried; so, I got married at 29. I planned to get married between 27 and 28 but because of academics, the Lagos State University strike and all of that, I eventually got married at 29.

When did you become a father?

I became a father about two years after our wedding because we decided not to start raising children immediately. We waited so that we could get stabilised, get financial footing and all those things before we start raising children.

Were you in the labour room with your wife?

No. the hospital did not permit that but I was by the door.

How did you feel when you heard that your wife had given birth?

I had actually gone out of the hospital to pick some things and by the time I got back, I was told that my wife had given birth. They told me to come and see the baby but I insisted that I see my wife first. When I saw that she was alright, I went to look at the baby.

How did you feel when you held the baby in your arms for the first time?

I felt the same way a man will feel. I felt like ‘this is my carbon copy that is not me but it is me’. It was a mysterious feeling. It gave me a kind of joy that nobody can really explain.

How many children do you have?

We have three biological children and many spiritual children.

Did you wish for a particular gender before your children were born?

I actually knew that she would give birth to a boy first. Before we got married, the Lord had already told me the name of our first son and he also revealed his gender to me and I discussed with my wife. In fact, before she got pregnant, we had been using his name to pray and when the baby was in the womb, we did the same thing. So, we knew that the first two children would be boys and the last will be a girl.

What set you on your career path as a pastor and a marriage counsellor?

I am a counsellor but I do not pastor any church. I am full-time family minister. Family ministry is a calling. I studied accounting at the university and I am supposed to be working in a financial institution but towards my final year, as we were preparing for the last paper, I was reading and the Lord told me that He wanted to meet me on the field and talk to me. It was not a night that any accounting student would take lightly because those were our core courses. However, God told me that He wanted to talk to me. I went to the field and the Lord told me that He wanted to use me to revive, repair, renew, remold and rejuvenate all debilitated homes and that He wanted to raise people for the end-time revival using the home unit. He was so particular about the home unit and that was why I did not go ahead and start a church. He told me not to look for any accounting or financial jobs. Immediately after my service year, I went into it fully.

Have you always had a great relationship with God?

I was raised by Christian parents. My parents were very zealous for the Lord and though as a child, normally in secondary school, you want to become a rebel but my parents were praying, tutoring, training and monitoring us. After some time, it was God himself that ministered to me. That is why I normally tell people that being a pastor’s child does not make you a godly Christian. You have to have a personal encounter with God and I had that encounter on October 5, 1992. At that period, I was busy in the church – I was a Sunday schoolteacher, a chorister and also busy with other departments but I had not known God personally. However, I had been reading a book called ‘Forces of Darkness’ by Victoria Eto and it was that book that God used as a tool of my encounter and I gave my life to Him.

How have you been able to manage your career and roles as a father?

I am a full-time family minister and a marriage counsellor and I have to practise what I preach. In fact, sometimes, you have to practise at home before you export it outside. As I work for myself, it gives me more flexibility to create time for my family. Even though, I am very busy travelling all around the world and ministering, I make it mandatory not to travel back-to-back and that made me to reduce the number of programmes I do in a week. For me, evening time is family time.

Are you under pressure to portray yourself as a great husband and father in society being a man of God?

When you are a pastor, people expect a level of character in you and that makes some people to pretend to be what they are not. However, I do not have any pressure on me. I try to do my best to practise what I preach but I am not doing anything to satisfy anybody. I am not doing it to satisfy society. I do not want to live my life to satisfy people; I want to live my life to satisfy God. So, every day, I have to check myself and make sure I am in tune with Him.

How did your father raise you?

My father was an open person. He was loving and caring. He always sat down to tell us different stories. He also taught us the word of God. He did not go to school but the little he knew about the Bible, he taught us. He thoroughly raised us to prepare us for the future.

What values did you imbibe from your father that now guide you as a father?

There were many things I learnt from him. One of them was to always connect with my children, play with them and also make the house conducive for them. I learnt that you don’t make the house a garrison for the children. You don’t make yourself a commander-in-chief of family forces. He also had a good relationship with my mother, and so, I learnt how to be a good husband from him as well as fatherhood. I also learnt good Christian life from him. My parents were married for over 50 years.

What has been your major challenge as a father?

I don’t like to talk about challenges because life is all about challenges. The only thing I can say is that I wish I had more time to spend with my children but with any other thing, I hand it over to God.

What has been your happiest moment as a father?

My happiest moment is any time that I spend with my children. Another happiest moment is when I see my children praying or studying the word of God personally.

What were the things that prepared you for fatherhood?

My training as a family coach and my relationship with my father really prepared me for fatherhood. In fact, my aspiration is to be a father exactly like him.

How do you punish your children when they misbehave?

It depends. I can punish them through ‘time out’ or spanking. The Bible supports ‘rod of correction’ and not ‘rod of affliction’. ‘Rod of correction’ is when you let a child know what he or she does wrong and you discipline the offending child by spanking based on the child’s offence without inflicting injury on him or her. I do discipline by spanking but it is not something that I do often. The most important thing for me is for the child to recognise what he or she does wrong. I normally enjoy seeing a repentant child.

How do you reward them when they do well?

Rewards come in many forms. It can be through gifts or hugging – because I hug them a lot.

Do any of your children want to follow in your footsteps?

All of them will serve the Lord and they are taking steps to follow our path but they will follow their own professional desires. Some of them love to write because they have seen books I wrote.

How do you relax?

I relax with my family. We watch television together, play together and we do activities together.

What do you think is responsible for marriage breakups?

Divorce rate is rising all over the world, especially in urban areas. The way it is rising in the city is not the same way it is in the village. The bigger a city is, the bigger the strain on the family. For example, one of the major enemies of marriages in Lagos is transport. Imagine a woman leaving the house at 4am and coming back at 11pm. How will she be a wife?

Another problem is infidelity. The Internet and mobile phones have opened up another level of infidelity. In the days of our parents, people persevered in marriage but nowadays, people see it as a tissue paper that they can change anyhow and this is not good for our society.

What in your opinion makes marriages work?

The number one thing is the fear of the Lord. If you fear God, there are things you will not do. There are about 21 pillars that make a marriage work and the fear of God is the master key. Another key is the key of wisdom. Another one is communication which involves talking and listening. People talk but do not listen and listening is very important. In a good marriage, you don’t just listen to the mouth, you listen to the heartbeat.

How do you appreciate your wife?

I appreciate her in many ways. I appreciate her through gifts, through public display of affection. There was a programme we did at the national stadium last year and there were several people there. I wanted to appreciate her and I did a short video about her life and she didn’t know about it.

In the stadium, I had everybody stand up and I said a few things about her and then I put on the video. She was in tears. She is a fantastic lady that must be appreciated forever. She is loving and selfless. She is everything.

What would be your advice to children without fathers?

They should find godly father figures. They should have godly mentors who can father them; people that will not take advantage of them. Everybody needs a father figure.

What advice would you give to would-be fathers?

They should keep learning and read books on parenting. They should also attend seminars and learn as much as they can.

What do you think is the cause of parental failure?

The cause of parental failure is lack of wisdom. Africans are fond of repeating the same mistakes of yesteryear; we bully and abuse our children. We don’t raise them with love and we don’t appreciate them. These are the things we need to address in society.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]