Dad took an interest in football because of us — Ahmed Yerima’s son
Roger is one of the children of popular playwright, lecturer and theatre director, Prof. Ahmed Yerima. He talks about his father with GBENGA ADENIJI

Tell us about yourself.

I am Roger, an architect. I am the third child of the five children (comprising four boys and a girl) of Prof. Ahmed Yerima.

Why didn’t you pursue a career in the arts since your father is an established university teacher, playwright and theatre director?

As you rightly said, he is an established playwright and theatre director. I know that theatre arts is a creative aspect of the mind likewise architecture. It is not that his children didn’t follow in his career path, the only thing is that we channelled the creativity we got from him to other aspects.

What is his idea of discipline?

My father is not the type who uses the rod to correct any child who misbehaves, but he would scold one if one does anything wrong. He is quite strict especially if he has made a decision on a particular matter. This makes us grow up well and better for it. I remember when I was younger and he punished me for giving out some money without his knowledge. I got lots of coins as change from buying sweets and biscuits. He then gave me jars to keep the N1 and N50k coins. Some beggars used to come to the neighbourhood and I would empty the money from the jars and give them. They thus made it a routine. He came home one day and saw them. They told him they wanted to see me because I used to give them lots of coins. He called me after he had given them money and they left that I should be careful in order not to give a wrong impression about things. I understood what he was trying to say perfectly as young as I was then. My father has a way of explaining things to one in a detailed and careful way that one will understand what he is trying to hit at. We became open-minded as children because we were treated as adults even when we were young.

How did he create bonding time for his children?

He created individual moment for each of his children. Each of us can say he or she had a particular moment with him when he took the child out to watch a play or do a certain thing. It usually started from washing his car and the child would be asked to be prepared to go out with him to have a good time. Sometimes on Sunday, he would ensure to take us out.

What does he do when he wants to write at home?

He always explained his characters to us and what he intended to achieve. I always feel like I have met some of the characters in his plays such as Hard Ground, Idemili and others.

How does he relax?

Mostly on Sunday, he would wake up early to do whatever he has to do. Later, he watches the television.

Have you ever watched him teach?

Yes, I watched him teach at the University of Lagos while he was still there. At the time, I was still seeking admission to the institution to study architecture. That day, I went to his department where he was having a class before leaving for the department I eventually graduated from.

Does being the child of an academic put you under any pressure to study hard?

My father always said something that I took seriously and I know that my siblings did too. He would say, ‘If you repeat, I wouldn’t pay your school fees because I already know the number of times I would pay the school fees of any child.’ My mother is a judge who is also strict like my father though he is more comical.

Is there any difference between Ahmed Yerima the scholar-playwright and Ahmed Yerima the father at home?

I believe my father has a good balance as a father and lecturer-writer though he can be totally free at home.

What is his favourite meal?

My father likes solid food. He likes ponmo (cow skin) and ila asepo (mixed okro soup). But there is a seasoning that must be added to the soup. It is packaged in a bottle. I have known him with the seasoning for long.

What is his favourite drink?

Before now, he had a big jug which he used to mix a concoction of soft drink and stout with iced block. But now, he takes only water.

What kind of preferential treatment did you enjoy while in the university as a son of a professor?

Funnily enough, by the time I was fully settled in the university, he went to the Kwara State University. Some of his friends were also among my lecturers but he only advised me to study hard as he would not talk to lecturers on my behalf. I know he wouldn’t do that. He told me that no lecturer would intimidate me if I didn’t misbehave.

What kind of father is he?

He is rational and takes calculated decisions.

Which of his creative works do you enjoy most and why?

The one I love most is The silent gods. It is about the death of a king and the search for a new king. They ask the oracle and many try to use money to influence the decision in searching for a new king. I was thrilled by the twist in the work and that makes me to start reading his plays.

How does he react when angry?

He hardly shouts when upset. He would rather sit down and reflect on the situation, may be because he is a professor. He prefers to see the matter from the perspective of the other person.

Your father speaks Yoruba, Igbo and other languages. What is the language of communication at home?

We communicate in Yoruba, Hausa and English at home. Sometimes, if we are talking among ourselves, we speak in Yoruba to understand the depth of some things. They can also speak to us in Hausa if they want to send us certain messages.

Did he tell you about his police father and how his values had great impact on his life?

Yes, he did. From what I could tell, his father was strict and it helped in making him a better person.

How would you say his name opens doors for you?

It depends on the setting because when I was into the designs of shoes and went to meet artists, there seemed to be an overwhelming reception. In terms of his name opening doors, my father always tells us to have something to offer and not rely on his name. That even if his name came up, it would just be an added advantage.

What kind of music does he enjoy?

He listens to Barry White. He loves old hits in the 60s and 70s. He also enjoys Fela, Scott Bradley and others.

Does he like football?

He got interested in football and started watching matches when he discovered that we are interested in it. For instance, I am a Manchester United fan and my brother is an Arsenal fan. He doesn’t see it that way but he watches football matches with us.

How does he behave when he is happy?

When he is happy, one will know. One will see the innocence of how a child laughs in him.

What do you think he can splurge money on?

He loves good cars. Everything I knew about cars I learnt from him. He likes Range Rover.

What would you wish to change about your father?

There is nothing to change about my father. My prayer for him is to be the minister of tourism at least to effect some changes because I know he would do well. When he headed the National Theatre, I was aware of the positive things he did.

Does he dance?

Well, I think he is better at creative dances than what I can call real dance.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]