Dealing with a lying partner
Lying can make a relationship problematic. It can be a serious form of betrayal, if you catch your spouse telling lies. JOY MARCUS gives a few tips to help a lying partner

Understand why your partner lies

According to www.relationshipsandfamily.com, you need to have a heart-to-heart talk with your partner and ask him or her questions about their lying habit. Although there are cases where your partner would want to talk about it, making them understand that talking about their lying habit will improve your relationship and make you trust them more is important. When you understand the reason why your spouse lies, it can help you figure out the right way to help him or her out of it. If you discover that the reason your spouse lies to you is because you are hot-tempered and always confrontational, then you probably need to watch how you react to him or her when you are told the truth; because sometimes your partner might be lying to preserve the relationship.

Try to help them

Lying is a weakness. When you discover that your partner lies to you, don’t make them feel terrible or hopeless. Try to help them, in love. If your partner lies to you, it simply shows that they cannot face the consequences of their actions. However, this is not a permanent problem; it can be fixed with the right support.

Trying to support a lying partner can be hard, but if you try, you might find it helpful. Every time your spouse lies to you, let them know that they are not speaking the truth, but ensure you find out if it is a lie before saying so because sometimes they may be speaking the truth.

This way, you wouldn’t hurt their feelings and your partner would realise that you know the truth but did not react. It may also cause your spouse to have a change of heart and stop lying.

Make your partner comfortable around you

If your partner turns up late at night and tells you they had a flat tyre, don’t argue, insult or accuse them of lying because you don’t have the facts. If you feel what he or she said is not true, make attempts to find out the truth. If you get the truth, then tell them that you know they didn’t have a flat tyre. Tell them exactly what happened and let them know you are not condemning them but speaking the truth will be helpful for you. This has a way of making them sober.

Ignore the lies

This is very difficult but it could be helpful. Ignore your partner’s lies means that you will take whatever they tell you as the truth. If your spouse says black is white, then you take it from them. When you ignore the lies, it sets your mind at peace, but if you can’t ignore the lies, confront them.

Speak to someone more experienced

This could be really helpful because the person will advise you based on his or her experience and give you tips that might make your partner have a change of heart.

Encourage them to speak to a counsellor

If your spouse doesn’t know why they lie, they may need some help. Instead of doing it all alone, you can recommend that he or she seeks the help of a counsellor. A counsellor will be able to isolate the problem and proffer helpful solutions.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]