My kids tease me that I don’t like foreign, polished foods –Ogirima
President of the Nigerian Medical Association, Prof. Mike Ogirima, shares his fatherhood experience with DOLAPO AKITOYE

How would you describe fatherhood?

A father is the head of a family and fatherhood means making sure that your family receives the best care possible and they are well protected. It also means, making sure that they have the right attitude with God.

Some men married at a time considered late. Did you experience that?

Of course! In African culture, the age of maturity of men to marry differs. It depends on your social surroundings, upbringing and education. For some illiterates back home, they marry earlier than the age of 25. For somebody, who is well educated, you discover that most men, after their university education, will like to settle down with a good job and work before marriage. Of course, I married at 29 and I consider it late, maybe because of my education. I was trying to compare myself with my mates who married earlier than me. There is nothing stopping any man getting married while in school, if you have a well-to-do family who can sponsor the marriage.

I will prefer a man to get married around 25 so that by the time he is maturing into the marriage, his children are already grown up and it is less of a burden.

How did you meet your wife?

God sent my wife to my hospital environment and assessing how she cared for a patient, I knew that she was the kind of woman I needed to have as a wife. We started as friends and she is still my best friend till today. As she had the right criteria that I needed as a wife, I told her that I wanted to marry her and it was as simple as that.

When did you become a father?

I became a father at the age of 33.

How did you feel when you heard of the birth of your first child?

I was around my wife and I felt excited.

Were you in the labour room with her?

I was around the labour room. For the fact that I am a doctor, I was not allowed to enter the labour room with her.

How did you feel when you held your child for the first time?

It was awesome, beautiful, reassuring and hopeful.

Were you apprehensive when your wife was in the labour room?

Being a doctor, I was not very apprehensive. I knew that it was a normal physiological process and if well managed, there will be no complications. She gave birth in a very good hospital environment supervised by obstetricians and there were many midwives around too. There were also lots of good facilities to handle the challenges of labour.

How many children do you have?

I have six children.

Did you wish for any particular gender before any of your children were born?

No, because the sex of a child is pre-determined by God. I didn’t wish for a particular gender. My mind was open for whatever God gave me.

What is the gender of your children?

I have four boys and two girls.

How have you been able to manage your being a doctor and as a father?

It has been very tough because I am in a very demanding profession. I am an orthopaedic surgeon, which is more demanding and I found myself leading the medical association from one level to the other. My life is full of challenges and demands but I still make out time to play with the children and stay around the home when I am needed.

How did your father raise you?

I was raised to be well-focused all the time. He taught me that my focus should always be on God to achieve anything and as a child, he raised me to work hard and help the people around me. I also found myself doing some petty trading even while I was in school and using what we had to help others. That was the kind of upbringing I had.

What values did you imbibe from your father that now guide you as a father?

Well, the values my father left for me as a child is to always trust in God and not to trust anybody except God. He also taught me not to lead a life that is not consistent with the norm. He taught me to have respect for God and respect for human beings.

What have been your challenges as a father?

The only challenge that one has as a father, these days, is how to get your children well-educated and well-catered for in the midst of very little funds around.

What has been your happiest moment as a doctor?

My happiest moment as a doctor is any time I am in the operating theatre, operating on patients. That is the happiest moment of my life.

What has been your happiest moment as a father?

As a family man, the happiest moment is when I have time to spend with my family.

How do you spend time with your family?

Well, we play games together or watch family movies and we also pray together. Occasionally, we go out and experience the other side of life.

Is any of your children willing to follow in your career path?

Yes, one of my children is already in medical school. The girls are praying to be a doctor and a nurse. That is their dream.

What challenges did you face in rising to the top of your career?

Well, I was not born with a golden or silver spoon. I had challenges of getting funds to forward my education. Most of the time, I had to do petty trading to assist my parents and rise to where I am today and of course, the usual politics of the profession. The things that affect national politics affect our professional politics as well. All those factors are challenges I faced to rise to the position I found myself today.

What were the things that prepared you for fatherhood?

Maturity, the desire to be a good father, and my upbringing in a good family set up. Those were the things that prepared me to be a good father.

What was your most memorable moment in medical school?

The memorable moment was a sad one. When we were preparing for the third MB exam, things became very tough. The issue of leaving school or continuing came up because of funding but I thank God because He provided for me in a miraculous way.

What do your children tease you about?

They tease me about the fact that I do not like eating foreign and polished foods. I like my food to be natural and traditional. Whenever they are taking noodles, I do not have any interest and they tell me that I am missing a lot.

How do you punish your children when they misbehave?

I do not joke with punishment with them. When they misbehave, they know that I will apply the rule. I hate beating them but I can temporarily withdraw some pleasures from them. For instance, if I want to punish them, I can prevent them from watching their favourite movie and once I do that, they know that they have done something wrong and they will apologise.

How do you reward their good deeds?

When they have done something good, I mostly give them surprises. I will give them something that they never thought they could get around that point in time and they always appreciate them.

How do you relax?

I like watching soccer and sometimes, I play golf and I listen to good music, particularly gospel music and traditional music of any origin. I love traditional music a lot.

What is your favourite soccer team?

I do not want to be fanatical. I don’t have any favourite team and my family knows that very well even when they argue about their teams.

Who are your favourite musicians?

I like Bob Marley. He was philosophical. I love Fela for being real and King Sunny Ade. Obey has gone gospel; so, I listen to him as well. I also like Solomon Lange.

Can you share a funny or memorable experience of your fatherhood?

The day I had my first child is always memorable.

Do you think fathers deserve paternity leave?

Sure. I am a proponent of that. If mothers deserve maternity leave, then fathers should be given paternity leave because that stage of life is so choked up with changes in sleep pattern to that of the infant and the child also has to recognise your voice and you also need to share in the stress that the mother is going through by giving her comfort and support.

What advice would you give to children without fathers?

Well, apart from supporting them spiritually and financially, I normally give them the hope that all is not lost and they should see themselves as being fathered by God and not by human beings. Even those that still have their fathers alive are still taken care of by God.

What advice would you give to would-be fathers?

They should prepare themselves for some new challenges in life; the challenge of bringing up children like themselves and bringing up children that will prosper in life more than them. If they are not ready for that, they should not even think of being fathers.

What do your children think of your activism as a doctor heading doctors’ union?

They thank God that they have a father that is leading the multitude and they only tell me not to be too strict on them and to always do my best. They tell me that if I cannot add any value to them, I should not remove any value from the profession.

What relationship advice do you give to your children?

I tell them to be open and pray to God on their relationships, particularly with the opposite sex and they should look for people who will respect their values. I also advise them to look for people who are hard-working like their father. They should avoid dangerous and unfamiliar experiments of life while they are in school, particularly habits and drugs that they are not used to.

What problems do you think are traceable to bad parenting in our society?

Well, you know, children copy their parents. Whatever bad habits they find their parents imbibing, they will try and copy. So, drug abuse, alcoholism and bad manners can be traceable.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]