Dad wants corrupt Nigerian leaders jailed for life —Prof. Falola’s daughter
Toyin is a daughter of a renowned historian, Prof. Toyin Falola. She speaks with TOLUWANI ENIOLA about her father’s life and career

Tell us about yourself.

I am the youngest of Prof. Falola’s three children. I have an elder brother, Dolapo, and a sister, Bisola. I attended the University of Texas, Austin, where my father teaches. I remember helping him to carry his books to his office at UT-Austin when we first moved to Texas. Little did I know that in 10 years, I would attend the same university.

After majoring in Biology, I went to medical school at Washington University in St. Louis on an Olin full tuition scholarship and then completed my dermatology residency at Stanford Hospital and Clinics. I am currently the site lead in dermatology at the Burlingame site of Palo Alto Medical Foundation.

What fond memories can you recall growing up with your father?

Growing up, and to date, my dad has always been the life of the party. I remember all the different Nigerian functions and parties that my father and I attended. I would sneak puff puff with the other kids as my dad entertained a group of party goers with his dances and stories. I also fondly remember how he mentored many of his graduate students. Some of them stayed in our house. Others came over to join us for thanksgiving and Christmas meals, especially when they were unable to make it home for the holidays. Our family was always welcoming new faces, especially helping those who first moved to the US.

As a child, my father would travel to various universities and locations for lectures and conferences but he would always send a postcard to his kids, no matter where he went. We all kept the post cards; they also included notes of his advice over the years.

Why didn’t you study history having been introduced to such rich historical background as a child?

My father always told us to pursue our interests and follow our passion, but not if it will lead us to hunger. He was not initially persuaded to become a historian; so he takes this as a cautionary tale to examine what motivates a child and try to invest in that motivation.

How do you feel being the child of a popular historian?

Given that we share the same name, I sometimes get some perks because of his name. One hilarious example I remember was when I flew to St. Louis to be interviewed for the Olin scholarship at Washington University. The scholarship provided full tuition to attend medical school. Given the high cost of medical school in the US and also the prestige of both the school and the scholarship, I was quite nervous before the interview.

After a dinner event, all the applicants were mingling in a hotel lobby – the anxiety in the room was palpable. As I walked around, I stopped and overhead a girl said, “There is no way any of us here would get this scholarship.” I looked at all the applicants and discovered that one of them had written many history books. Another gasped and said, “That is crazy while being a premed student, how did they find the time to write books? You are right; we will never get this scholarship.” I laughed silently to myself as having the same name with my father perhaps gave me some competitive advantage, or at the least, boosted my spirit.

To this day, I still have patients who researched me before their appointment, and who will casually ask me questions about Africa and the Diaspora, thinking that I managed to be a dual scholar in both history and medicine.

How did he discipline you when you misbehaved?

While many children received all kinds of punishment, what we got the most as punishments were as lectures. Any time we did something wrong, my father would say, “come to my study.” Once he called us into his lobby like that, we knew we would not return for hours. I remember an experience when I was in high school. I made a ‘B’ in a test in one of my science courses.

After sitting me down and talking about life, what it takes to be successful and motivated, he said, “You made a ‘B’ in this course and isn’t this what you want to do in life?” Those words just stuck with me. I knew he was right. Why should I not do well in a subject that I want to spend the rest of my life pursuing? Till this day, I remember that question. It motivates me whenever I feel lazy or tired. He would not allow us to watch television during the week.

How did he find time to spend with his family despite his busy schedule?

Despite being busy with lecturing, conferences, writing, and editing, my father kept the same calendar schedule as other professors. He was at home more often during the summertime when we were also at home. During the summertime, he would often cook meals for us. His suya-making skills are unmatched, since all the children were home and my mother was working/going back to school. We would sometimes also accompany him to UT Austin and tour the college campus or sit in during classes. He always found time to take us to the library which we went to weekly — each of us children with giant books.

What role did he play in your career choice?

My parents were supportive of my decision to become a physician. My dad was the one who encouraged me to find and apply for scholarships, of which I received several offers that helped finance my undergraduate studies. He also encouraged me to find leadership opportunities and become involved in extracurricular activities to enrich my college experience.

They would check on me to know how I was doing during the difficult courses in my premedical studies and biology degree. Given that his office was on the campus – my friends and I would stop by in-between classes for snacks and impromptu advice.

My father arranged to sit on stage during my graduation from UT Austin (where he is a faculty member), and handed me my diploma which further solidified all the support he had given me throughout my premedical studies.

Were you pampered being from a privileged background?

My parents emphasised the importance of working and earning one’s money. Sometimes, my father would not give us money for toys or social events like movies, unless we earned it ourselves. At a young age during the summer, my friends and I would fashion ourselves as young entrepreneurs in order to get money. We would come up with new business ventures that would earn us money, which we usually spent on the ice cream truck stationed in the neighbourhood.

We would sell homemade newspapers or jewellery to get money to spend on popsicles and other frozen treats. My siblings and I all worked through high school and college to pay for rents, gas money, and other necessities. My parents definitely instilled in us the importance of working hard, saving money, and prioritising our finances.

If your father was not a lecturer, what profession would he have chosen?

I can’t imagine my father as anything but a historian. But I think if he wasn’t a historian, he would make a great leader of a social movement. He has a great ability to connect with people and create wide and diverse social networks, and also motivate people to act on humanitarian causes and ideals. He also has a remarkable intellect and a great memory. These are skills which endear him to people. I think he would have also still been a storyteller, a modern-day griot, perhaps a writer-poet-artist, and one that blends written and spoken word with paintings.

What are his favourite food and drink?

My father likes amala (yam flour), gbegiri (beans soup) and ewedu (Jew’s mallow). Many people might not know that my dad is a great cook. The pepper soup, beans, asaro (porridge) and other food he prepares taste so well. He likes to mix up his foods because he gets tired of eating the same things. I would say his favourite food, besides all Nigerian food and the growing movement of cooking with more local and indigenous foods, is a new taste or flavour combination.

What is his best music?

Growing up, my dad would always play songs of Fela, King Sunny Ade, Ebenezer Obey, Shina Peters, and other jùjú music stars in his days.

How does he exercise?

My dad is very much into health and fitness. He wakes up early in the morning to take long walks, and also bikes. He always pushes himself to find new walks or hikes with high elevations. He has also completed a half marathon. If you see his fit-bit reports, you would be greatly impressed by his daily activity logs.

Does your father’s name open doors for you?

Yes. Like I said, my father and I share the same name. When I was a student at the University of Texas, at Austin, our email addresses were very similar. I remember accidentally getting emails from students wanting to meet with him, and those trying to lobby for a better seat when guest lecturers or speakers would come to the campus. I also used to get automatic upgrades on flights, since he travels often. They thought he was me – that was quite the perk! More recently, I had a patient who was reading one of his books for her high school class in San Francisco and she requested specifically to see me as a physician so she could ask me questions about my father. Sometimes, I even get new patients because of him.

What are the things people don’t know about your father?

I am not sure there is anything really they don’t know. The generous, boisterous, kind, and scholarly man they see is the same man he is at home.

What are the important things your father told you about life?

When I was much younger, I asked my father if he ever got bored of his job. He plainly and quickly answered ‘no’. And then, he said something that I have not forgotten. “You will never get bored and it will never feel like a job if it is something that you like. I will never retire. Never!” he stated. I think that mentality of combining your passions with your strength is the reason why his children are successful in their professions.

What are his secrets of keeping healthy?

He exercises daily. He takes time to ask people about their exercise regimes and routines; so he gets new ideas. He would also tell you that good health is partly exercise and what one eats.

Does he have a nickname?

His nickname is simply TF.

Your father is a writer/scholar. Did you ever watch him teach?

Yes, when we were younger, we would attend some of his lectures during the summer, and other events he attended to speak. We also got to watch him teach every day. We watched him collect awards for distinguished teaching! He is a celebrated teacher at the University of Texas at Austin where he has won most of the major teaching awards.

How did he react when angry?

He withdraws to himself. Sometimes, he would go and drink beer. By the time he wakes up, he would have forgotten about the issue and move on.

Have you read any of his insightful books?

Yes, I have read his memoirs ‘A Mouth Sweeter Than Salt’ and ‘Counting the Tiger’s Teeth.’ Both are timeless literatures that explain the Yoruba world to the Yoruba and the world beyond them.

How did he relax?

He is a great host. He loves to cook for people and they regale one another with stories. He does not like to go on vacation to places he does not know people.

What language did he prefer his children to communicate in?

Yoruba and English.

Can you share any of your dad’s most challenging periods while climbing the ladder of his career?

I was too young to know that. I was four years old when he became a full professor. He works round the clock, even now.

Who are the people your father considers his role models?

I don’t really know but he loves Mandela, Fela and great theoretical scholars such as Marx, Gramsci, Ibn Khaldun and Kwame Nkrumah.

Does he guide you in your choice of friends?

No, but he warned us to avoid those who use drugs.

Who are your father’s best friends?

It depends on the country. He has many friends. In the US, you will see him hanging out with engineers such as Gozie Ifesinachukwu, Diran Obadina, Cherno Njie, and a businessman, Femi Owoseni.

In Nigeria, he talks a lot about his professor friends — Ayo Olukotun, Ademola Dasylva, Dele Ashiru, Labi Adeyemi, Samson Ijaola, and Jide Owoeye. In Ghana, his friends include Prof. A. B. Assensoh. In South Africa, it is Prof. Sam Oloruntoba.

What are his likes and dislikes?

He loves music, especially apala, and he is an excessive reader. He cannot handle betrayal very well.

What does he say about Nigeria’s future and leadership?

He wants the younger generation to take over. He wants corrupt leaders to be sentenced to life in prison. He believes that Nigeria will become a stronger country once there is accountability, electricity, good roads and honest entrepreneurs.

What were your father’s best moments?

His best moment, in recent time, was when he saw his first grandson, Olamide.

Share other funny experience of fatherhood you had with your father.

He likes to take very long walks on the streets, in parks, and on hiking trails. Then he would talk about values, generate disagreements and arguments about all sorts of issues. It is fun, and as we grow older, we see the world differently from him.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]