Nigerian youths desire academic certificates without hard work — Osuoha
Eighty-one-year-old Dr. Eugene Osuoha is from the Orodo Mbaitoli Local Government Area of Imo State. He shared his life experience with GIBSON ACHONU

When were you born?

I was born in 1937 and it is what I use officially. The precise date is unknown to me, owing to loss of record. By estimation, I am 81 years old. By calculation, I started elementary school in January 1946. From 1946 to 2018 is 72 years. I began elementary school at about nine or 12 years old. Elementary school for children in my village at the time minimally started at age eight, nine and 12 years as of then. If you add it to the already existing years, I am over 80.

Tell us about your educational background.

I started elementary school at St. Lazarus Primary School, Orodo, Imo State, and passed Standard Six examination in 1953. In 1954, I became an apprentice trader in Makurdi, the Benue State capital. This I did for seven months and came back to take entrance examination into secondary school in July 1954. Between July 1954 and December of the same year, I was a teacher at Ubaha Orodo, where I taught arithmetic. In 1955, I got enrolled into the Trinity High School, Oguta, for secondary education and passed out in 1959. In 1960, I joined the Internal Revenue Division of the Ministry of Finance at Enugu.

I was later transferred to Aba, where I served as an appeal officer under an Appeal Commission Panel for tax offenders. I was there until Nigeria’s Independence on October 1, 1960. On October 4, 1960, I was lucky to receive a telegram to immediately proceed to Emergency School, Lagos, for GCE A-level. This was accomplished by the end of December 1962. Then in March 1963, I worked briefly with the Nigerian Airways as a traffic officer in training at Ikeja airport. Interestingly, I was promoted twice within one year. This was because of my performance in the GCE A-level exams. The second promotion came in August 1963 and third was in September/October 1963. During that period, I was tipped to go for an air traffic course in London. That meant that after the 11 months’ training course, I would come back to be upgraded to senior service.

During that period, there was an offer of a USSR scholarship to the Federal Government of Nigeria for qualified candidates to study allied or professional sciences in Russia. It was the first of its kind from the then Soviet Union to Nigeria. I availed myself of the opportunity. After the interview, I was chosen to study chemical fertilisers. Within two weeks, we were all ready to go. It was the first time in the history of foreign relations that the Russian Government gave an Illusion Aircraft to carry all the students, which were 45, from Nigeria to Russia. The aircraft arrived before we were even ready and the pilot waited. Like I earlier said, the scholarship was granted to 45 Nigerians; 15 from the North, 15 from the West and 15 from the East. However, we were 23 out of the 45 that eventually left for Russia on October 23, 1963.

How did the study go in Russia?

It went well. After the first language course, which we completed at Moscow State University, we were posted to different universities for our primary assignments. Chemical fertilisers were not well understood by some of us who accepted that area of specialisation. However, by our own explanation and appeal to Nigeria’s Federal Government through the embassy, we were allowed to change courses.

So, I chose to study medicine. I was posted to Moscow State Medical Institute. I spent extra six years to qualify as a medical doctor on June 20, 1970.

What can you recall about your childhood?

I grew up in a very rural and serene atmosphere. It was a polygamous family. Within the rural setting, we went for hunting. We also engaged in moonlight plays, fetched water from far streams and did all sorts of domestic chores.

Why did you choose to study medicine?

I chose medicine earlier from my secondary school days. The story goes like this: On one Sunday, which was our visiting day, we were in the classroom doing our prep while parents/guardians came to visit their children/wards. From the window, I saw many of them from Onitsha, Port Harcourt, Aba, Owerri with flashy cars carrying all sorts of delicious food to their children/wards.

A few of us had nobody to visit us. The impression I had was that lawyers and doctors were those who came with such cars and quality food. Before that day, I had already written, “I must be a doctor” in one St. Luke’s gospel I was reading.

This made me concentrate on biology and all science subjects to achieve my dream. Again, during the Empire Day celebration at Owerri, we were passing through the General Hospital and I saw a white doctor with a stethoscope on his neck. I was very fascinated and I told myself that one day, I must hang a stethoscope around my neck too. As a young boy, I had interest in herbs. I used to treat people who were sick with drugs and herbs. What I administered to every sick person worked.

What was the most remarkable experience you had in medical school?

The most remarkable experience I had in the medical school was that I finally qualified as a doctor. This is because the language then was very difficult. We had to first learn the Russian language which was the medium of instruction. However, the teachers were a wonderful set of people. They were patient with us, accommodating and helpful. They taught us well to pass our exams.

How did you meet your wife?

My lovely wife is from a neighbouring town. We knew ourselves briefly before I left for overseas. However, the cordial relationship she had with my family during and after the war as a nurse spurred my father to woo her to become my wife. I totally accepted it. She later joined me in England after the war and in 1972, we got married.

How many children do you have?

I have three children. My first child is now a man and a mathematical analyst, while the second is a female pharmacist, married and living in the United States of America with her husband. The third is also a medical doctor, living and practising in California, US.

How do you take care of yourself now?

Presently, I am retired but not tired. My children are my insurance and they sustain me and my wife.

What was the most challenging period of your life?

The most challenging period of my life was during the Nigerian/Biafran civil war. It was challenging because we were cut off from our own parents and the story was that everybody was dead in the Biafran area. And being in the Soviet Union then, we hardly heard correct information about what was happening at home. During the same period also, our bursaries from the Federal Government were cut off.

Being young men, we were forced to sign papers at the embassy or forfeit whatever remuneration we were getting as bursaries. It is pertinent to say that it was hard for us to convince the Russian Government to allow us to finish our courses.

Another trying period for me was in 1983 when I got sick and became paralysed. I was almost one year out of a job but miraculously came back to life in 1984. However, in 2002, I had a terrible accident, where my two hands and legs broke. I cannot also fail to mention the death of my father which happened shortly towards the end of the civil war, precisely on December 29, 1969. I felt I should have met him on coming back because people in the locality made mockery that I was lost in the Soviet Union. I was not around during our independence in 1960. I was disappointed that immediately after, we entered into a military rule that destroyed democracy in Nigeria.

What was your most remarkable moment?

The most remarkable moment of my life was the death of my father, mother and elder brother. Though I saw my mother and elder brother as I arrived in Nigeria from Russia, the two died shortly after.

How do you feel about the state of the country?

I feel very bad. This is because things have not gone well. There is no unity in Nigeria. There was something like one Nigeria, accepted and upheld by people but nowadays, people are no longer happy. There is no oneness, no unity. There is raging unemployment of both skilled and unskilled workers and there is disenchantment across the country. What makes it worse is that the government is not living up to expectations. They cannot be trusted. There is a high level of corruption, robbery, kidnapping, shooting, greed, avarice, bitterness and rancour. It is important to state that nobody is sure of himself or herself in Nigeria today.

What is your advice to Nigerian youths?

They should look up to God, the creator. I say this because God is the ultimate. Most Nigerian youths have been carried away by avarice, greed, envy and the avid love for money and high-profile lifestyle. The youth seek quick money without commensurate enterprise. The present-day Nigerian youth don’t want to work or learn a trade but they know names of exotic cars and their capacities. Also, they want to acquire academic certificates without working hard for them. They always believe that fakery is the surest way out. They should look at their parents and emulate the way they worked. They also do not have an iota of respect for their parents and elders.

What are your regrets in life?

I have no regret whatsoever. I started humbly and reached the peak of my profession. God has blessed me with humility, success and long life. That I am able to live this long is by the mercy of God. Why must I have regrets? Instead of regrets, I should be thanking God for what He has done for me

How many more years do you still want to live?

I would continue to thank God Almighty for any hour I live. This is because God is the sole determinant.

Do you believe in heaven and hell?

I am a Catholic and an ardent believer in Catholicism. However, by the teaching of the church, I have been made to believe that there are heaven and hell.

What is the secret of your long life?

The secret of my long life is because I tenaciously believe in God. I say at this point that no matter what, God is the ultimate for all human beings. I serve him in truth and in spirit. I strictly practise agape love, charity, simplicity, straightforwardness, humility, obedience and total trust in God. I doggedly believe in the philosophy of living and let live.

Why didn’t you join politics?

I joined politics. I joined when my people complained that there was no government presence in our community. I was encouraged by my people to contest. In 1995, I contested chairmanship seat under the zero party system in the Mbaitoli Local Government Area.

What was the outcome of the election?

I learnt lessons I have never learnt in life during the political process. I say this because as a specialist doctor working in a hospital, I did not know much about the intricacies of politics. Hence, I ended up in litigation and appeals to the extent that it started from Magistrate Court, High Court, Appeal Court and to the Supreme Court. The only thing that saved us was the military coup hence we stopped abruptly. In 2002, I was involved in another party politics. I am one of the founding fathers of All Progressives Grand Alliance in Imo State. I returned to medical practice and since then, I have been relaxing.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]