I don’t sleep up to an hour at night –Mother of triplets
A businesswoman, Mrs. Abiola Afolabi, was recently delivered of triplets via In Vitro Fertilisation in Owerri, the Imo State capital. She shares her labour experience with GIBSON ACHONU

When did you discover that you were pregnant with triplets?

I discovered that in June 2017.

What was your first thought when you found out you were pregnant?

I was very happy. I could not explain the joy, having waited for six years to have a baby. I had two children and the waiting paid off. After my wedding, I did not conceive. I conceived after the fifth year and gave birth to a baby girl. I conceived again after another three years and the baby is a girl. I did not conceive again till six years after. I am happy they are triplets.

Did you ever wish to have triplets?

No. But I wanted God to give me twins after waiting for another six years.

Why did you opt for In Vitro Fertilisation?

I had a minor surgery and after some time, I discovered that I have a blocked fallopian tube. The medical option was to adopt IVF to save the situation. That was why my husband and I opted for IVF.

What were the challenges of giving birth babies via IVF?

It was very challenging. This was because I had to strictly go through series of medical processes and procedures. I had to undergo series of IVF medical tests and examinations to ensure that the process would be successful in the end. Again, my body had to adjust to the circumstances because it went through what I wasn’t used to. For instance, there were a series of injections and drugs, among others, which I took during the process. I was advised to go through the process by a senior matron who works at the Federal Medical Centre, Owerri.

Did you enjoy your pregnancy and what was the most difficult part of carrying the babies?

Yes, I enjoyed carrying the pregnancy. Like I said, I was already looking for babies. Why should I not be happy when another conception came? However, having multiple births was very challenging. The first trimester was very challenging and a trying period for me. However, during the second trimester, I was able to manage myself well. The third was another hectic period for me. I say this because I could not sleep and lying down was also tough.

Let me add that a time, my legs could not carry me. It was obviously because of the weight of the pregnancy.

Were you scared at any point?

Yes, I was. My fear was how to carry through and survive with them, while in the womb. This was the primary issue and every other thing was very secondary.

Did you think your husband would run away when he heard the news?

No. I knew that by the grace of God Almighty, he would be there and he is still there for me, with all degree of joy and happiness.

When and where were your triplets born?

I was delivered of them three weeks ago in Owerri, the Imo State capital.

Describe your experience shortly before giving birth.

There was no labour. When it was time to give birth, I was taken to the theatre, a caesarean operation was conducted and the triplets were brought out. The children and I are healthy and alive. I give God Almighty all the glory.

How did you choose your babies’ names?

We already named the first two baby girls, Promise and Praise. In this present situation, we wanted the letter “P” to continue to be the first alphabet of the names of the triplets. We named them Peter, Paul and Prisca. It is pertinent to also note that the names were given by divine inspiration.

What food were you eating while pregnant?

I was eating whatever food my body could tolerate. I also ensured that whatever I took was nutritional.

Did your babies arrive at the exact date predicted by your doctor?

Yes, they were closed to the time. This is because they were not in the incubator.

What funny experience can you recall while you were pregnant?

A funny experience I can say while carrying the babies was their kicks in the womb. I was always saying, “When will I drop this load?” and “When will this cup pass over me.”

How did you cope with mood swings during pregnancy?

It was not easy. However, the grace of God Almighty was upon me.

What has been most challenging to you since you became a new mother again?

My most challenging issue is sleepless nights. I am always having hangover these days. It is very tiring.

How would you compare your life before motherhood and life as a new mother?

When I was single, I was moving from one place to the other without minding anything. But now that I am a mother, I am bothered about many things. When I am not thinking about my marriage, I am considering the welfare of my children and business. I am also bothered about how to become a successful married woman. Juggling these duties is tiring. I am not a career woman. I have my own business.

What part of your body changed during pregnancy that you didn’t like?

The part of my body that changed while I was pregnant was my two legs. My two legs got swollen. It is just recently that the swelling started subsiding. Also, I am not doing exclusive breastfeeding. I am supporting breastfeeding with a formula.

What advice did your mother or relatives give you about motherhood that has helped you to date?

It is the advice I got from my mother. She told me, “While entering into marriage to become a mother, Abiola, you have to be patient. You must cultivate it as a virtue.” I must sincerely say that that has tremendously helped me in my sojourn in the Afolabi family.

What experience would you want to create for your children?

The only experience I would want to create for my children is to doggedly believe in the supremacy of God above all things.

Does how to cater to the children bother you?

It does not bother me. I say this because silver and gold belong to God Almighty. Again, because I asked for them (children) from Him and He gave me, I believe that He will surely give me the resources to take care of them.

How is your husband coping with the birth of the babies?

As a father, he is helping me. He joins me in taking care of the babies. He also goes to work and God has been blessing him.

How many hours of sleep do you get at night these days?

I don’t even sleep up to one hour in the night. That one hour is just like one minute to me. But one thing is that one cannot cheat nature.

What would you have loved to do differently while pregnant?

Unfortunately, I cannot carry any pregnancy again. I maintain this based on the recent blessing of God in that regard. However, my prayer is that as many are looking up to God for the fruit of the womb, God in His infinite mercies, will visit and make them mothers in their lifetimes in Jesus’ name. Amen.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]