Dad’s acrobatic dance steps can give one goosebumps – Bright chimezie’s son
Kelvin is one of the children of popular Nigerian singer, Bright Chimezie. He talks about the kind of life his father leads off the stage with GBENGA ADENIJI

Tell us about yourself.

I am also known as Da Mic Oracle. I am a native of Umuogba Ekeoba in Umuahia, Abia State. I am one of the twin children of Bright Chimezie and a Mass Communication graduate of the Abia State University.

Are you also into music like your father?

I am a voice artist and currently training as a music engineer at the Ziggima recording studio.

Tell us about your other siblings.

Well, my siblings are all great individuals. My twin brother, Melvin, is a saxophonist. He plays proficiently for the Ziggima band. My immediate younger brother, Chukwudi, is a 400-level law student at the Abia State University. He is a potential lawyer for the family. He is a rhythm guitarist in the Ziggima band.

Also, my youngest brother, Michael, is a student at the Abia State University. He is a good singer and dancer and has opened many shows for my father. He is keen on taking Ziggima to another level. He is doing well for himself. My kid sister is in secondary school. She hopes to study Medicine.

What can you recall about your childhood memories with your father?

Those days as a kid, my father would always take my twin brother and me to recreational centres such as amusement park. We were always a tourist attraction for people. They took delight in watching and pouring encomiums on us because we are twins.

How does he discipline his children who misbehave?

My father is not keen on using the cane to flog any of us who misbehaves. He would rather talk to us than use the cane. My father’s words are very potent and carry fire. I think that is why the world listens to him when he sings. My father, with his grimacing countenance, only talks one out of one’s stupidity and stubbornness.

Which of his songs do you like most and why?

I love every of my father’s songs because they carry powerful messages even for unborn generations. But I would say I love African Style. It is a popular song. You remember the song where he lamented his ordeal in the hands of the white man. When he travelled to ‘oyinbo man’s country’ with his eba and ogbono soup and was accused of committing suicide. It’s quite hilarious I must say. I love the song because it tries to encourage Africans to be proud of themselves. It preaches that we should never be afraid of expressing ourselves as true Africans.

Did your father make career choices for any of his kids?

No. My father believes that each individual has freewill and must be allowed to exercise it. He only advises on what career choice and endorses it. He encourages us to pursue our passions.

What are the values you have learnt from him?

One major value I have learnt from my father is discipline. My father frowns on indiscipline and reprimands any of his children who doesn’t exhibit discipline in their dealings. Of course, it is discipline that brought my father thus far in his musical career and has kept him going all the years.

What would you say are your father’s contributions to the nation’s music industry?

My father’s contributions to the nation’s music industry are quite enormous. My father has used his music positively as a tool for societal development, capacity building and grass-root sensitisation.

How do you feel listening to his songs?

I feel elated and proud because my father’s songs are powerful and evergreen.

How would you describe his stage performance if you have watched him on stage?

I have always watched my father perform since I was a kid. His stage presence is top-notch; his acrobatic dance steps can give one goosebumps. I always feel elated watching him perform on stage.

How does he relax?

My father relaxes by playing the guitar, reading and spending time with his family when he has no shows. He also watches news, documentaries and wild life channels.

What songs does he listen to?

He listens to songs that are devoid of vulgarity.

What is his favourite food?

He eats lots of fruits and well prepared African dishes.

Does he sing for his family at home?

Yes, of course. Charity they say begins at home. A person’s first responsibility is to the needs of his family and friends. He does entertain his family in a tremendous way to the delight of all of us.

How would you say his name has opened doors for you?

My father’s name has always illuminated my path and opened doors for me. For instance, when people know that I am the son of a popular music star, Bright Chimezie, they accord me great respect. If I am in a bank, cashiers instantly attend to me when making transactions. The same thing happens when I am on other official assignments. But I never relent in striving hard to create my own success story. I don’t let the euphoria of my father’s achievement becloud my sense of hard work and determination.

Who are your father’s friends?

My father has no particular class of friends. He appreciates everyone as they naturally are.

How does he like to dress?

My father has a penchant for African dresses and costumes.

How does he react when angry?

He is slow to anger and his anger doesn’t last long. But during that period of time, the offending person would be uncomfortable. Most times, his anger serves as a corrective measure to bring one to the right path.

What are his regrets?

To the best of my knowledge, my father has no regrets whatsoever.

What are his concerns about the nation’s music industry?

He is deeply impressed with the progress in the music industry. But he is overwhelmingly disturbed by the lack of creativity and vulgarity in the musical lyrics of the present-day artistes.

Did your father tell you how he earned the nickname Okoro Junior?

Well, it has to do with his afrocentric ideas and ways of life. From his younger days, he believed in giving Africa a positive image starting from Igboland where he is from. He told me of a story which happened in the early late 70s while he was playing for a band in Lagos. He said anytime he started singing and dancing, people would start looking at him and shouting, “That Okoro boy.” He said that the expression, ‘That Okoro boy’ was initially meant to be a derogatory remark but that he took it upon himself to make the best out of it. So, he started answering to the name anytime he was called. My father added that in those days, there used to be many disco parties. He noted that hardly would one hear African music played in such disco parties. He said most young men and women then preferred listening to foreign music of Toney Wilson, Temptation, Boney M and Hot Chocolate among many others. My father also said radio stations enjoyed playing the music of the foreign groups. My father told me of an incident when he attended a disco party and requested African music. He said the disc jockey (DJ) looked at him from head to toe and said, “Bright, you are suffering from African mentality.”

For the fact that African music is played, loved and appreciated by Nigerians and Africans in general, credit should be given to music legends like my father who fought to set the pace for the opening of Nigerian and African music market. Way back, he released an album, Respect Africa. Like I said earlier, it is my father’s afrocentric ideas that made people call him Okoro Junior.

Is Bright Chimezie the musician different from Bright Chimezie the father at home?

On stage, my father is practically as vibrant and energetic as a lion. He equally mesmerises his audience with his philosophy and acrobatic dance steps. At home, he is calm, calculated, cheerful and thorough in his dealings with people.

What has he been doing as he no longer releases songs?

My father still releases songs. In fact, his latest album, Truth and Justice, is due for release anytime from now. He runs a 16-man band that is always engaged almost every weekend in and out of Igboland. Corporate bodies also engage him for shows.

How does he celebrate his birthday on October 1 as Nigeria’s birthday mate?

There is no special way he celebrates his birthday. He enjoys celebrating most times by staying in his room meditating till noon. When he finishes doing that, he meets with his family and we all wish him happy birthday. There are times we organise birthday party in his honour exclusively for family members, close friends and relatives.

How do you feel being his son?

I feel elated being his son. At least, he is a musician that has used his God-given talent to share joy and happiness and of course, to illuminate the world.

More so, since I was born and now that I am getting old, my father has lived a scandal-free life. These and other reasons are why I feel happy to be his son.

What relationship advice did he give his children?

Honestly speaking, my father has not sat me down to admonish me about marriage. But he taught me to respect women and treat them nicely. He has also advised me to be truthful and faithful in my dealings with the opposite sex.

How close are you to your father?

I am close to my father and we have a cordial relationship. I stay close to him to tap some ancient wisdom for my personal growth and development.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]