I wish I could go out with my husband on Friday night while pregnant — Oyebade-Hamzat
An entrepreneur, Mrs. Opeyemi Oyebade-Hamzat, talks about her joys of motherhood with GBENGA ADENIJI

When did you give birth?

I gave birth on Saturday, October 14, 2017 at about 4am.

What is the baby’s name and gender?

We named her Erioluwa and Elizabeth.

Was it a natural or assisted birth?

It was a natural birth. I always wanted a natural birth.

How did you handle each trimester?

Hmmm! My first and second trimesters are usually nauseating, with loss of appetite. I missed meals most of the times to avoid throwing up. The third trimester was fun and it was the time I really enjoyed being pregnant. I am usually free like a bird during the third trimester. That is when I like to eat and move around with no worries. My new baby is my second child. The first child is a girl.

What has changed about you since you gave birth?

My stature changed. There was weight loss at first; then, increase in size.

How is your older baby reacting to the arrival of a new one?

Lol! At first, she was stunned at the shift of attention and then, a bit of jealousy set in. Later, she accepted the arrival of the new baby. Now, she shows love and care. She even calls me when the baby is crying to breastfeed her.

Did you experience mood swings prior to delivery?

Not at all! I didn’t experience any mood swing.

What things were you told before pregnancy and delivery which turned out false?

Yes, I was told that I was going to have a baby boy.

What fears did you nurse about labour?

The pains and how long it would take during the second labour.

Do you intend to practise exclusive breastfeeding?

Yes; I intend to practise exclusive breastfeeding for six months. I am about four months gone already.

What was your labour experience?

I had a longer time of labour compared to my first delivery. It lasted for about three hours accompanied by stools.

Are there some habits you have noticed in your baby?

Yes; she sucks her left thumb.

What has motherhood taught you?

Motherhood has taught me a lot. It has taught me to be more immensely responsible, pro-active and caring.

How has your husband been assisting in taking care of the baby and handling house chores?

He has really been helpful in cuddling the baby to sleep, changing her diapers when wet and assisting greatly in cleaning the house.

Who gets more attention now – your baby or husband?

My attention is shared equally between the two of them.

How many children do you hope to have?

I hope to have at least three children.

What did you do more during pregnancy?

While I was pregnant, I engaged myself more in walking, cooking and washing of clothes.

Did you do any scan to know the gender of the baby prior to delivery?

Yes, I did three scans to know the gender of the baby prior to delivery.

What food did you crave most while pregnant?

I craved pepper soup with cat fish and pounded yam with vegetable soup.

Did you hate anything about your looks while you were pregnant?

No, I didn’t hate my looks when I was pregnant.

What fond memory can you recall the day you gave birth?

It was at 3.30pm on Friday, October 13. I visited my brother in-law’s wife. We were together until 9pm after taking dinner of rice with fish stew. That was when I felt the first slight painless contraction. It all started like a joke and I told my husband about it. He only laughed it off. Then, it occurred 30 minutes later.

The 30-minute interval contraction later reduced to 15 minutes and continued for about 45 minutes. It was at that point that my husband took it seriously and went home to get my already packed baby items.

By the time he came back, I already had my leak and it dawned on me that it was time to have my second baby. We got to the hospital at 11pm. I was delivered of the baby at 1.30am, having gone through different intervals of contractions. The theatre session was quick without any hitch. I gave birth six minutes after entry into the theatre. The delivery came with weakness, lightness and disappearance of pains associated with pregnancy.

I gave birth to a baby girl as my husband wanted. My husband came into the theatre to see his baby girl. When he came out, he came straight to me and said, “Thank you” to me with a broad smile.

Did your mother prepare you for labour?

Yes, she did prepare me for labour. First, she always advised me to pray about the day I would put to bed.

Also, anytime I visited her, she made lots of vegetables for me and advised that I take vegetables and fruits regularly. She also told me not to over eat carbohydrate so as not to make the foetus grow excessively on the inside. She further told me to embark on mild exercises. This also helped me during labour as it strengthened my tummy muscles, eased back pains, and ultimately, allowed the baby to get into good position. Besides, she became angry with me for moving around during the day in the sun without safety pins on my dress. She told me it is a Yoruba tradition. I disagreed with the notion though.

Would you wish you did some things differently while pregnant?

Yes. I wish I could sleep in different positions but the baby wouldn’t allow me. Also, I desired to go out with my husband more on Friday night but my parents and in-laws seriously kicked against that. They refered to our Yoruba tradition which they said forbids pregnant women going out at night.

What has changed about your sleeping pattern?

I have been able to sleep in all positions freely but now have to wake up at regular intervals to breastfeed and keep close check on the baby to ensure she does not cover her nostrils with clothes. I also have to wake up to eat at times to ensure there is enough breast milk for the baby when she demands it.

Who did you consult before delivery anytime you needed to clarify issues relating to pregnancy?

I am a user of Google. I used the search engine more than I visited the hospital. I used it to have an idea of the situation of my body and to know the best suited exercise for each trimester. I also went for ante-natal. I did scans and got pictures of the foetus to know the position and growth of the foetus. I also consulted my mother when I felt I needed to clarity issues relating to the pregnancy.

When I went into labour, my husband and I didn’t tell our parents until delivery. We planned to make it a surprise. My mother even sent a text message to my WhatsApp at 12.30am and my husband responded that I was asleep while I was in labour room. We called her 20 minutes later that I had put to bed and she screamed.

What is your advice to pregnant women about labour?

My advice to women about labour is to avoid nursing any fears before or after delivery.

They should also have endurance and be positive minded. It is essentially important as they undergo the inevitable labour pains.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]