How long should pupils stay in school?
DOLAPO AKITOYE writes about the psychological effects of studying for long hours on pupils

A former South African President, Nelson Mandela, once said, “Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.”

This statement clearly underscores the value of quality education. Many parents understand the importance of education and it is for this reason that when a child is born, one of the things that parents starts to prepare the child for is education.

In Nigeria, there are many children that start pre-school at the age of two and those younger than two also attend as well. There are also crèche and kindergarten. For a lot of nursery and primary schools, their hours run between 8am and 2pm.

But despite the closing time of 2pm, some schools still have different coaching schedules to keep the pupils in school.

Though authorities of the schools may say the extra-coaching is not compulsory, they tend to let parents know that it is an avenue to shed more light on what pupils might have earlier been taught in class.

While some parents take away their children immediately after the formal school hours, other pupils start another session in school. It is after the end of the extra-coaching or tutorial that parents of those ones come to take them home. This schedule runs from Monday to Friday.

A developmental psychologist at the University of Ibadan, Oyo State, Dr. Gloria, Adejuwon, said the development could be caused by many factors on the part of the schools and parents. “It depends on many factors. It depends on the type of school, home and jobs the parents of the pupils do among other factors,” she stated.

Adejuwon added that due to the high unemployment rate in the country, both parents of a pupils could be workers and would be left with no choice bu to keep the child longer in school under the guise of extra-coaching.

She noted that since both parents work, it would be hard for them to pick up their child early from school.

A working mother, Jane Onuoha, told SUNDAY PUNCH that it was a challenge for working parents to pick up their kids at the 2pm closing time.

This situation, she believed, could be responsible for why many schools initiated a learning extension after-school to indulge parents who might not be able to pick up their children early from school after initial the closing time of 2pm.

Another working mother, Kemi Ogunlana, said schools without any allowance for extension usually give about grace period of an hour or two for the pupils to be picked up under the watch of the security guards.

Ogunlana stated, “Other schools have created after-school programmes that consist of several activities the child engages in as they await their parents’ arrival.’’

The Head Teacher, Straitgate School, Ogun State, Mrs. Patience Ijeh, described after-school programmes as good.

She said, “Having had a long day in the regular setting, pupils take time out when they come in to the after-school. They take time to rest and relax before they go into the business of the day after school.

“They supervise their homework. They do not do it for them and their progress in school is monitored in the after-school.”

Ijeh added that the pre-school programmes were beneficial to the pupils because it provided a safe environment for them to learn a little more while their parents were still at work.

Nonetheless, Adejuwon believed that there were physical and psychological effects that staying too long in school could have on pupils.

According to her, in some schools, pupils are left to roam around and in such schools, they might be open to all kinds of abuse. She said when children were left on their own, they would try out all sorts of things.

A mother of one, Titi Awoleye, agreed with Adejuwon’s submission. She said, “If it is a girl, she might be abused and a boy might begin to get wrong counsel from friends. So, it is very risky for a pupil to be left in school for too long after school hours as the child will feel abandoned too.”

A mother of three, Chinwe Atuba, offered a fresh perspective to the issue when she said keeping pupils for too long in school on the pretext of getting extra lectures could make them tired.

She stated, “I believe that children may feel very tired after being in school for too long. They are still growing and their brain needs rest.”

According to Adejuwon, it is not advisable for children to be away from their parents for more than 12 hours in a day.

She added, “Parents should, at least, be involved in one of the trips to and from the school. It is either you allow those children to go to school near your workplace, so that you can leave home together in the morning and if your leaving time allows you, you can also pick them up.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]