I developed interest in my wife the day she inquired about our church’s choir — Saco, comedian
Comedian, Okudalaiye Ayodele, popularly known as Saco, and his wife, Aghogho, speak with TOFARATI IGE about their marriage

How did you meet your spouse?

Saco: We met in church as teenagers. There was a day I met her on the road and she asked me about what she had to do before she could join the choir. I explained things to her and she subsequently joined the choir. Over time, we became friends.

Was it love at first sight?

Saco: For me, I really cannot explain it because I sincerely liked her from the first day I set eyes on her. I just knew there was something different about her.

Aghogho: It wasn’t love at first sight for me. Gradually, I grew to like him.

What qualities did you see in your spouse that convinced you he/she was the one?

Aghogho: My husband is very selfless and caring. He is also a very sincere and honest person, and those are qualities that I don’t joke with. That is what sealed the deal for me.

Saco: She is very homely and respectful. She is also passionate about God and I hold that very important.

How did you propose to her?

Saco: We knew it was marriage we wanted before we even started dating and we had talked about it so well. We had also agreed on the time that we would get married; so, when it was time, I gave her a ring in my car and she wore it with love.

What was your reaction when he proposed?

Aghogho: There was no super reaction for me. Just like he said, we both knew the relationship was headed for marriage even before we started dating.

How long have you been married?

Aghogho: Our marriage would be five years old in March.

How would you describe your marriage experience so far?

Saco: It has really been an amazing experience for me. I’m still learning everyday to be a very good dad and a better husband.

Aghogho: Our marital experience has been beautiful, challenging and demanding but I thank God for everything. Overall, it has been a very wonderful experience.

Can you recall the first major disagreement you had as a married couple?

Saco: I sincerely cannot remember.

How often do you quarrel?

Saco: To be honest with you, we really do not quarrel. I express my mind fully whenever I am hurt and the matter ends there. I don’t keep things inside me. I would rather settle whatever issue right there and move on.

Aghogho: It may be hard to believe but we sincerely do not quarrel. We are very open with each other and we understand ourselves. However, he usually pretends to be in a quiet mood when I decide to air my mind when I’m hurt.

Who usually apologises first when you quarrel?

Saco: I usually take the bold step. As the head of the house, it behooves the man to ensure that peace reigns at all times.

How do you cope with your husband’s female admirers?

Aghogho: I know that there would always be admirers; so, I don’t let it bother me. We have sufficient trust in each other.

Why do you think celeb marriages don’t often last?

Aghogho: There are a lot of reasons for that. Sometimes, it could be as a result of the couple not understanding themselves. At other times, it could be because of lack of communication and dishonesty among other things. However, no two marriages are the same, and one must always apply wisdom in dealing with issues.

Do you keep a joint account, and would you advise couples to do same?

Saco: We do not keep a joint account but we have access to each other’s accounts.

What pet names do you have for each other?

Saco: I call her ‘Ayomi’, and she calls me ‘Sweet’.

Do you usually buy gifts for each other?

Saco: Yes, we do.

Do you regularly go on dates?

Saco: Yes, we do.

What other things do you do to keep the fire of your love burning?

Aghogho: We play together all the time. We also pray together, share thoughts and get really involved in each other’s lives.

How do you unwind as a couple?

Saco: We watch movies, joke and run around the house together.

Can you recall the most memorable time of your marriage?

Saco: That would be when we had our daughter. It was such a beautiful moment and it is something I would never forget.

Aghogho: For me, the most memorable moment was when we were on our honeymoon. We really enjoyed ourselves because there were no other responsibilities at that period.

What are some of the most important lessons you’ve learnt in marriage?

Saco: The power of agreement cannot be overstated. It is very essential for couples to be in agreement in everything that they do.

Aghogho: I have learnt that it is very important to be patient and to forgive. If you are patient, you would be able to think things through and you wouldn’t act in anger.

What are the key ingredients needed to sustain a marriage?

Saco: God is the most important factor. When there’s God, there will be love and every other beautiful thing.

Does your husband partake in household chores?

Aghogho: Yes, he does. I give that to him. I think it is a good thing when couples share household chores because there are times that one person could be tired and might need help.

What advice do you have for young couples?

Saco: Make sure you discuss everything between yourselves. Never allow side talks in your marriage because it always causes trouble. You should also be mindful of who you get advice from. Do not share the affairs of your home with friends or just anybody. Most importantly, get a marriage mentor. They would help to strengthen you and also give you advice from their own experience. Above all, put God first in everything you do.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]