My colleagues nicknamed me query master — Omoniyi, 83
Eighty-three-year-old Taoreed Omoniyi shares the story of his life with GBENGA ADENIJI

Tell us about yourself.

I was born on February 2, 1935 at Abule Arefun village in the Ayobo-Ipaja area of Lagos State. My father was a farmer while my mother was a trader. My father married four wives. My mother was my father’s youngest wife and she gave birth to only me.

How did you know your birth date since your parents were not educated?

Thank you for that question. It was written on a paper the day I was born and given to my parents. I think they asked someone to help them write it down. They later showed it to me when I became mature.

Did you go to school?

Yes, I did. I was in Standard Four at St. Andrew’s School, Ipaja, when my father passed on. I completed Standard Six in 1954. After that, I determined to further my studies but there was no wherewithal. Like the Bible says, ‘The soul is willing but the flesh is weak’. That indicates my eagerness to study more but there was no support.

What did you do since you couldn’t further your studies?

I got a teaching job at St. Peter’s School, Oke Aro, Ogun State. I taught primary three and four classes in the school. I was teaching them eight subjects daily. My salary was N120 annually. After some time, I was transferred to the African Church School, Iyesi-Ota, Ogun State. After teaching for three years in the school, I was moved to another African Church school in Ilaro, also in Ogun State.

I endured hardship a lot as a teacher. When we were not getting paid almost every December, I left the school without resigning or informing anybody. I decided to find another thing to do with my life.

Don’t you think you should have considered the pupils before you deserted the school?

l was not married at the time; so, it was easy for me to take any decision I desired. I was alone without any responsibility; my major focus was how to have headway. After thinking of what to do, I went to learn driving when I met a man, the late Lasisi Olapade. He was the person who taught me how to drive. He came to me where I sat, thinking one day and said he came from Ibadan, Oyo State, to Lagos and had no relative in Lagos. He begged me to accommodate him and after considering his plight, I obliged him. I was staying with my mother’s elder sister in the Agege area of Lagos State at the time. We started living there together and after sometime, somebody bought a bus for him to start transport business. That was how I abandoned teaching and became a transporter. I got a driving licence on February 17, 1960.

Were you working with him?

We used the bus together for some time and later, the teacher who taught me in Standard Six became the chairman of Ikeja Local Government Area. He employed me as a driver when I told him I could drive. He paid me seven pounds monthly. He was living in Ipaja and I would take him there after he left office and return to Agege where I lived.

It was later that I left him and got a taxi. It was easy using the taxi because I only had to read the displayed metre in it to know the fare of the passenger after the trip ended. One day, I got fed up because the taxi business wasn’t allowing me to do other things and I couldn’t also eat properly. I just quit it and stayed at home for some time.

Did you do any work after that?

Yes, I did. I am somebody that when I felt something was becoming too troubling for me, I let it go. I was at home one day when I saw a vacancy in a newspaper that the Nigerian Textile Mills in Ikeja, Lagos, needed a driver. I applied to the company. That day, a test was conducted for the applicants. I was employed after the test. I recall that my tally number was 5008. I worked there for some years before leaving to join a firm that handled the construction of the Ikorodu Road as a driver.

There were abundant job opportunities at the time. You could move from one company to the other at will then. I worked with the firm for some time before I left to join Julius Berger Nigeria at Ijora, Lagos. It was there that I enjoyed the money accruing from the civil service reforms introduced by the Jerome Udoji Commission. I spent four years there.

Were you married at the time?

I was not married but my mother was worried before her death that I should marry. She felt I was taking too long to settle down but to me, I was not bothered because my mind was still on school. My mother tried to get a lady for me.

The day I met her, I said to her, “I was told you wanted to marry me.’’ She asked me who said so and I told her my mother was the one who wanted us to marry. We later started living as husband and wife even though we were not formally married.

My friends were the ones who ensured that she came to my house one day and we made a report to the police that we didn’t kidnap her in case her parents said they didn’t release her to me.

That was how we started to live together. But one day, I drove someone to Ilesa in Osun State. The father of the lady l took to my house came during that time and didn’t see me at home. He was angry and said he would only allow his daughter marry someone ready to give her attention. I heard about what happened when I returned and tried to explain where I went to him. But he refused and took her daughter away.

Did you marry another woman?

Yes, I married another woman. Altogether I married three wives, I lost two and only one lives with me now.

Did you work in other places?

Yes, I joined the Lagos State ministry of works and was later redeployed to the state water corporation where I retired. If I worked in a place and the money was not what I could call a living wage, I quit to join another company. I also worked at the Swedish African Mill Company. Everywhere I worked, I did my work well. I never had an accident in all the years I worked.

I also knew how to answer queries. My colleagues used to call me ‘query master’ because if a query was issued, it wouldn’t take me more than a few minutes to answer it. One could be given a query to be answered within 24 hours. When it wasn’t that I killed, I would only read the issue raised and give a good response.

What is your favourite food?

I love taking wheat and yam flour.

Do you have any favourite drink?

I used to drink (alcohol) when I was a driver. That was many years ago, but my doctor has advised me not to drink it anymore. I stopped drinking alcohol many years back.

Do you do exercises?

I don’t do any exercise because of the state of my eyes. I didn’t have any eye problems when I was driving until years later. I woke up one day and felt I couldn’t see well. I was taken to the hospital and it was after the examination that they said I had cataract.

What difference have you noticed nowadays compared to your time?

The little we earned during my time was enough to take care of many things. Things are expensive nowadays. There are many youths without jobs. I have three graduates who are still seeking employment.

One of your children is an officer of the Nigerian Army. How do you feel when he told you he wanted to be a soldier?

I supported and prayed for him. I know the huge sacrifices Nigerian soldiers are making for the country. When he initially told me, I urged him to join the Nigerian Police Force but he told me that I should allow him choose the profession he wanted. I thank God for his life and the lives of my other children.

What is your advice to youths?

I want to advise them to be careful in their ways and diligently do their work. They should put their hopes in God either as a Muslim or Christian and they will achieve their goals.

Do you know you would live this long?

No, many of my mates are dead. It is to the glory of God that I am over 80 and in good health.

How long more do you want to live?

It is God that will determine that. I am ready anytime He says it is time. Death is a compulsory end for human beings.

Do you have any regrets?

I have no regrets. Why should I have regrets when God is with me? I thank Him for all what He did for me. I have children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren who are all doing well. God does what I want for me. I take my prayer beads, go to mosque every day to thank Him, pray to Him for His goodness over me and my family.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]