Men should be in labour room with their wives — Ogunye
Popular lawyer and human rights activist, Mr. Jiti Ogunye, shares his lessons of fatherhood with GBENGA ADENIJI

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood means a God-given opportunity and privilege to discharge enormous responsibilities. As a father, you have to provide for your family; of course in conjunction with your wife, the mother. Shelter, food, clothing, education, moral instruction, and general welfare have to be provided. Under, the law, including the criminal law, and lately the Child Rights Act, parents owe their children these duties and obligations. However, these duties and obligations are not owed the children only because they are commanded by law.

How would you describe the joy of being a father?

The logic and realities of life dictate that fathers in particular, and parents in general, take care of their children, who are young, needy and vulnerable. There are people better, smarter, more endowed, healthier, and richer than one who did not live up to the age that they could get married. Their lives were cut short by circumstances, mysteries and imponderables of life.

There are also well-to-do people who have difficulties in bringing forth children; they have done all they could but they are not lucky. There are those who chose not to have children; for example men of God, who have taken the oath of celibacy. So, if one lives to get married and father children, one must recognise that it is a privilege which calls for responsibility.

In time past, in traditional societies, striving to embrace modernity, education and development and all the blessings that come with them, you see illiterate parents, peasant farmers, people living in agrarian rural communities striving to educate their children, and hoping that through education, their children could get socio-economically empowered, and thus help lift them out of poverty. You see parents praying that God should preserve their lives to stick around long enough to reap the fruits of their labour on their children. Many of those parents do not live long enough to witness the phenomenal growth and recorded successes of their children. So, we must assume that parents take care of their children not because of expected returns on investment. It is not a mercantilist relationship. Discharge of parental responsibility is driven by ineffable love.

How have you been able to combine fatherhood with being a busy lawyer?

It is true that I am a very busy person. But a father, mother, or a parent should not be too busy to have time for the family or to have time to discharge the responsibilities of a father, mother or parent. I am in legal practice that is litigation oriented. Hence, I spend a lot of time writing and reading. I also attend court hearings.

Apart from the time I spend attending to clients and attending court hearings, I deliberately have to create time for withdrawal, so that I have time for reflection and introspection, time I don’t want to be disturbed by anybody, not even by my children and family. So, when you add all these times together, I have little or no time left. And I still have to rest. In spite of my busy schedules of work, I have combined my roles of a father, husband, and a professional who is servicing clients, very well, to the best of my abilities. Truth is, I would not have been able to cope but for the excellent work of my wife. She is a wonderful wife and the best mother in the world. Sometimes, she plays the role of an “auxiliary father” or ‘an alternate father’ just like an alternate director will do in company operations.

What prepared you for fatherhood?

My upbringing; the selfless discharge of the fatherly and motherly duties of my parents to me while I was growing up, my education and the fact that upon becoming a lawyer, I started working and I started earning a modest but decent living. My parents were the best parents in the world. Very modest in means but extremely generous to us, the children. The discharge of their own responsibility to us was an eternal lesson. They were a role model when it comes to playing parental roles. Being fathered by my father was like being mentored to be a good father in the future.

What was your greatest fear before becoming a father?

Honestly speaking I had no fear. The only fear I have is the fear every parent carries in his heart. As your children grow older and go into the world, you don’t want them to come to harm. You don’t want any of them to predecease you. You don’t want to use your hands to bury any of your children, as it is said in our Yoruba parlance. You also want them to do well.

When did you become a father?

I became a father in September 2002.

What was the experience holding your first child in your hand?

Indescribable! I was overjoyed. It was sobering. Suddenly, it dawned on me that just as my parents did for me, I had started a journey to take care of my own children.

How do you create time for your family?

We observe birthdays, other special days and holidays together, as much as possible.

How do you discipline your children?

I don’t forbid the whip or a gentle knock or rap on the head; but verbal instruction, admonition or rebuke is the norm. The whip or spank is an exception. It is very rare.

What hardest punishment have you given them?

Mild whipping or sentencing any of them to serve punishment in the ‘naughty corner’, by kneeling and raising their hands. But after a while, filial consideration would take over. Having admonished them with the left hand, you use the right hand of love to bring them close and tell them not to misbehave again.

What values did you learn from your father which you passed on to your children?

My father, Edward Thomas Olajide Ogunye, was a very good man. He was forthright, extremely hardworking, honest, humble, kind and generous. He was not envious of the achievements or successes of his friends and siblings. Above all, he detested evil and injustice. He was our first teacher. Very early in our lives, he would repeat to us all the good aphorisms that could help shape our characters for the best: evil communication corrupts good manners; labour conquers all difficulties; etc. Like him, I teach my children to be honest, kind, and good to others, obedient, godly, hardworking and focused. Our traditional and cultural manners regarding respect for the elderly are very important to me. Prostration for my male child is mandated; and courtesy by my female children by bent knees is done with ease.

What has been your greatest challenge as a father?

The birth of my second child was very challenging — child delivery complications which were overcame. Medical preparation based on my wife’s child delivery profile helped a great deal. But ultimately, God saw us through. My wife was very resilient, but I was traumatised. I did not want to go further after our second child. And that explains the age-gap between my second and last child. Thank God that we went further. My last child is an angel.

What lessons has fatherhood taught you?

Many things; but chiefly, the lessons of patience, endurance and gratitude. You have to be patient with children while raising them. The patience and endurance capacity of mothers in this regard are incredible. Children do not become adults overnight. You have to nurture them in love and with patience. They are infants, children, adolescents, teenagers before they become adults. And so, you must come to their levels as they pass through these stages. Also, one must be filled with gratitude for the children it has pleased God to grant one, even as one moulds them out of their deficiencies and try to curb their inadequacies. Never compare your children with other children. Don’t be unhappy that they are not as smart or as brilliant as the other children. Instead rejoice, because you have them and, with your help and work, they can be smarter. Don’t compare your children with one another; their aptitudes may differ; their intelligent quotients may differ. Just help them to be the best they can.

What female roles do you take up in the house?

None, I play male roles; I don’t play female roles. But if by female roles, you imply kitchen and culinary duties, I do my best, with the assistance of my domestic staff, when my wife is not available.

What would you love to do differently as a father?

Nothing so far! My role as a father is still a work-in-progress.

Were you in labour room with your wife during the birth of your children?

Yes, of course! I recommend it to every husband. If it were possible as a labour and employment policy, husbands should be given a paternity leave or child delivery leave by the government and every employer of labour to be at the side of their wives during delivery.

Why do you recommend leave for fathers when their wives give birth?

It will bring it more home to every putative patriarch that women go through a lot through procreation to perpetuate mankind. It will make one to appreciate better the enormous sacrifice of mothers. It may help the murderous maniacs in our society – the money and power ‘ritualists’, trading in human parts, cutting human beings into pieces; the herdsmen slitting throats, committing reckless genocide, splitting open wombs and bringing forth foetus unripe for deliveries; and heartless killers and armed robbers mowing down people – to recover their humanity. When they witness how difficult it is to bring forth a soul, they may be restrained from recklessly taking lives as they do now.

Is any of your children showing interest in your career?

Naturally! We are not forcing them to embrace our career, but being raised in the midst of wigs and gowns, so to speak, they are being orientated and socialised in that direction.

What is your advice to children without father figures?

They should make God their father figure. Remember, God is the husband of the widows and the father of the fatherless and orphans. However, the mothers of such children should compensate for such lack and be there for the children all the time. If there are good and responsible uncles or step-fathers, who can also help to fill in the gap, the mothers should not hesitate to bring such people close.

What major advice have you given your children about relationship?

I have not dwelt on relationships with them; I have dwelt on their studies. That is their focus for now. I tell them always to be respectful. They should show respect to everybody. They know the story of their mother and me. They know that when we met, the driver of our affection was not loads of money.

How do you appreciate your wife for taking care of the home despite being a lawyer too?

I pray for her always at unexpected hours and times; prayers that are rendered in Yoruba language – deep, meaningful, spiritual.

How do you reward your children for their good deeds?

I buy them gifts; I monetise the rewards. They save the money because they don’t have to spend it, but sometimes they do.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]