Dad relocated us from Govt House when he was governor — Makarfi’s son
Faisal is the first child of a former Governor of Kaduna State and ex-Chairman, National Caretaker Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party, Ahmed Makarfi. He talks about his father’s life and political career with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

Tell us briefly about yourself.

I am a civil engineer by training. I am in my late 20s. I attended Kaduna International School and then proceeded to Adesoye College, Offa, Kwara State for my secondary education. I attended the University of Greenwich, London, for undergraduate and master’s degree. I am currently studying for my PhD at the same institution. I am an entrepreneur and currently own FAMCO Group of Companies.

How do you feel being the child of a former governor?

My father has all the qualities that I think every good father should have. He is honest, courageous, hardworking, disciplined and determined in achieving his goals.

What childhood memories can you recall with your father?

Some of my fond memories include travelling together as a family. I guess the happiness of spending some quality time with him made most of my childhood memories of him a special one. Then, it’s strictly family time. We talked on a variety of topics. There was always a joke or two to laugh about. My brothers, sisters or mother would have a story or two. It’s always fun when we are all together. But of course, my best moments are always when I do very well in school and there will always be pride in the way he talks about it.

There was a time when I was, maybe seven or eight years old; I had a terrible flu which made me unable to breathe properly. He asked my mother to get him some hot water. He put some menthol in the water and sat me down. He covered me up to inhale the mint steam. After that, he rubbed some menthol all over my chest and made sure I had clear airways. Till date, I do that when I have a terrible cold.

How often did he visit you when you were in school?

He visited me as often as time allowed.

How did he discipline you when you misbehaved?

The ‘eye’ of course! There was no corporal punishment from him. My father isn’t the type of man you would want to disappoint; so, misbehaving wasn’t really an option for me.

What punishment can you recall that he gave you when you did wrong?

Honestly, none that I can remember. As I said, as his children, we never want to disappoint him.

How does he create time for his family despite his tight schedule?

My father is not just my father alone; he is also a man of the people. Basically, anytime I need him, he doesn’t waste a second. He is always there. Besides, he devotes time on a regular basis to talk to the family.

Considering your privileged background, were you pampered?

I had a well-disciplined upbringing. I had sound basics that mostly included good education, which hardworking parents try hard to give their children. While growing up, I was made to understand the difference between wants and needs. I got my needs but had to work very hard for my wants and still did not always get them. Another lesson I learnt is that in life, you do not always get what you want no matter how badly you want it.

What did your father tell you about politics?

My father has the golden rule which says, “Everything in its own time.” As I was growing up, his main advice to me was to work hard and get good grades in school. As an adult, he gave me an opportunity to know about politics.

If your father was not a politician, what would he have become?

He would have been an academic!

What kind of man was he at home when you were growing up?

He is soft-spoken, organised, cheerful and jovial, most especially when discussing business or life in general.

What were the lessons he taught you about life?

He told me that integrity cannot be bought.

What are your father’s worst and best moments?

His worst moment is when he loses something or someone close to his heart. His best moments are when he sees people succeeding or his children attain milestones.

What are his favourite food and drink?

His favourite food is pounded yam and egusi soup. Water tastes best for him.

Why do you think he likes pounded yam and egusi considered as Yoruba food?

My father was just born in the North to northern parents, but at heart, he is a Yoruba and Igbo man. He is a man of the people. So, don’t be surprised that he likes delicacies like pounded yam and egusi. He also likes isi ewu (goat meat). He socialises with the Igbo culture more perhaps because he attended the Federal Government College, Enugu, for his secondary education.

What is his best music?

I can’t really recall but I presume he likes old school songs.

How does he exercise?

He likes taking a walk.

What are his likes and dislikes?

He likes peace and dislikes incompetence, laziness and dishonesty.

How do your friends react the first time they know who your father is?

Well, I get the “oh yes! You look exactly like him!” and I still get those responses when I meet new people.

Does your father’s name open doors for you?

Not in the material manner. But then, when I meet people and they hear he is my father, they treat me with respect. To be honest, because my father wouldn’t allow any sort of cutting corners just because I am his child; In fact, I get extorted by people most of the time than being favoured.

What are the things people do not know about your father?

From the day he was born, his people considered him as their lucky charm because his birth ushered in prosperity and happiness. He likes to drive and even now, he drives himself on his personal errands. He became a successful entrepreneur at a young age. His humble background reflects in every aspect of his life. He is a passionate adventurer.

What is his assessment of the current administration, especially on the state of the economy, federalism and herdsmen killings?

He thinks that the people voted because they were dissatisfied with the last administration. The problems of our economy are a lot more structural and have been with us for a long time. Instead of apportioning blame, Nigerians should come together and salvage our country. Therefore, if it is a failure, it is a collective thing.

There is a demand for restructuring and rearrangement of the country which our political leaders and all others that are stakeholders across the nation should take seriously. The herdsmen attacks, leading to the killing of innocent and harmless people, are worrisome. The current administration needs to maintain the successes achieved during the 2015 elections in the North-East to avoid the regrouping of deadly groups.

Can you share your father’s most challenging period while climbing the ladder of his career?

He is a man who started from nothing to achieve what he is today. Every step of the way was challenging.

What role did your father play in your career choice?

None at all! I made my choice without any sort of influence from him and he supported me all the way.

How does your father relax?

He finds joy in spending time with his friends over dinner, watching football or playing golf.

What is his opinion of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, anti-corruption war and Biafra agitation?

I would suggest you ask him that personally.

Who are those your father considers his role models?

He has always admired Nigeria’s founding fathers for inspiration in his life.

Who are your dad’s best friends?

I think his childhood friends are Alhaji Safiyanu and Dr. Omoniyi Bu’ari.

What are his secrets of keeping healthy?

He lives a disciplined lifestyle without overindulging in anything.

What lessons have you learnt from your father?

He taught me that education is important; and encouraged me to attain the highest level I can and that every other thing will fall into place. He believes in the power of words. He taught me to guard my tongue because words, when uttered, cannot be taken back. He taught me how to give back to my people and the community. He taught me to be disciplined and punctual, for time is priceless.

Did you enjoy any special treatment from friends at the time your father was governor?

Not really! No.

Did he spend time with his family when he was Kaduna State governor?

I think he tried his best. He created as much time as every governor had to spend time with his family.

How was life at the Government House when he was governor?

I was 11 years old when my father became a governor. As you can imagine, I was pretty excited to be in a different environment but later had to leave soon for boarding school.

How is life outside the Government House?

I did not spend a lot of time at the Government House for two reasons, Firstly, I had to leave for boarding school as I said earlier and secondly, we moved out of Government House to our family home because my father didn’t want us to get used to that life.

What was your impression about governance when your father became governor?

I was a child when my father was a governor, and that was it.

What do you wish to change about your father if you have the opportunity?

He is my father and I wouldn’t change anything.

Has he ever inspired your interest in politics?

His vision for the people and for the country is enough inspiration for anyone to want to implement change and do what is right.

Does being a child to a popular politician put a burden on you?

A child of a popular politician? No! But as my father’s son and his first child, I have the responsibility to uphold my father’s name and image as well as set good examples for my siblings. As I said, being the child of a popular politician has, in no way, created boundaries for me. I did not grow up as a popular politician’s son. I grew up as my father’s son. Because of the discipline I got from home, I never cultivated the habit of a lavish lifestyle. There is nothing I cannot do because of my background. There are things I chose not to do because with the disciplined I received, I knew better.

Does he have a nickname?

The people call him “maikarfi” which is a Hausa word for “the strong one.”

Would you encourage him to contest presidency?

One thing I know very well is that should he become the president of this country, he will take it upon his administration to become an inexorable force for a better Nigeria. He will inspire the citizens of Nigeria to work together towards a common lofty goal of non-dependence on oil. He believes that if we can find it within ourselves to embark on such an audacious and unconventional enterprise, we will surely be on course to create a perfect union. He would focus on the central issue that will carry this country into the future for instance, education. Education comes with endless opportunities in all aspects. Throughout the world, education has brought hopes to people.

I also know that he has the blueprint of getting us out of the epileptic power supply through a renewable source of energy and a health care system that works for everyone. As someone known to be a peaceful and detribalised Nigerian, he will oversee the restructuring of Nigeria that works for everybody. I believe my father will bring about this change with the right and interests of the people in mind. Nevertheless, I will support his decision of either contesting the presidency or not.

What were your fears during the PDP leadership crisis with Senator Ali Modu Sheriff?

My fears were not really about losing the battle in court but more about the survival of the party. The All Progressives Congress needs the PDP to play its opposition role effectively so as to deepen and lay a foundation for a virile democratic system. That was what my father fought and stood for and I supported him all the way.

Is he a fan of any football club?

I believe he supports our local club called Ranchers Bees FC. But of course, he likes watching foreign clubs as well, mostly Arsenal or Barcelona I believe.

What relationship advice did he give his children?

The only advice we got was in the area of choosing who to spend the rest of our lives with. Like every dad, he told us to choose loving, compassionate, patient, supportive, reliable and smart women. But then of course, he sent me a funny joke strictly for the men on wives (Laughs).

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]