My husband was a sweet boy, I regret he’s no more to cuddle me — Ndibe, 92
Ninety-two-year-old Mrs. Elizabeth Ndibe shares the story of her life with TONY OKAFOR

Where and when were you born?

I was born to the Umuaroli Ilagbo kindred of Onitsha, Anambra State, on April 18, 1925, on afor day (one of the four market days).

Who were your parents and what were their professions?

My parents were Joseph Odikpo and Maria Odikpo. Joseph worked at the United African Company of Nigeria in Umolum, while my mum was a housewife.

Tell us about your childhood.

As much as I can remember, I grew up among my age mates both boys and girls. Well, many of them died young. I cannot remember many of them now.

Were there some childhood tricks you played that you can remember?

I cannot remember any childhood trick that I played. I did not grow up at Onitsha, I grew up at Umueze, my husband’s place at Amawbia. Then, we used to go out at night to play in the moonlight both the boys and girls. As I grew up with both boys, I didn’t differentiate myself from them.

What brought you to Umueze in Amawbia since you are from Onitsha?

My mother, from Nawfia, got married to my father from Onitsha. She was living with her aunt at Umueze when my father died and I lived with her then. That was how I came to grow up in Umueze in Amawbia and not in Onitsha.

Which schools did you attend?

I attended St. Mathews Catholic School, Amawbia, up to Standard 4. Then, in 1941, the government said all senior girls should go to convent school at Adazi. We went there and I did Standard 5 and 6 at the Holy Rosary School, Adazi. When I passed out from Standard 6, I went to Holy Rosary College, Ihiala.

There, I sat for high elementary in December 1946. When I finished the high elementary, I first taught at Holy Rosary School, Emekuku. After staying there from 1946 to 47, I went back to Loretto Adazi. I taught there for a year or so and then transferred to Holy Rosary Girls School, Nnobi in 1949. I stayed at Holy Rosary School, Nnobi, from 1949 to December, 1953.

In 1954 January, I came to St. Mathew’s Catholic School, now Igwedumma Primary School, and was there till February 1958. Then, I followed my husband to Yola in March, 1958.

We wedded on March 1, 1958. When I was at Yola, I taught at St. Theresa Catholic School till the start of the civil war in 1967.

When I returned to the East, I taught at St. Mathew’s Catholic School. From there, I went to Enugu-Ukwu, where I taught at St. Anthony’s Catholic School, Enugu-Ukwu as my husband was equally at Enugu-Ukwu at the time as a postmaster.

From there, I went to teach at St. Simon’s Catholic School, Ukpo. I came back to St. Mathew’s in 1971. I also taught at the CMS Primary School, Amawbia.

I went back to St. Mathew’s after the civil war. I retired at the Igwedumma Primary School on September 1, 1982. I am now a pensioner, a senior citizen. I have been a pensioner for about 36 years.

When did you meet your husband?

We grew up together; he was an Umueze village boy because he was from Umueze. I grew up here too; so, we knew ourselves as young people. Then, I used to call the bluff of men because I was as brilliant and as strong as they were. Some of them said I was a tomboy because I would not tolerate insults from them. If they gave me a knock, I would run after them and retaliate.

How did the relationship develop into marriage?

He was a nice boy; he wasn’t a playboy like other boys. His parents weren’t very rich. I have this love for poor people; so, I wanted to complement it.

He read only Standard 6 and I was in higher elementary. Then, it was a taboo for girl that went to college to marry a person that was below her. But I wanted to show people how to live a happy and family life.

Among all the boys that we grew up together, I liked him the most because he was humble, handsome and didn’t pretend like other boys who would tell you flattering things. That was the attraction.

At what age did you marry?

I got married at 33 and he was about five years older than me. He was born in 1920. He was training his other siblings and didn’t have much to boast of. Then, I was training my only brother who died a few years ago.

What childhood memories can you recall growing up?

Well, I wasn’t a truant and quarrelsome. I love to mix with people. I love poor people. If I saw people who didn’t attend school or pushing trucks, I used to pity them even though I wasn’t born with a silver spoon. I love to help and give because I was happy with myself.

What is your favourite food?

I like egusi soup with garri. At the moment, I don’t know what I crave because I hardly eat these days. Old people don’t eat much again though I also like cooked yam with vegetable, a well-made vegetable yam.

How do you stay healthy?

I don’t take alcohol or soft drinks. I have glaucoma and cataract in both eyes. As for staying healthy, I do not eat heavy meals. I do not eat anyhow like if one sees something, one must take. I don’t eat that way. When I eat and I’m filled, I don’t look at other things. I used to take soft drinks when I was young. I’m not diabetic.

Tell us about your children.

God is great. He blessed me with five children, four boys and a girl just as I prayed for. Before I got married, I didn’t live a flamboyant life. When I was growing up, I only tried to be neat and that’s all. No extra makeup and I mixed with boys.

I didn’t answer some boys who wanted to marry me. I was full of myself; so, they said that I had outgrown marriage age because I was 33 then. When I got married March 1, 1958, shortly after that, I gave birth to my first child, Ogochukwu Ndibe, a medical doctor, also called John.

So when people in our market got telegram that I gave birth, they were shocked and said, “Ehh! Elizabeth could give birth!” I was even hiding the pregnancy because I was ashamed. I love my husband so much. After one year and five months, I gave birth to Anthony, that’s Okey Ndibe.

Three years later, my daughter came. She lives in the US with her husband.

Another one came two years later, Jude. He works with a private company in Lagos as an architect. My last child lives in the US. I’m happy with all of them and they are happy with me too.

What is the secret of your old age?

Though people say that I’m old but within me, I feel that I’m still young. Whenever I tell my son, John, about my health, he would say, “Do you think you will be as strong as you were then?” The secret is God. He is great and He keeps me. I used to go to mass everyday though I join somebody in the car because I cannot work out on my own.

Before now, I used to trek to church on my own, but I can’t do that anymore. This situation started only a few years ago. When people see me, they say they won’t believe I’m up to 92. Some even wish I get to 100 or 120.

What do you wish for?

The will of God.

How do you spend each day?

I’m not a heavy sleeper though. Once I wake up at 4am, I pray with my rosary every day and must go to morning mass every day. When I return, I don’t go out again but only use the rosary to say “Thank you Jesus” on the average of 80 times a day. I am targeting 100 times though.

What is your advice to couples on how to make their marriages work?

My advice is that when you want to marry and live a family life, be ready to be married for life whether good or bad. Marry with the hope that you want to make your lives better for you and your family.

Do not marry for money or beauty. Put God first and be patient with your partners because you both are two different people. Mother and children quarrel, not to talk of a man and woman from different family backgrounds. If there’s a misunderstanding, try to settle it before it gets out of hand. I don’t like people marrying and quitting from it.

Once you marry, love yourselves. Do not lay complaints or look at other people’s homes. Try and make your homes as good as one of those you think are better than yours. I do not like breakups in marriages. Be good examples to your neighbours and children if God blesses you with some. Never think of infidelity. Though they say man is polygamous by nature but when you marry, careless life will not help you to keep a happy home.

Think of each other and try to satisfy each other as much as you can. Remember that two are one flesh. When my husband was alive, we did not keep separate accounts and he used to give me pocket money. When the money finished, I asked for another one. I was not extravagant. Live according to your means. That is my advice. Be faithful. If you meet nice thing on the way, buy it for your wife, and vice-versa. I used to buy clothes for my husband and we used to wear same clothes with our children.

Did you play active role in politics?

You know man is a political animal. I won’t say I’m not interested in active politics because during my tender age, that’s why people call me iron lady. I wanted to show that there’s nothing bad in playing politics. To play politics according to the rules is to think about others. When I tried to vie for councillorship in the village, they said I had built a house and finished training my children. What would I be doing in politics? But you don’t go into politics to be a king. You go into politics to serve others, but people are no longer serving others. They go into politics to amass wealth. They see politics as status symbol and look down on others. During elections, I vote according to my conscience.

The trouble with Nigerian politics is that those who are supposed to be truck pushers and those without professions are those jumping into it. When they win elections, they become lords unto themselves; nobody can go near them. That is the trouble with our society.

Do you have any regrets?

My regret is that my husband is not around me to cuddle me. He was a sweet boy.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]