I wish I could spend more time with my children –Adefila
Thespian and culture enthusiast, Segun Adefila, shares his fatherhood experience with GBENGA ADENIJI

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood means responsibility and an adjustment in lifestyle. It means that one’s life is not only about oneself anymore as there are other people looking up to one for guidance and survival so to speak. It also comes with its own responsibilities and anxiety. You have to ensure that your family members are comfortable and happy. Fatherhood to me is an indescribable joy.

When did you become a father?

I became a father about 13 years ago.

Was your first child’s gender what you wished for before your wife gave birth?

I was not really bothered about what gender the child would be before the birth of my child. I was only concerned about having beautiful children around me. My first child is a girl. I was proud and happy. It was a fulfilling experience for me.

How did you feel the first time you held your child in your arms?

It is not only about holding my child. There is a joy that comes with it anytime I hold a child. The innocence, complete trust and adoration make fatherhood a great feeling for me.

What are your challenges as a father?

The challenges of fatherhood are numerous. William Wordsworth says, “The boy is father of the man.” We were once kids too. One has to be a role model and much of their upkeep depends on one. You also know that in our kind of country, one is dealing with many things – housing, utility and other bills. There are the physical, emotional and economical challenges. One also needs to provide for the kids and make one’s business work. There is joy in that anyway.

How do you discipline them whenever they act up?

Whenever my children misbehave, I talk to them. They know what it means anytime I am angry at them. I talk to them mainly. Like I said, I don’t rely on caning too much except if that is what they want.

Caning is the last resort in my house. It is never the first thing because kids will always be kids. But I insist that they must be disciplined and be morally upright. They know what to do and what they are not supposed to do. If they repeat it, they know they want to be caned and they get ample doses of it.

What was your greatest fear before you became a father?

Well, apart from knowing that one day, one shall have children to whom one will be responsible to in terms of their upbringing, taking life’s decisions and feeding, the anxieties were there but I didn’t have much fear. It was not heavy in my heart.

Tell us about your father and the ideals you imbibed from him which are helping you in training your kids.

My father was my first teacher. He taught me hard work. He taught me how to be self-reliant. My father taught me how to believe in myself. He was an ex-service man and anybody trained by a soldier would agree that the training was usually hard. We got lots of beatings from my father. I got lots of beatings. After my father passed on and I became a father, I began to understand the things he tried to teach me. I realised that he loved me and wanted me to be successful in life and that was the reason he disciplined me the way he did. I thank God that my father moulded me.

How do you reward your children for their good deeds?

My children know that whenever they do something good, we joke and laugh about the whole thing. The biggest reward I give them is to be close to them whenever they do good things. The reward of gifts and other things are secondary. But the only time we disagree is when they go against my command as children can sometimes do; that is rare anyway. Being their friend is my reward system for them anytime they behave well or do something good.

What major fatherhood memory can you recall?

The fatherhood memory I can recall was when I bought a book on theatre at the National Theatre, London, and my son tore up the cover page. I was angry but when I glanced at him, he looked at me like he had done something good for me which I should be proud of. Recently, my daughter dropped my phone on the floor and rewarded me with a big laugh to show that she got my attention. There are lots of pleasant memories.

What is your advice to children without father figures?

In an ideal world, there should be no child that is fatherless. In Yorubaland, where I am from, it is often said that only one person gives birth but many train the child. I think all children should pay attention to sensible adults. Also, Yoruba say it is where mothers are scolding their children that sensible children without mothers learn too. They learn from what is being said to caution the offending kids to behave well.

How do you create time for them considering your busy nature?

I pity my children because I am not usually with them as much as I would love to. But every little time we have together is the best of my life. We go out together, travel out and do many things together.

Is any of your children showing interest to follow in your footsteps?

They are showing flair for the arts but I don’t want to have a say in that. I just want them to be themselves and be happy.

What do your children say about your productions?

They see my productions and they are happy. Sometimes, they get bored and sleep off. They are my critics and when they love my works I am happy. They see some productions and tell me that they prefer them to mine. I take them to see some other productions and they like them and tell me that they want those ones. Once in a while, they can be that frank.

Is there anything you would love to do differently as a father?

I wish I could do more for them, like to put the world at their feet for them to enjoy. If there is anything I would have loved to do differently as a father, I wish to give them what they would want.

How do you relax whenever you are not on stage?

The best way to relax for me is to hang out with my friends and most especially to be in my house with my family and loved ones. Talk, eat and sleep.

How do you appreciate your wife for keeping the home and taking care of the kids when you are not around?

The credit for the raising of our children should go to my wife as you rightly observed. She is always at home with them. How she is able to cope with her business and take care of the children and me is something that I don’t know. She is very magical. Having the right wife also helps the artiste to be stable because you will not be worried about what the children are up to. It helps when one has a caring wife who will not sacrifice her children for her career and other things. The credit goes to her for being a dutiful and amazing wife.

How do you feel that your creative efforts have helped to move you from being a Bariga Boy as you are fondly called to a popular thespian?

Well, as a Bariga artiste, it has helped. I was born in Lagos, Lawanson to be precise. All my growing years, I lived in Bariga except for the few years when I went to a boarding school for secondary education. The transformation has been tremendous. I am always grateful to God for the developments from one stage to the other. Being a Bariga-bred artiste has its advantages because it keeps one steady. People cannot scare you with poverty. They can’t scare you with ghetto life and the street cannot intimidate you. At the same time, if you are a calm and cool person, you will stand your ground anywhere you go. Bariga-bred artistes are like a steam that flows to every part of the world, but we don’t forget our source. So, being an artiste that grew up in Bariga is a beautiful experience in spite of all the challenges.

What is your advice to would-be fathers?

Any man that is old enough to be a father is a father. We should not forget that. You are not a father only when you are biologically the father of a child. Also, it is not all those old enough to have kids who are prepared for it. All fathers should be prepared for what they are going into. The money to train kids will come but fathers shouldn’t divert it to something else.

Do you give your kids pocket money?

I don’t give pocket money to my children. But sometimes, I can give them N50, N100 to buy some things. One should allow them know the value of money and how it should be spent.

What can you say about the contributions of The Crown Troupe of Africa to stage theatre in Nigeria?

The Crown Troupe of Africa is in its 22nd year. It started in 1996. Like every human being that develops, the metamorphosis has been from one level to another. At the beginning, we started out to just entertain people and later, it began to have some level of ideology that the arts should stand for something.

I don’t know what we have contributed to the Nigerian stage because we didn’t meet the stage empty. There are precursors in the industry. We have people who have done lots of things in the arts. They left huge shoes for us and we are still struggling to fill them. They have done their bit. They are the ones that should be celebrated. We are still trying to raise our heads. But in 22 years, The Crown Troupe has not been inactive.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]