Dad could eat amala, bitter leaf soup twice daily — Akinwumi Isola’s son
Akinjide is the son of playwright, critic and culture activist, Prof. Akinwumi Isola, who died at 79 in Ibadan penultimate Saturday. He talks about his father’s academic life and ideals with GBENGA ADENIJI

Tell us briefly about yourself.

I am the first child and only son of Prof. and Mrs. Akinwumi Isola. I have two younger sisters. I studied Law at the Obafemi Awolowo University and run a law firm in Lagos.

Why are you not in the academia considering the intellectual stature of your father?

My father was not choosy when we wanted to choose courses. He only encouraged us to choose courses that we have interest in and flair for. When I told him I wanted to study Law, he did not persuade me to go into the academia. He encouraged me and emphasised that we (his children) should be focused in any discipline we chose to pursue. My father gave all his children the freehand to pursue their preferred careers and supported them. I recall that he started buying law books for me from my first year in the university. His support assisted me to remain focused as a student. He provided all what his children needed to excel in their academic works.

Did you enjoy preferential treatment while in school because of your father’s academic prestige?

I did not enjoy any preferential treatment in school being a child of Prof. Akinwumi Isola. There was no such thing even though some of my lecturers are his friends. My father does not believe in using his position to influence anything for his children or those close to him. He is always willing to support us and those close to him by offering advice but not to influence decisions with his position or contacts.

He is an advocate of hard work. My father never went with me to any lecturer for whatever reason. Even my lecturers never allowed any student to play with their studies. They ensured that we studied very hard to earn good grades. Thus, there was no way I would not be serious because academic standard was high and my parents expected the best from me and my siblings.

Were there places your father took his family to for relaxation?

Yes, my father took us to many places for relaxation. When we were in Ile-Ife, Osun State, we used to follow him to Oduduwa Hall in the OAU to watch plays. There was a time one of his plays, Ole Ku, was staged and he took all of us to the venue to watch it. I cannot forget that day because it was an interesting performance. When he was also going on a sabbatical in the US in 1986, we all travelled with him. It was a wonderful experience. We had much fun and did a lot of shopping. It was indeed a vacation because all the family and one of my cousins staying with us then had a nice time.

In what ways did he make sure his children study at home?

I will always appreciate my father for encouraging us, that we should strive for the best. He told us early enough that we should take our education seriously. While we were in the secondary school, he appreciated our efforts when we came home with good grades. That motivation made us to always put in our best to make him proud. My father studied so hard and it was the same thing he expected of us while we were in school. During my days in the university, each time I returned home late at night from where I had gone to read, I would discover that the light in my father’s room was on. I would go to his room for him to know I was back only to see him studying. He has not changed. Whenever I go to Ibadan, Oyo State, to see him, he was always reading or writing.

How did he discipline any of his children who misbehaved?

He used to verbally chastise any child who did anything wrong. He did not use the cane. He believed that words could convey thoughts better on children than using the cane. I remember that he only used the cane when we were very young because he could have felt we would not understand the meanings of his words.

Your father’s works promote the Yoruba language and culture. Does he also mandate his children to speak the language?

My father insisted that we should speak the Yoruba language always while we were very young. I cannot recall when he spoke the English language to me. He speaks to all his children in the Yoruba language. He speaks the Yoruba language to everybody except the person does not understand it. I have seen him communicate in the English language to some people but I can boldly say that whoever my father does that with does not understand the Yoruba language. My children speak the English language as it is common with children nowadays but my father does not speak the language to them.

When we were growing up, everybody in the house spoke the Yoruba language. My mother, who trained as a teacher, also spoke with us in the Yoruba language. Nobody spoke the English language at home when we were young. My father is highly versed in the Yoruba language and culture and he always does everything to promote them. I know he has a good grasp of the English and French languages. He translated Wole Soyinka’s Ake: The Years of Childhood and Death and the King’s Horseman from English language to Yoruba.

How does he settle disagreements with his wife?

The kind of respect between my father and mother is phenomenal. The kind of relationship they have is wonderful. I have never seen my parents argue over anything. They respect each other. They do not call each other by name. My father will call her mummy, while my mother will call him daddy. Those who know my parents can testify that they have never disagreed on any issue. Their relationship is so intimate that as their children, we are trying to emulate them.

How did he handle the loss of his second child many years ago?

My father hardly betrays emotion. I did not see him cry. My mother was devastated but my father remained strong. He told us that it had happened and we should take heart. She was sick and my mother drove her to the hospital on August 31, 1988. I remember vividly that the day was a Wednesday. She was very brilliant and studying Accounting at OAU then. I did not really know what happened then, but all I knew was that we lost her to the sickness. We thank God that He held the family at that moment and made us come out of the pain stronger.

What was the mood in the family when he was awarded the Nigerian National Order of Merit?

We were all happy for him when he received the Nigerian National Order of Merit award in 2,000 because we know that he is very hard working. I think the award was informed by the plays he wrote then that were staged. His plays were very popular then. I was particularly happy for him because I felt the award was a reward for his hard work. The award made me to believe that hard work pays. I was grateful to God that his hard work was recognised by the administration of the then President Olusegun Obasanjo. He received the award in Abuja in company with my mother. It was a joyous period for us.

Are you a member of the Pyrates Confraternity like your dad?

No, I am not.

Why?

I believe when the organisation was established, it was for a purpose. The ideals and focus were lofty; but the students of nowadays have misconstrued those ideals. Also, we should not forget that some things in life are about interest.

Which of your father’s works do you like most and why?

I have read Ole Ku, Madam Tinubu, Koseegbe, Belly Bellows, Faabu among others. The one I enjoyed the most is Saworoide. It is an interesting book and very deep. The film is also fantastic. The one I read the most now is Faabu which is a compilation of jokes. It is full of funny jokes. I love most of the jokes and I do relate them to my friends to make them laugh when we are together as if I am the originator. My father is a humorous person and that is why the jokes are original.

How does he like to dress?

My father likes to wear native attire with a traditional cap to match. If one is going out with him and one wears buba and sokoto without a traditional cap, my father will advise the person to complement the dressing with a cap. I attended an event with him in Lagos recently and wore a native dress without a cap. He quickly advised that I should wear a cap. He does not wear shirts and trousers. When he was lecturing at OAU, I knew he used to wear trousers with woven buba.

How does he relax?

My father is not too sociable. Most times, when he wants to relax, he will go into his study. He also watches television. I recall that when he was younger, he used to play lawn tennis. We have lawn tennis rackets in our house.

What is his favourite meal?

He eats most food but his favourite meal is amala and bitter leaf soup. He can eat it twice daily.

How has his name opened doors for you?

I must confess that my father’s name has really opened doors for me. When people meet me and get to know I am his son, they want to relate with me. They know him as an upright and disciplined person; hence, they expect that any of his children would exude same traits. Many of those I meet often feel happy to associate with me because he is my father. It is also a challenge for me to continually promote the values I have learnt from him.

What are these values you have learnt from him?

I have learnt to be truthful. When my father was in secondary school, he was nicknamed, ‘Honest man’ because of his truthful lifestyle. He has also taught me hard work. My father hates laziness. He also shows humility in whatever he does. I have also imbibed his humble nature. He relates humbly with anybody regardless of the person’s status. I remember a day when a motorist crashed into his car. He just moved out of his car, examined the damage and said to the person, ‘You can go. You couldn’t have done this intentionally’. I have also learnt not to discriminate or look down on people.

Who are his friends?

My father’s friends cut across the academic, private and public sectors. Some of them are Profs. Olabiyi Yai, Wole Soyinka, Olasope Oyelaran, Wande Abimbola, Biodun Jeyifo, Femi Osofisan, Niyi Osuntogun and Kole Omotoso. Gboyega Arulogun and Dr. Bioye Olaoye are also his friends. The late G. O. Adeagbo, the late Isaac Osunbunmi and the late Dr. Larinde Akinleye were also his friends.

What kind of music does he listen to?

When we were young, my father used to listen to the music of Ayinla Omowura, Dauda Epoakara, Fela, Sunny Okosuns, Sunny Ade, Ebenezer Obey and Ogundare Foyanmu among many others. His choice of music is quite broad.

This article was first published on December 7, 2014

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]