Dad was quiet, he hardly showed it when angry — Chima Ubani’s daughter
Adaoha is a daughter of the late civil rights activist, Mr. Chima Ubani. She talks about her father’s ideals with GBENGA ADENIJI

Tell us about yourself.

I am Adaoha, a student and a daughter of the late Chima Ubani, who was a pro-democracy activist.

What can you recall about your father when you were a young child?

I recall that we had a wonderful time together. He always wanted to play with me because I was the only one then as far as I can remember. I think my mother was pregnant with the second child at the time.

What were the things he did to make you happy?

He always bought ice cream for me and carried me on his neck. Also, my father used to take me to school to listen to the rhymes we were taught so that he could sing them with me. He would ask my teacher the rhymes, sing them with me before leaving the school and repeat them when he got home. I cried a lot so he used to come to my school to see me.

Your father was always on the move. How did you behave anytime he was not at home?

I always cried anytime he was not at home because my mother didn’t have the time to play with me as I think she was pregnant then. I missed him anytime he was not at home. But sometimes, my mother would call him on the phone for me to talk with him. In that period, I would be relieved. After two days, if he was not back, I would continue crying until I was petted by my mother. Once he returned, he would come with fruits because he didn’t like junk food. There was also a long plantain chips he used to bring home for me.

As young as you were at the time, what did you notice that he used to spend time on whenever he was at home?

He loved to be in his room reading newspapers and books; he had no time for TV. He also loved writing and playing with me. Whenever I tried to take the newspaper or book from him, he would pat me tenderly and say, ‘Mummy wait. I am coming.’ He gave me the pet name, Mummy.

Does any member of your family call you by the pet name?

Yes, my mother does.

How often did he take you out?

It was always an everyday thing anytime he was at home. He used to take me to his office too. I remember that I saw one Aunt Gloria who carried me one day that I was there. She was the only one I recall because she carried me and wanted me to stay by her side.

Do you know his favourite food?

He was not the choosy type. He ate what he felt was good enough to eat. But my mother told me that he loved eba and could take it four times in a day. She said she used to cook like four different types of soup and keep them in the fridge for him to choose the one to eat eba with. He also loved wheat bread and that it is the type of bread we eat now. With my father, if you want to eat bread and you didn’t want wheat bread, then you weren’t ready to eat it. I take wheat bread and love it because of him.

What kind of father would you say he was?

He was an amazing father. In some homes, one would hear continuous quarrels but that did not happen in our home. He was a quiet father. There was always love in the air anytime my parents were around. He didn’t like trouble. He enjoyed being on his own.

Did he ever beat you for doing something wrong?

Yes, but it was only once. I was making my hair and I shouted. He came to where I was and used his palm to smack my buttock. After a while, he told me that only mad people and those in the markets shout. He said I should not shout again.

Who were his friends?

I didn’t see many of his friends at home. But I saw the late human rights lawyer, Mr. Bamidele Aturu, more. I used to see him with my father in our house when I was young. Growing up, I saw him visit us frequently.

How does your father’s name help you?

My father’s name earns respect. I remember a time in school when some of us were to be punished for something we did. I cannot remember what the offence was. The principal called us and when it got to my turn, she asked for my name. I told her and she said, “Which Ubani?” I said, “The activist.’’ She said, “He was your father? He was a good man.’’ She said I should be allowed to go.

Were you aware the day he died?

Yes, I saw my mother and some people crying that he was dead. I knew he was dead but didn’t know what death meant then. I thought he was going to come back. Growing up, I understood what it means to say someone is dead and became aware that my father was not coming back. I had to then ask my mother how he died.

What was your mother’s explanation to you about the reason you wouldn’t be seeing your father every day when you were a young child?

She told me that he travelled. Each time I asked her when my father was coming back, she would assure me that he would be back soon until I was old enough to know that he wasn’t coming back.

Your father was a defender of the oppressed, spoke truth to power and lived for public good. Do you intend to follow in his footsteps?

He died while on a job he had yet to finish. He had yet achieved what he wanted. I would be willing to start from where he stopped and finish what he left unfinished. I want to contribute to the development of Nigeria.

What do you miss most about him?

I miss his fatherly love, care and advice. He was a great father and a good man. As young as I was then, I knew that I had a wonderful father. It is quite painful that I lost him when I was very young.

How did he react when happy?

He would only smile and hug his wife. I never saw him dance.

How did he behave when angry?

He was always quiet. One wouldn’t know when he was angry because he wouldn’t show it on his face. My mother told me that before my father showed he was annoyed with somebody, then it meant the person had really overstepped his bounds.

She said he was fond of saying that when adults talk, children are supposed to keep quiet, and that he expected children to only listen and learn from whatever is being said. She added that my father believed children are not supposed to say that adults are telling lies; rather, they can say what the adults say is untrue.

My father loved children so much and would find a way to make up the time he was away anytime he was around. My mother told me that my father trained in taekwondo and was always at the National Stadium for training during weekend when he had no meetings.

How did he handle disagreements with his wife?

I was too young to know about that but I like I said earlier, they were always happy whenever they were together. My mother had said if it were possible to choose a man again, she would not hesitate to choose my father all over again.

She said my father never talked anyhow or meddled in other people’s affairs. My mother said if a female friend visited her, my father would welcome the person well and continue whatever he was doing before the person came in. But once he noticed that the conversation was getting to ‘women talk’, he would pack his things and go to the bedroom. He would not come out until the person had left. That was the kind of person my father was.

How did he love to dress?

He loved to dress simply. He wore shirts and trousers. Sometimes, he put on a jacket and other times, he wouldn’t put it on.

What values did you learn from him?

I learnt that one should not react when angry. I saw that things others would angrily react to were things he would be calm about.

Would you have wished that he was not an activist?

No, by being an activist, he was able to contribute his quota to the country’s progress. If he were not an activist, he might have been a lawyer or teacher and probably not known.

Do his feats put any pressure on you?

Yes, they do especially as I am expected to live up to his good works and person. My siblings and I have to do well as Ubani children. There is no excuse we can give on that expectation.

How does his family remember him every year?

My mother attends the memorial ceremony in his honour and on his birthday, March 22, we pray together for the repose of his soul. Sometimes, we do what he would have done had he been alive like going out, cooking food and baking cake.

What would you want him remembered for?

It is for what he is being remembered for — his good works.

Would you say he had been adequately honoured dying in service of humanity?

I don’t think so. He died serving his country and except for some people, who continue to reach out to the family, nothing is done to cater to his widow and the children he left behind.

Who are the ‘some people’ you think the family is grateful to?

They are many. But I think I can immediately remember Mr. Innocent Chukwuma of Ford Foundation and his wife; pro-labour activist, Mr. Abiodun Aremu, the Nigeria Labour Congress and the Academic Staff Union of Universities. Our family cannot also forget the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who my mother said made it possible for us to be residing in Lagos and the Governor of Osun State, Mr. Rauf Aregbesola. There are also Dr. Abiola Akioye-Afolabi, Prof. Chidi Odinkalu and the wife of the late Bamidele Aturu, who continue to stand by the family.

How are the values you imbibed from your father helping you to cope through life?

I am a hot-tempered person. I can do certain things when I am angry. If someone says something, I want to react quickly to that thing. But because of my father’s calm disposition to life, I learnt to stay quiet and watch. I react though but only when the person has moved beyond his or her boundary. This is one aspect I learnt from him and it has been helping my journey through life.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]