Some people ’ll still criticise my dad no matter how well he does his job — Kebbi gov’s daughter
Maryam is a daughter of the Governor of Kebbi State, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu. She talks about her father and his political career with DOLAPO AKITOYE

Tell us a bit about yourself.

I am 21 years old and currently studying Quantity Surveying at a university in West England, United Kingdom. I am the second of seven children.

What is the experience like growing up with your father?

My father is a busy man but he always tries to be around us. He tries his best to be involved in what we do with our lives. When I was younger, we were not allowed to watch TV on weekdays because he felt TV is not for smart people. We always hid to watch it if we wanted to.

He made sure that we read at least a book separate from our school work. Everyday, including the weekends, one had to do school work. He also ensured we travelled together as a family.

How did the culture of reading he enforced on you assist in shaping your academic life?

Well, because of my father, I enjoy reading novels and I do not find it hard studying at all. I could get up and study anytime and any day. I think the culture of reading we imbibed from him made me smarter.

How does he discipline you whenever you did something wrong?

He never beat us with the cane or use any other thing. He would only call any child who misbehaved and talk to the child. He would talk about what one does wrong and why he does not like what one did. He always gives one a chance to explain why one did what one did.

Do you think this method of discipline worked for you and your siblings?

Yes, it does. You know, I feel both parents have a part in the discipline of the children because they would call us together and talk to us about what we did wrong.

How did he create time to bond with you and other members of his family?

My father and I used to do art together. He used to take me to the toy store. Also, whenever we were coming back from the outing, he would open the car’s roof and allow me put my head through. He also used to take us out to have breakfast.

What are some fond memories with him?

I recall during my seventh year birthday, he came from London with a cake for me. I was very happy.

How has life changed since your father became a governor and would you say it was different from when he was a senator?

Things are different now that he is a governor. We are extra cautious of the way we dress and act. There is more security. People look at us differently and tend to treat us specially. As you would know, some people ask for favours and it puts one in a position where one has to know the right thing to say. This is because it is like most people want to meet with him.

I don’t give them assurances nor say no to their requests. We have to try our best not to draw any attention to ourselves because people are looking at us more now than before.

Security (operatives) are with us everywhere; so if we go to a place, even in Abuja, people are like, ‘who is that?’.

Would you say that puts any burden on you and your siblings?

No, it is not difficult. The fact is that my father is a simple man as well. So, we naturally do not attract attention to ourselves.

How is life in the Government House?

It is not bad. There is less privacy because there are lots of people working and entering the place and all that. It is not bad at all. I believe, for the kids, it is fun because they have lots to do like horse riding or playing.

How do you feel when you read criticisms of his administration in the dailies?

I understand the fact that he is a public figure. So, no matter how well he is doing his job, some people will still say what they want to say. Though I do not like what they say, I cannot hold it against them because it is their opinion.

Did your father influence your choice of course of study?

No, he did not. He basically asked what I wanted to do and when I told him, he was supportive. I think as long as it is a professional course, he is okay with it.

Do you discuss politics with your father?

We mostly talk about academics and school. My father is much interested in education and that is what he discusses with me. He mostly talks politics with my brother. To be honest, I am not really big on politics.

Your father studied Economics. Is any of his children also studying the course?

Well, not really. I think my brother wants to go into politics when he is older.

Does your brother want to be fully involved in it or be a behind-the-scene figure?

I believe that he wants to be at the forefront in politics.

What are your father’s hobbies?

He likes to exercise. He also loves reading books. He enjoys watching the news and playing Sudoku.

What books does he like reading?

He likes reading biographies and books about the world. Basically, he loves reading intellectual books.

Does he watch football?

He does occasionally.

How sociable is he?

My father receives visitors on a daily basis. He has a few close friends.

Which prominent Nigerians are among his close friends?

I do not know any of his close friends that are prominent Nigerians.

What is his favourite food and drink?

He mostly drinks water and he enjoys solid food.

What soup does he prefer to eat with solid food?

My father mostly enjoys bitter leaf or vegetable soup.

How does your father react whenever he is upset?

He reacts by just walking away from the situation.

What are his likes and dislikes?

He likes people who speak well. He loves people who have good manners. Like I said earlier, he likes watching news and reading books. He also dislikes people who lack respect and table manners.

What attire does he love to wear?

He wears traditional attire mostly.

Who are your dad’s role models?

I do not know to be honest.

How is the relationship between your father and mother?

The relationship between them is great. They have been married for a long time; so, I know that they understand each other well.

How close are you to your father?

We are quite close.

Would you say his name has opened doors for you?

I personally cannot say how his name has opened doors or the doors it can open because I am still in the university. I do believe after graduation, it would open a lot of doors for me.

What values have you imbibed from your father?

Basically, one thing that I would say is that he is very hardworking. This attribute of his inspires me to be hardworking because I have discovered that my father is just as hardworking as he was before he joined politics. There is no difference at all.

My father has helped me see how important education is. He has taught me to always face challenges head-on and to be honest about my problems. He taught me that it is not a shame to ask for help.

Has he always wanted to be in politics?

Yes, he has always wanted to be in politics to help society. From a young age, he has always been interested in helping people achieve their goals and contributing hugely to the development of the country as a whole.

Do you know some of the challenges your father faced while climbing the ladder in his political career?

I know that campaigning and all of that were really stressful for him. The same also played out when he was a senator before he became a governor.

What challenges do you think he is facing as a governor?

From what I can see, it is hard to get people to efficiently do what is meant to be done. Also, there is less free time for him.

Do you feel pressured to attain a certain level of success because of your father’s political attainment?

Yes, definitely, his success puts pressure on us to live up to his expectations. When your parents do well, you, as their child, would not want to slack.

Do you know any of his favourite quotes?

I don’t really know any of his favourite quotes but my mother always says that the only thing that my grandfather left for my father was education. It was hard work that brought him to where he is today.

What do you think are his thoughts on the current state of the nation?

I think he feels that Nigeria is in a difficult time, but he is hopeful that the country would rise above its challenges.

Do you know if your father plans to remain in politics after serving as governor?

Honestly speaking, I do not know. I believe he would remain in politics after serving as governor.

What are some things that people may not know about your father?

My father loves kids so much. I also think people do not know that he loves country music.

How do you think your father wants to be remembered?

I believe that he wants to be remembered as someone who made a difference and helped many people.

Describe your father in three words.

My father is smart, hardworking and loving.

What profession would your father have chosen to do if he hadn’t gone into politics?

I think he would have been either a banker or a businessman.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]