I find it tough carrying babies under two months — Buchi
Popular reggae gospel singer, Buchi Atuonwu, otherwise called Buchi, shares his joys of fatherhood with GBENGA ADENIJI

How would you define fatherhood?

Fatherhood is extremely fulfilling knowing that you are raising people after your kind. A lion will beget a lion and a goat will beget a goat. When a man gets children, he tries to raise them according to his values. They do not have to be your kind in terms of practising your profession; they do not have to be you in the sense of doing what you do. But the value system is basically what you look at.

How has your career affected your fatherhood roles?

I do know that being an itinerant musician, frequent travelling, being on the road and around the world, it is expected that one’s fatherly roles are abdicated or compromised. But that has not been my experience. I have a close relationship with my children and the closeness is not just physical proximity. Of course, I would like to spend more time with my children but it is one of the sacrifices one has to make to what one believes in. Something must be sacrificed and for me, it is the time I would have spent with my wife and children. That notwithstanding, I do make out time to spend with them.

Did you witness the birth of your children?

Oh yes. I was in town and none of them was given birth to in my absence.

What was the feeling like carrying your first child for the first time?

I find it tough carrying babies under two months. Usually, I pull their legs, hands, cheeks, speak and play with them. But to carry them in my hands, it does seem to me that they can slip off. I only carry them when they are about three months old. I absolutely love children.

Is any of your children showing interest in your career?

All of them! They sing wonderfully well. My son plays the wind instrument and the girls play the guitar. My children are aged 21, 19, 17 and 11.

What are your challenges as a father?

To impact the right values in them knowing that there are contesting factors. These factors are the TV, the Internet, their friends and those they come across and their teachers. The values that the father holds dear may not be shared by these contesting factors. You may find out that strange habits creep in through any of these sources. It becomes the duty of the father to frequently talk to his children so that he will know where they are coming from and to also understand their worldview. This is because you cannot put them in a cocoon; you cannot put them entirely in your own world. They are exposed to people you don’t know and materials online you are not aware of; so, conversation is important. Communication is key on a regular basis.

How do you discipline your children when they misbehave?

I talk to them.

You don’t use the cane?

I took a lot of caning growing up. I took more than my fair share and I think I took their own share too. I have discovered that what the cane does is to correct. If you shout at your child all the time and you want to do more than shouting, you may need the cane to demonstrate an escalation.

If you do not shout at your children and only talk to them, if you need to escalate the matter, you will need to raise your voice and they will understand.

A child that is rebuked will take to correction. Words are stronger than the cane. It has worked for me. The Bible says whoever spares the rod, hates their children. To me, it does not mean you must use the rod. Sometimes, your rod can come in words. So, my rod comes in words to my children. I do not need to resort to violence before I can pass values to my children.

What values did you imbibe from your father which you are passing on to your children?

My late father was a civil servant while my late mother was a teacher. My father taught me honesty and integrity. They were both generous with the cane and that ensured that while I lived with them, I had to fall in line.

There comes the adolescent stage when you are too young to be called an adult and too old to be referred to as a child. You are left on your own at that time to demonstrate your independence; your ability to handle independence. Adolescence is a very difficult time in the growth of a child. It was during my period of adolescence that I picked up the habits and desires that led me on the path that I eventually went, away from the instructions of parents. But thank God for Jesus who recovered me from that path.

You moved from lecturing to music. Do you miss leaving the classroom for the stage?

The stage has become an extension of the classroom for me. When I minister on stage, I seek to impact on my audience like a lecturer impacts knowledge to his or her students. This is why you often find me speaking to my audience. I hardly go on stage and just sing and walk away. Words will come because I have seen the stage as an extension of the classroom. There is always a need to impact something beyond the sound. I keep telling myself that may be at the end of the day, I may return to the classroom. It is something I love doing. There is something beautiful about teaching people and watching them adjust progressively until they become masters in the subject you are teaching them.

Why do you always wear a cap?

It wasn’t intentional. It was something I love to wear and I felt it looks good on me. I felt very warm and comfortable anytime I wore it. I later realised that it gives me an outlook which helps my vision greatly. It is an outlook of the everyday man. It is an outlook of a young star. It is an outlook of an approachable person. I often say to people that I want to be that man a criminal can come to and speak to freely. I always say to people that I want to be that man a young boy or girl can easily talk to when he or she has made a mistake. And they would not feel like they are talking to their father or pastor or someone who will rebuke them. I want to be that person that people can confide in. The outlook puts me in a position to impact on people the values of the gospel.

How do you appreciate your wife?

I am not sure she will want me to tell everybody all the ways I appreciate her. But I think that my wife is the most advertised wife in the country. Every now and then, in my song, I appreciate her. In a song I said, ‘I woke up early this morning not knowing what to say. I thought about the good, good things He has done for me. I thought about my lovely children. I thought about my pretty wife. All I could think of to say was thank you Jesus. Mmmama mmmama mmmama imela’. I talk about her and I appreciate her so much.

In another song, I said, ‘How beautiful it is to wake up to the sound of a praying wife. It is a beautiful thing to have a praying wife.’ I have one and I appreciate her greatly. I tell her so and who she is beyond what she does. Tell your wife that you appreciate her and do not assume that she knows.

What special gift did your children give you in appreciation of your fatherly roles?

It is their company. I came close to tears when one of them said, ‘I want to be like daddy.’ I found that really touching. It is a great thing when you become your child’s role model. It gives one a sense of responsibility when you know that you are being watched, when you know that you can’t do or say just whatever comes to you because you are conscious of someone coming behind you. They are following in your footsteps and you are careful not to lead them astray. I would say that the greatest gift they have given to me is the sense of responsibility, that sense of caution in taking my step knowing that whatever I do, somebody is watching and emulating.

Which of your songs do your children love most?

I am not aware that they love a particular song of mine. I hear them sing the songs. They have their own songs and also sing songs of other artistes. They appreciate good music and it is not only about my music. My first daughter did a collaboration with me on a song titled, ‘His Name is Holy’. My second daughter also did a collaboration with me in my latest album, ‘Red Gold and Green’ on a song titled, ‘Holy Holy’ which I did with another artiste, Eben. May be they would like the songs which they collaborated with me on.

Is there anything you would have loved to do differently as a father?

Sometimes, I wish I could spend more time with them. Though this does not translate to regretting what I do for my Lord, what I do for the kingdom. I know that when I am not with them, I have gone about the work of my father.

How do you reward their good deeds?

Words! Beyond the gifts, words matter. I speak words to my children. I communicate with them. I let them know when I am impressed by what they have done and when I am not impressed.

What is your advice to fathers in their struggles to raise responsible children?

Never neglect to communicate with your children. Communicate with them and do not talk them down. Don’t say you are speaking with an inferior person. Place them at your level and you will be amazed at their capacity to understand. Engage them at your level and essentially, never cease to communicate with them. Never encourage your children to disrespect anyone or ignore education. Never encourage them to look away from godly values, otherwise, you may become the harvester of evil seed sown either by commission or omission.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]