Clamour for paternity leave gains momentum
Toluwani Eniola examines the views of parents and experts on the importance of leave for fathers when their wives put to bed

Every mother loves her children. But when Mrs. Aina Bankole (not real name) gave birth to a baby girl a few years ago, it didn’t make her happy. Reason: A few days after giving birth, Bankole began to struggle with symptoms of postpartum depression.

According to medical expert, postpartum depression, popularly referred to as PPD, is a medical condition in which a woman feels very sad and anxious in the period after her baby is born. It sometimes makes the women hate or harm the baby or refuse to cater to the child.

Bankole’s husband, who narrated her wife’s ordeal to our correspondent, said after his wife got delivered of their first baby, she called him while he was in the office to come home immediately.

He said, “I had to rush home, wondering what the problem was only for her to tell me she had struggled with the urge to harm our baby. She told me she had the urge to pick a knife and stab her to death. Then l became scared. It was after a visit to the hospital that I got to understand that women suffer this condition due to stress after childbirth.

“That was when I realised that paternity leave is important. However, l had to seek advice from our doctor on how to help her with it. That was like five years and nine months ago. She just told me now that the thought still comes even with our new baby. I knew that I needed to be around her more to encourage her.”

Bankole’s ordeal might have led to a tragedy had her husband not been around to support her emotionally when she was battling PPD. Her story supports the agitation for paternity leave by some male workers and women in Nigeria.

Unlike other countries, paternity leave is unfortunately not seen as a priority in many organisations. For instance, only two states out of Nigeria’s 36 states (Lagos and Enugu) allow paternity leave. For a while, many local and international organisations have been pushing for paternity leave on the basis that it facilitates work-life balance.

For instance, the United Nations Children’s Fund last year recommended four weeks paid paternity leave to ensure the healthy development of young children.

A few weeks ago, one of the country’s commercial banks announced an enhanced parental leave policy fused with paid benefits for its male workers.

Some new mothers, who commented on the development, believed it was a good policy. They told SUNDAY PUNCH that the adoption of the policy by other public and private firms would assist their well-being, especially in the first few weeks after birth.

One of them is Mrs. Kehinde Badmus. The mother of a six weeks old baby said the leave would allow many men to bond with their offspring in the first few weeks of birth.

She added that the gradual acceptance of paternity leave in some workplaces connoted a positive atmosphere for the couples and newborns.

Badmus said, “I strongly recommend a situation whereby men would be given paternity leave to assist their wives during the developmental stage of a new baby. Not only will this help men become better fathers, it will also inculcate in them the inclusion mindset and men will have a bond with their offspring.”

A relationship expert and housewife, Mrs. Fisayo Dayo-Samuel, observed that the task of parenting in Nigeria had been wrongly seen as the sole responsibility of the mother. This, according to her, puts a lot of burden on the mother and makes the task of raising the child a difficult process.

On the importance of paternity leave, Dayo — Samuel added, “Yes, I think men also need it because parenting is a collective job. It takes the availability of both parents to raise the child.

“Fathers also need to adjust to a new member of the family — a crying one for that matter. They need to be on the ground to support and help their wives with the babies and chores.

“In addition, paternity leave will allow men more time to support their wives emotionally, most especially those ones that have postnatal depression. The weeks after childbirth is a crucial one; it’s a moment they need the husband around to help them get out of the state.”

A female bank worker, who identified herself only as Blessing, holds a slightly different view. Blessing said the opinions of her female colleagues in the bank she works for on the essence of paternity leave showed that men do not really need it.

She said, “When I ask my female colleagues their opinions on paternity leave, they said, ‘What exactly will the fathers be doing at home?’ Some of them wondered what role the fathers would play, especially if the wives have relatives at home during the first few weeks after birth.

“In my view, I will be happy if my husband is granted paternity leave but he should be granted only on the condition that he will stay at home during the leave.

“If my husband will really be of help during the leave, that is fine. It will be interesting to watch him bath the baby, bond with the baby and do some pampering.”

But a civil servant, Mr. Gbenga Phillips, argued that paternity leave was important, adding that it should be made compulsory as a labour right in organisations in Nigeria.

Phillips said, “When my wife was pregnant with our first child, I deliberately refused to allow her travel to the United States to give birth because I wanted to witness the birth process.

“I did not have the opportunity to spend as much time as I wanted with her because there was no paternity leave in the organisation that I worked for. I had to adjust. It would have made a difference if I got paternity leave.’’

The Country Manager of Great Place To Work Nigeria, Michael Thomas, stated that paternity leave was long overdue for male workers in the country.

Sharing the result of a survey involving about 20,000 employees, Thomas said respondents consistently talked about work-life balance.

Thomas added, “We looked at a variety of practices in Nigeria in terms of employees balancing their work and life priorities. Some organisations are now doing great things. Some of them now grant paternity leave to their employees.

“Some give out 14 days paternity leave. Microsoft gives out a month paternity leave to its employees. Some also grant one day off to their workers every week to work from home. These are amazing practices.

“I think more companies should grant paternity leave. More organisations need to focus more on this, especially those with younger people and large female population.”

Supporting Thomas’ views, a medical doctor, Laz Eze, said paternity leave might enhance the mental and physical health of a nursing mother.

Eze noted that although it appeared that women would be the major beneficiaries of paternity leave, their children could benefit indirectly from it.

According to him, some women go through postnatal depression which is usually detrimental to their babies’ well-being. He said paternity leave would make their husbands complement their efforts in nursing the child.

He added, “Paternity leave is a good initiative because the father has a big role to play in the parenting process.

“In the first few days after birth, women have to juggle the task of caring for their babies with other domestic duties such as cooking and maintaining the household. This puts a lot of pressure on them which might affect their emotional health and in turn, indirectly affect the baby.

“Paternity leave is a win-win policy that all organisations should consider and adopt.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]