Teaching kids how to save money
MOTUNRAYO JOEL writes on ways kids can be taught how to save money

It has been four years since seven-year-old Bisi Adeboye started saving N20 in a little piggy bank her mother bought for her.

Though the saving was irregular, Adeboye hoped the money would reach N20,000 in two more years.

“My mother bought the piggy bank for me to save money. I save N20 on days I have. I want to buy something big for myself when I have saved a little more,” she stated.

Her mother told SUNDAY PUNCH that she bought her the piggy bank after she heard the story of a young boy who saved N30,000 to pay for his tuition.

“The young boy used to save N500; sometimes, he saved only N200. He was really dedicated. At the end of the year, he saved money for his school fees. The boy must be really proud of himself,” she said.

Mrs. Victoria Bassey believes in teaching kids how to save. She said she bought her eight-year-old son a piggy bank for his birthday last month.

Bassey recalled, “I make sure he saves at least N30 every day. When I was a young girl, my parents bought me a piggy bank. I used my savings to start a small business. The business lasted for about two years. I always advise parents to teach their children how to save.”

A father of three, Mr. Charles Ndubuisi, said kids should be taught how to save money in jars. He sees this as lesson number one.

“When your kids really want the latest and biggest toy, let them know they will have to save for it. Give them a jar for each of their desired purchases and offer them a small allowance each week in a denomination that encourages savings. For example, if you give your child N100 a week, give it to them in N20 notes. They can save all their cash for one purchase or drop in different jars for various savings goals,” he said.

According to a bank worker, Mrs. Temitope Jones, piggy bank and jars are not the only ways kids can save money. She said parents could open bank accounts for their kids.

Jones stated, “For parents, who don’t want to go to the length of opening a bank account for their kids, they could choose a specific place to put money. It should be a hidden location. Don’t use your wallet. It may look like a decent place to keep money, but due to its easy access and portability, it’s really not. Once you find a place for your kids to save money, ensure that they do not take out the money until they have reached your goal.”

Jones urged parents to make kids to be aware of how many weeks it would take them to save an amount of money.

“You need to have an idea of how much you want them to save and they should save on a daily basis. Each time they put money in a piggy bank or wherever, you can help them put a note showing how much closer they are to realising their saving goals,” she said.

Also, a mother of two, Mrs. Helina Bamgbose, said teaching kids how to save would go a long way in shaping their financial knowledge.

“Kids must be taught not to be extravagant. It isn’t everything they want they should buy. It is never too early to teach one’s kids how to save. I have heard stories of kids who saved to pay their school fees as a way of assisting their parents. One kid saved money to offset his mother’s medical bill – it was a small amount though. You never know when the money would be useful,” Bamgbose said.

A retired bank worker, Mr. Femi Abioye, who said piggy banks were good for short-term goals, advised parents to consider opening savings accounts for their older kids.

Abioye added, “In addition to helping to protect their money, a bank account offers a way to build their savings with interest. Watching the account grow can help drive home the point.”

He said teaching children financial literacy would enable them to take responsibility and become financially disciplined.

“The child will also understand the importance of saving and reaching a goal in a planned manner,” Abioye said.

A parent and economist, Mr. Ben Odigie, said the best way to teach kids to start managing money is to give them pocket money.

He said, “If they blow their allowance on a new game or toy and don’t have enough left for something they really want, that’s actually a good thing. They learn firsthand the consequence of overspending.”

Odigie said teaching kids delayed satisfaction would help combat the ‘buy now, pay later’ mentality that could throw them in credit card debt in future.

“Reinforce the idea that waiting pays off. For instance, make their favourite meal together with all the ingredients he or she loves. Teach them to spend less on their wants. The earlier a child begins to think in that way, the better. Life doesn’t always turn out the way we plan; your kids may end up having to work extra hard to achieve success,” he said.

Similarly, an economist, Mr. Uche Nwajiobi, said teaching one’s children how to save should be seen as an important step to preparing them for financial responsibility and a secure future.

According to him, it will not be a good thing if one doesn’t practise what one preaches for one’s kids by also saving for the future.

Nwajiobi said, “Whether we like it or not, most of us take after our parents and emulate the habits we observed in them during childhood. You need to act how you want your children to act when they grow up.”

He also advised parents to open discussions with their kids about money and the importance of saving.

“Money doesn’t have to be scary or a taboo. Use financial discussions to teach them. An innocent question such as ‘are we rich?’ can be answered in a way that emphasises family values such as hard work and responsible spending.

“Let your children know they can have an allowance, but it’s up to them to save up for things they really want. In addition, illustrate how much their money can grow overtime if they save,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]