Dad would have been an architect if he isn’t an actor — Yinka Quadri’s son
Muyiwa is one of the children of veteran actor, Yinka Quadri. He talks about the life his father leads off the klieg lights with GBENGA ADENIJI

Tell us about yourself?

I am from Oro in Kwara State. I am also into acting. I am the sixth of my father’s children. I hold a National Diploma in Business Administration from a private polytechnic in Offa, Kwara State. I am planning to further my education.

What childhood memories can you recall growing up with your father?

The childhood memory I can remember vividly was when we watched the 2002 FIFA World Cup Korea-Japan final together. Brazil played Germany in the final and won the tournament by two goals to nil.

Your father is an actor. Did he encourage any of his children to pursue a career in acting?

My father didn’t force acting on any of us, but he encourages any of his children who is interested in acting to go into it.

How does he discipline any child who misbehaves?

He only scolds any child who acts up. He does not use the cane on us.

Do you go to film locations with him and what is usually the experience during the trips?

Yes, I do. The experience is always fun, seeing things, meeting celebrities and going from one location to another. It is always fun.

Many people appreciate his craft and ability to play any role. How did he learn acting?

I was not born when he started acting. I believe practice makes perfect. He has passion for acting and he made efforts by joining a theatre group. Today, to the glory of God, he finds comfort in it because he is good at what he does.

Which of the movies he features in is your favourite and why do you prefer the movie to others?

I am a big fan of my father and I enjoy seeing him on screen. I do not have a specific movie he features in that I enjoy the most because I enjoy every movie he is in.

Your father plays herbalist role in movies quite well. Would you describe him as a native doctor in real life?

(Laughs) My father is not a native doctor. He is a man of God and a God-fearing man. To your question about if I would describe him as a native doctor in real life, my answer is capital NO.

How does he relax?

My father likes to relax by staying with his family. He especially loves to be with his wife who is my mother.

What songs does he listen to?

My father listens to different types of songs like hip-hop, fuji, juju etc because he is a music lover. I also get him the latest songs in town.

How does he react when angry?

My father never shows his anger on his face because he tries to caution himself a lot when angry.

Your father belongs to the Odunfa Caucus in the Yoruba Nollywood genre and his friends and protégés call him chairman. Did he tell you how he got the appellation?

Even at home, we all come him chairman. He is the chairman of the Odunfa Caucus and people call him ‘chairman’. That is where the name came from.

Are you saying his children call him chairman at home instead of dad?

Yes, we call him chairman at home. I am especially used to calling him chairman at home.

How does he react whenever you call him chairman?

He always replies well.

How large is his family and how many wives does he have?

His family is a one big family. He has two wives and he is blessed with nine children and four grandchildren. He looks forward to having more grandchildren.

What is his favourite food?

I think his favourite food is semovita.

How does he like to dress?

My father likes to dress smartly. He also loves to appear good-looking. He is a man of fashion.

Who are his close friends in the industry?

Actor Taiwo Hassan (Ogogo) has been his closest friend even before I was born.

What is his favourite drink?

My father’s favourite drink is fruit juice.

Your father appears as a no-nonsense person in movies. Is Yinka Quadri the actor different from Yinka Quadri the father?

They are different persons; they are very different. My father does not compare the roles he plays in movie to his normal self in real life.

How does he handle disagreements with his wives?

I have not seen him have disagreements with his wives.

How would you describe his mood the day he gave out the hands of his daughter, Yewande, out in marriage?

I would say it was an expression of happiness.

What major advice did he give you about life and relationship?

The greatest relationship advice he gave me was that I should make sure I carefully study the kind of woman I want to marry.

What would you like to change about him if you have the opportunity?

I do not have anything to change about him. He is my father and I will accept whatever he decides or does.

How has his name opened doors for you and how do people relate with you when they know you are his son?

People who know I am his son treat me with care and respect because of my father’s good behaviour.

Can you recall any favours you got because of who your father is?

The favour I can readily recall, which I got on account of who my father is, was when I was invited by Mr. Ademola Adelakun to feature in a movie, Babatunde Ishola Folorunsho. Mr. Adelakun never met me in person prior to the time he called me to feature in his movie. He did that because he recognises my father in the industry.

Does your father watch the movies he features in at home?

Yes, he watches the movies he features in at home.

What is your father’s view about Nollywood?

My father’s view about Nollywood is that it is a big industry and he desires to see Nollywood at the top level.

Your father is versatile in chants and incantations. Did he tell you how he learnt the art?

No, we didn’t have any discussion on that before.

How sociable is he?

My father is a social man and he knows how to manage his social activities.

What car brand does he like?

He likes Lexus Jeep and Toyota 4Runner.

Have you acted together with him in a movie?

Yes, I acted with him in a movie titled, Agbomabiwon.

What do his fans tell you about him when they see you?

Most of his fans love and appreciate him because he is good at what he does. I have met many people who usually tell me that my father is their best actor. They are also aware that he can act any character in any movie.

Where does your father take his family to for bonding?

My father does not have any specific place he takes his family to for bonding. He takes us to wherever we tell him we wish to go for relaxation.

When did he experience his saddest moment?

I have no idea of it.

Has he been to your school before and how was he received the day he came?

(Laughs) He has never paid me a visit in school but my colleagues are eager to see him. They are willing to see it happen.

What can you identify as his likes and dislikes?

My father’s likes are in the area of what he does. He likes doing his job and he enjoys going to Odunfa to meet his friends like Taiwo Hassan and Abbey Lanre. He also likes football. For his dislikes, he does not like dirtiness and lies.

What do you think he would have become if he is not an actor?

If he is not an actor, he said he would have loved to be an architect.

Why did he say he would have chosen architecture if he is not an actor?

My father always says he loves the job. He said he would have taken to architecture if not that he has committed himself to acting.

How often does he take his family to his hometown in Kwara State?

My father always takes us to his hometown during Sallah. He also always encourages us to go there whenever we are on holidays.

What are you most proud of about your father?

I am proud of his status in society. This is because most of the people I meet usually tell me that they love my father’s personality both in movies and in real life.

How close are you to him?

All his children are very close to him because he creates time for all of us. That makes all of us close to him.

What values have you imbibed from your father?

The values I learnt from him are many. But let me tell you that he is my mentor. I like the kind of life he leads. Also, his parents have passed on but he always remembers them and prays for them.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]