Today’s women are quick to quit marriage – Faneye
Eighty-two-year-old former teacher, Mrs. Esther Faneye, talks about her career and life with DOLAPO AKITOYE

Where and when were you born?

I was born on June 17, 1935 in Ijebu-Igbo, Ogun State.

What was your childhood like?

It was wonderful. I went to school in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. I don’t know my father because he died early. I was too young when he died. So, my mother had to move to Abeokuta. You see, at the time, when a man dies and his wife is young, the late husband’s male relatives would be jostling to marry her. That was the reason why my mother moved out of the home to Abeokuta. I went to primary and secondary schools in Abeokuta.

Did you go to the university?

No, but I completed Standard 6.

What did you do after completing Standard 6?

Before I concentrated fully on tailoring, I taught at a primary school for about a year. I resigned when I wanted to marry as was expected then because my husband was not in the area where I was working. After marriage, one could apply for a teaching job wherever one was based but my husband did not allow me to return to teaching. So, I started trading. I had learned tailoring then like I said and perfect in it. When I couldn’t return to teaching, I faced tailoring.

How did you meet your husband?

I met him in Abeokuta in the early fifties and we got married in 1957.

How did he propose to you?

He just talked to me one day that he wanted to marry me. We were living in the same area and we knew each other well before then. Even our parents were close. Before he proposed to me, we were just like family friends. That also made it easy for him to approach me because we were close friends.

Are you his only wife?

My husband married someone before me and we lived together in peace before her death 15 years ago. Since her death, I became the only one living with him.

How many children do you have?

I have four children and 15 grandchildren.

How was your experience in marriage?

I did not do white wedding; it was a traditional marriage. Our union was wonderful. I didn’t give birth early enough. We got married in 1957 and I gave birth to my first child in 1962. But during the time I had no child, I relied on God to answer my prayers and He didn’t disappoint me.

How many siblings do you have?

It’s a pity that I don’t have any. I am my mother’s only child. My mother was married for about three years before her husband died. She only had me before my father died. I don’t know the reason why she did that but my mother didn’t remarry.

Was she your father’s only wife?

Yes, my mother was my father’s only wife.

How would you compare marriages during your time and now?

Time is changing. Everything is changing. In the past, men could marry two or three wives. Then also, if you were married, you stay married unlike now that even if you are married, you still look for another woman.

You cannot do that during my time unless illness or death separated the partners. Now, it’s not very common to go and marry somebody who is married. Polygamy is not much popular now but my time, a man could marry as many wives as he wished without anybody worrying.

If you have your work and children, you faced them not minding what your husband was doing. If you have anything to do, you do it on your own. That time, since I already learnt tailoring before marriage, I opened a shop after marriage and engaged some apprentices. I worked hard and kept on working until my husband died.

Where was your husband from?

My husband was from Abeokuta and I am from Ijebu-Igbo. There came a time when he had to become a chief in Abeokuta. Once you are a chief, they would ask you to come home. We were living in Lagos at the time.

He told me that we must return home. I begged him because I didn’t want to go. I didn’t want to leave my work and all my children in Lagos. I knew that it wouldn’t be easy to move from Lagos to Abeokuta with the children. I begged him to reconsider his decision but he refused.

I said to him, “We own our house; we are not paying rent. What are we going to do be doing in Abeokuta?” But he refused. He went to Abeokuta and he sent people to beg me to join him in Abeokuta. I joined him seven months after he moved to Abeokuta.

That was how I left tailoring because I did not have customers in Abeokuta. I left tailoring and the shop where I used to sell petty things like garri, rice and other food items.

How was it moving from Abeokuta to Lagos, then Lagos to Abeokuta?

We managed it. When we got married, we stayed in Abeokuta for some time before we moved to Lagos. That time, he was working with a firm, CFAO. They later transferred him from Abeokuta to Lagos. That was why we moved to Lagos after our marriage. I had to follow him. Then, when he became a chief, we returned to Abeokuta. When he died, we moved back to Lagos. All my children are in Lagos. Since his death, I couldn’t continue living in the Abeokuta house alone.

How long were you married to your husband?

We were married from 1957 till he died in 2013. That is about 56 years.

What is your favourite food?

I eat solid foods like amala, garri, semovita and wheat. I take them with any soup. I like vegetable. If I finish vegetable today, I can cook another one tomorrow. I also like any draw soup like ewedu or okro.

Tell us your happiest day.

Well, as I earlier said, I started having children five years after marriage. So, my happiest day was the day I had my first child. Also, I was happy when I clocked 70 and on my 80th birthday, which my children celebrated for me.

What was your saddest day?

Sometimes, children can make one unhappy and later, one will be alright. They can upset sometimes too.

What do you think of today’s women compared to when you were younger?

As time is changing, we are changing too. We follow time as it moves. When I was younger, things were much different than what we have now. Then, we endured and didn’t worry much about anything. But now, women can’t stay for 20 years in a marriage. They will see anything they are not satisfied with and leave the husband. In our time, we didn’t do this.

Once you are married in my time, anything you see there, you must accept it as your destiny. On my 70th birthday, the reverend, who gave a sermon, said the same thing. He used me as an example to show that I married at a certain time and stayed in the same place.

He asked, “How many of you are still in the same place of your marriage?” They aren’t patient because they depend on the husbands to do things for them. For us, if our husbands did anything for us, we accepted things that way. If they did not, we accepted it too.

That was why we stayed with them till death. My husband died almost five years ago and he was very tolerant. He cooperated with me and there was no problem.

What can you say about the state of the country?

It’s a pity that I don’t enjoy it now. My eyes are not very good. I had to undergo an operation on my eyes but I don’t see very well. I can only say something about the cost of food items. Things are now expensive. We now buy a tin of garri for N1400 and it used to be N300. The way things are now, we have to manage them. It is our prayer that the prices of food items will come down well as they are gradually reducing.

How do you take care of yourself?

Well, I have eye problem and high blood pressure. I take the drugs the doctor gives me and I go for regular check-ups. I have someone who stays with me. She goes to work and attends evening school as well. Thankfully, she helps me around the house and whenever she is busy, I do whatever I want to do myself.

Do you have any regrets in life?

In life, there must be some circumstances that will not make one happy sometimes but not always. In that light, I can say I have no regrets.

How do you relax?

Since I don’t work again, I rest at home. I also enjoy watching television.

What is your advice to the younger generation?

I advise them to be contented. They shouldn’t emulate bad habits. It is also important for them to pray always. They should also use their God-given talents so as to make headway in life. They should also strive to lead a decent life.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]