Much ado about wedding rings
DOLAPO AKITOYE writes about why some married persons wear their wedding bands and others do not

Wedding bands are symbols that two lovers have exchanged marital vows. They are also signs that they would stay true to each other till death separates them.

Marriage is one of the oldest institutions in the world. While marriage has been going on for centuries, online sources noted that the first examples of wedding bands dated back to about 6000 years ago in ancient Egypt.

The Egyptians at the time viewed the circle as a sign of eternal love between spouses. This led to the exchange of braided rings made out of hemp and reeds among them.

As civilisation expands, other cultures adopted this practice like the Romans and the Greeks who embraced it as an image of fidelity. However, the modern exchange of rings is rooted in Europe and Christianity.

Today, it is common to see married couples, especially men, abandon their wedding bands no sooner than they wedded. Some people see such act as a way of encouraging infidelity on the ground that the married person without rings could wrongly mislead an unsuspecting admirer. Others believe there is nothing wrong in discarding wedding bands after marriage so far the person concerned is true to his or her marital vows.

A cleric at an Anglican Church in Osun State, Venerable Gbenga Oguntusi, says a wedding ring worn by a married person will remind him or her of the love and commitment sworn to.

“Wedding ring increases couples’ love for one another and it is used, to an extent, to scare a third party or trespasser,” the pastor argued.

Similarly, a psychologist at the University of Ibadan, Oyo State, Prof. Peter Olapegba, who describes wedding band as a “symbol of a covenant between two individuals,” states that one must understand that when a person gets married, the rings should be worn on their fingers from the beginning of the marriage to the end.

“However, these days, it is common to see married people that do not wear their wedding rings. This is found to be more prevalent in married men than it is in married women,’’ the don adds.

A woman, identified only as Mrs. Doris, who has been married for 23 years, tells SUNDAY PUNCH that she constantly wears her wedding ring unless when she takes it off to clean it.

According to her, she wears her ring constantly because it is “a reminder of her marital agreement and bond.”

She adds, “It makes me realise that ‘this is who I am even during unexpected situations.’’

Mr. Fabian David, who married 22 years ago, shares Doris view. David believes that wearing his wedding ring is a symbol that he has a vow to keep. According to him, it is a sign of respect to his spouse and loyalty to his marriage.

Olapegba explains that wedding ring is like ‘a social symbol’ to show others that “I am married and we are not on the same level.”

He argues that wearing of wedding ring also draws respect to the wearer as people will see him or her as more responsible and hence, show more courtesy than they would have if the person is single.

Another married woman, identified only as Kemi, supported Olapegba’s position. Kemi, who has been married for almost four years says, “One of the reasons I wear my wedding band is because of the respect it attracts. In this part of the world, people are careful of the way they talk to you when they see your wedding band.’’

Another married woman, who preferred to be identified only as Peju, shares similar position as Kemi.

Peju, who is in her first year of marriage, agrees that people accord married people respect.

“The part of the world we live is also a huge contributing factor to this notion. In Nigeria and in Africa as a whole, there is a lot of respect attached to a person that has said ‘I do’,” she says.

Besides, the issue of wedding bands is not a big deal to some married people who don’t wear them. One of them is a man who gave his name only as Remi.

Remi, who has been married for 28 years, explains that he usually forgets to wear his wedding band, adding that his wife initially had a problem with his attitude but eventually got used to it.

Mr. Adekunle Adekoya (not real name), who has been married for over three years, says he usually doesn’t wear his ring because he detests wearing jewellery.

Adekoya stated, “It is not like I am trying to mask my marital status. I’m not just comfortable with accessories on my hand, but I wear my wedding ring when I need to.”

He explained that his wife was also not comfortable with his not wearing his wedding ring at the initial stage of their marriage but later understood.

Olapegba believes a spouse’s refusal to wear wedding ring can have some consequences. “When a partner consistently refuses to wear his or her wedding band, it can lead to suspicion because the wedding band is supposed to tell the world that you are a married person and of course, you are expected to be proud of that status. If care is not taken, it could lead to friction in the home because the spouse will keep on asking why his or her partner does not want his/her colleagues to know that they are married,” says the university lecturer.

He adds that society seemingly puts more responsibility on a married woman to wear her ring than for a married man to do so.

Adekoya admits that sometimes, not wearing one’s wedding ring can lead people to wrongly guess one’s marital status.

He states, “There are times when I am not wearing my ring and the conversation drifts into a personal one. In that moment, I quickly make it clear that I am married.”

Famous quote

A wedding ring is a symbol of commitment; a promise, a pledge, and a vow — Anonymous

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]