When your partner is unemployed
If your partner is unemployed, it may lead to financial stress which can cause havoc in your relationship. However, there are several ways you can effectively handle the situation without making your partner feel insignificant or useless

Accept the situation

According to www.careeraddict.com, the first step towards effectively handling the situation when your partner is unemployed begins with first accepting the harsh realities. Before you can help your partner to overcome the discouragement and other issues involved with his or her unemployment, you need to brace yourself for all the possible scenarios. Accept the facts of their unemployment and the increased financial pressure, and make the necessary adjustments to your current budget. Work out a plan for how you both can survive the situation.

Balance your emotions

The next step is to find the balance with handling your own emotions. For example, you may initially feel obligated to continually sympathise with your partner. However, there will come a time when you must support your partner without showing negative behaviours or emotions. Make sure you maintain your emotional state because you won’t be able to give your partner the support he or she needs to get through that phase if you are emotionally imbalance.

Take care of yourself

Aside from taking care of yourself emotionally, you should also take care of yourself physically as well. With your partner being unemployed, it may require you taking on more of the financial burden in the home. You may feel more pressured at work to ensure that you proficiently complete your daily tasks so that you don’t lose your job. Find ways to ease yourself and don’t feel guilty when you take a personal day or spend time alone just to relax.

Develop a working strategy

It is important that you and your partner develop a strategy that will ensure you both successfully survive during this stressful situation. The two of you must be open and communicate honestly with yourselves regarding your feelings and emotional state. Talking to each other will increase your chances of getting through to the other side without breaking up the relationship. Devise a strategy of how you can supplement the lost income. Decide whether or not you will take on extra hours at work or if your partner will seek immediate part-time work or odd jobs to help out. When you have a strategy in place, it will help you to maintain a healthy emotional state as well as assist your partner from falling into depression.

Don’t nag

One of the worse things you can do in this situation is to discourage your partner by constantly nagging him or her on how many jobs they should apply for each day or if they got an appointment. Rather, you should be an encourager and give them your full support as well as constructive criticism when needed. If the situation of unemployment is handled correctly, you and your partner will greatly increase your chances of strengthening your relationship and staying together.

Be helpful

Your partner needs to feel that he or she is accomplishing something rather than being forced into a new situation. Especially for a man who is unemployed, he will generally feel useless and depressed because he can no longer provide for the household. Your job is to think before you speak, and make helpful suggestions. If your partner is constantly spending time at the gym, surfing the internet or hanging out with his or her other unemployed friends all the time, you may need to step in. But remember to be constructive in your suggestions and refrain yourself from nagging him or her.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]