I don’t understand how babies learn to suck their thumbs – Okunola
A businesswoman, Mrs. Joy Okunola, with a five-month-old baby, shares motherhood experience with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

How did you know you were pregnant?

I noticed I was always feeling tired and nauseous. After I missed my period, I decided to take a home pregnancy test but the result came out negative. I still wasn’t satisfied with the result. I knew my body didn’t feel right. I decided to go to the hospital for a proper checkup and that was how I found out that I was pregnant.

My husband and I were trying to have another baby. He was very excited when the result of the pregnancy test was positive.

What was your labour experience like?

Surprisingly, it was easy. I experienced slight pains. I had a natural birth. I think my husband’s presence at the hospital made me put to bed fast. My labour began at 9am and I put to bed at 4.30pm.

What changes did you experience during each trimester?

The first trimester was not easy. I got irritated easily. I constantly had a bloated stomach and suffered from indigestion most evenings. I got tired too easily, and was always hungry at night. But I tried my best not to eat too much and avoided whatever would give me an upset stomach.

During my second trimester, I was stronger and ate more. I didn’t feel nauseous at all throughout my second trimester. In fact, I had more energy.

The third tried trimester came with heartburn. Most days I suffered from heartburn. I regularly felt heavy and tired. I had no appetite for food; sleeping was also a challenge. My remedy for heartburn was warm milk – that helped a lot.

When were you delivered of your baby?

My expected delivery date was July 22, but my baby came before the date. I put to bed on July 13, 2017.

What did he weigh at birth?

He weighed 3.6 kilograms.

How did feel when you held your babies for the first time?

Words can’t describe how I felt that moment. I felt blessed. I also felt loved in different ways and I was grateful to God for my son and for that day. When I held him in my arms, I thought about the journey and the pains before delivery. I then I said to myself that it was worth it. I appreciated God and my husband for everything. Being a mother to my son is great. The feeling and connection with him is amazing.

What name did you give him?

We named him Oluwafalobomi Michael.

What food did you crave during pregnancy?

I craved for beef, pineapple and pepperoni pizza.

What has changed about your looks and sleeping habit since you gave birth?

I have added weight. I was slimmer but pregnancy has changed my looks. Since my son was born, I haven’t had a long sleep because he sucks at intervals.

Does he prefer breast milk to infant formula?

He prefers breast milk.

What were your worries when you began to breastfeed him?

At a point, I felt breast milk was not sufficient for him. I came to realise that a mother’s nutrition is key. I increased the rate I ate and it positively affected my milk production. I began to produce more milk. After a while, I realised that everything my baby needs to grow strong and healthy is in my milk. It is the normal food for my baby. In an article, I read that a mother and her baby would need to work together to establish her milk supply and maintain it as her baby grows.

What habits have you noticed in your baby?

I noticed he sucks his thumb. I really can’t understand how babies learn to suck their thumbs.

Who does the baby resemble more between you and your husband?

He looks more like my husband.

Being a mother and a businesswoman is taxing. How are you coping?

A woman must be able to multitask. I believe a woman is able to handle several challenges at the same time. We have the capability to execute numerous tasks because we are multitasking in nature. I love being a woman. A woman is a strong being. We make and build nations. Motherhood is a divine calling and to be chosen by God to be a mother is a blessing. I am forever grateful to God for making me a woman.

How do you handle confusing situations when nursing your baby?

Most times, my mother is always with me. I quickly get her view whenever I am confused about something my baby does. But when it is critical, I consult our family doctor.

There are nights he cries a lot. During the periods, all I do is to pick him up, rock or breastfeed him. Sometimes, I would sing lullabies or walk around the room till he sleeps.

I laugh when women complain about nursing their baby. I wouldn’t trade being a mother for anything in this world. Motherhood means walking into the toughest job on earth. My mother always says that motherhood comes with huge responsibilities and requires a lifetime commitment. This job does not have annual or sick leave. Quitting is not allowed. Motherhood allows me to stretch my heart and my capability in ways that I could never imagine.

Does your husband assist in nursing your baby?

My husband is a wonderful father. He is very supportive. He helps me rock our baby to sleep. He also helps in cooking when he is around. He is very caring and doesn’t joke with his kids. He also bathes them sometimes. He is also a wonderful provider.

Do you still give your husband attention since you have a baby to nurse?

Yes I do but I am learning how to strike a balance. Babies can be demanding.

What prepared you for motherhood?

I learned a lot about motherhood while growing up. I love children. As a young girl, I looked forward to the day I would have a child.

Do you allow people to carry your baby?

Whenever we go out, people always make faces at him to make him laugh. I guess it is because he loves to laugh. People say he is cute and that makes me happy. I get excited whenever I hear people make such comments. It feels good.

What has been your most challenging period as a mother?

I am not happy when he is down with cold. It weighs me down. It is not an experience I want to remember. I really thank God for strengthening me.

What has given you the greatest joy as a mother?

My children are my joy. Watching how quickly they grow and spending time with them bring me joy. I wouldn’t exchange my children for the world. They changed my life and I thank them so much for that. Whenever I see them, I am filled with joy. I have come to realise that everything I do and how I react to issues affect them.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]