If you marry for money, your marriage won’t last — Itobhomere
Eighty-five-year-old retired civil servant, Mrs. Theresa Itobhomere, shares the story of her life with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

Tell us about yourself.

I am the only child of my mother – the late Mrs. Otiti Akpa.

When and where were you born?

I was born on June 15, 1932 in Ahia, a village in Ubiaja in the Esan South-East Local Government Area of Edo State (formerly Bendel State).

What were the professions of your parents?

I grew up with my mother. I had no relationship with my father. I lived with her for some years before she left for Lagos in the early 40s for greener pastures. She was a traditional cloth weaver in the village; she taught me how to weave cloth. She specialised in weaving wrappers mostly for women. It was her means of livelihood. I later moved to Lagos in the early 60s.

Even though I wasn’t close to my father, Pa Ojelede Akpa, I knew he was a farmer and trader. He sold clothes, a business he was known for before he passed on.

Growing up, were there times you felt lonely being the only child of your mother?

Yes, it is one reason why I love children. I missed the presence of siblings around me while growing up. Today, I am happy to say that God blessed me with five lovely children – three daughters, two sons and lots of grandchildren.

Which school did you attend?

I attended St. Paul’s Catholic Primary School, Ahia in Ubiaja, Edo State. After my primary education, I moved to Lagos to be with my mother; I joined her in her business.

Why didn’t you proceed to secondary school?

I didn’t complete primary education. I was sick and couldn’t continue going to school any longer. At that point, my mother suggested that I should come to live with her in Lagos.

Who did you stay with while schooling?

I stayed with my mother but later moved in with my aged grandmother when my mother relocated to Lagos.

Did you eventually start a business in Lagos?

Yes, I did. I opened a canteen. I ensured I made all types of native dishes. I love to cook. It is always advisable to have your own business; that is my belief.

Did you seek a government job?

Later on in life, I joined the Lagos State Hospital Management Board as a health assistant; I was there until I retired.

How was your time there?

It was fruitful. My period there shaped my life for the better.

At what age did you meet your husband?

I met my late husband when I was 18 years old. I met him in Lagos.

What was the point of attraction?

He was a very good man. He was God-fearing too; that was one of the reasons I fell in love with him. He was industrious and hardworking. I always describe him as a caring husband and a loving father to his children.

What are you most thankful for when you look back at your marriage?

I appreciated the way he loved to show me off in public. My husband never in a day allowed myself or his children go hungry. He was a man of honour and dignity at home, work and in our community. He possessed good leadership qualities. I believe his good qualities influenced his roles as head and chairman of village and community associations in Lagos and beyond. I love him and will marry him again if such opportunity arises.

Were there other men who sought your hand in marriage?

Yes, I had admirers but that phase didn’t thrill me. I see it as one of the things a woman must experience especially if she is beautiful. However, my husband and family have always been my priority. I love them with all that I have.

What kept the marriage going all through the years your husband was alive?

I would say patience; one needs to be patient in marriage. Although we had our share of ups and downs, but in all, our strong bond always prevailed. We respected and trusted each other. Our family values have always been important to me and my husband. We forgave ourselves numerous times. We were close friends too.

How do you feel at your age?

I feel blessed and fulfilled. I am not perfect but I thank God for a life well spent even at 85 years and still counting. I thank God most especially for good health and His grace. I’m glad to say that I am aging gracefully without ill health. This is not to say I have not had my share of old age illnesses, but God has been faithful. I am always joyful each time I look at my children and grandchildren. It is every man’s prayer to see their children and grandchildren in good health in their lifetime.

What is your life’s philosophy?

I believe there are many benefits inherent in doing good. Always believe in yourself and your efforts. Pray to God because with God, all things are possible.

How many years more would you love to live?

I am alive because of the grace of God upon my life, especially at this period of my life. I have decided to surrender my life to God to take control of it. If it is the will of God for me to live beyond my present age, so be it. Everything God does is perfect.

What is the secret of your good looks?

Thank you for your kind words. God has always been the secret of my well-being. I have learnt overtime to be happy irrespective of what life throws at me. Peace of mind and my children have not failed in their duties. They take good care of me.

What is your favourite food?

I love pounded yam with ohele (ogbonno soup).

What do you think makes a good marriage?

I believe in love; love supersedes all other things in marriage. Trust and respect for each other also matters. Perseverance and a forgiving spirit make a marriage stand the test of time. Above all, couples should put God first.

Why do you think many marriages break up nowadays?

Life is not bed of roses, so also is marriage. Marriage is a lifelong institution and any one not ready to get committed should not go into it. It is for mature people. Marriages fail because God is not put first. Today’s generation wants the fast and easy way out. I pray that God restores all troubled marriages. My husband and I could not have stayed long together by our efforts. As young couples, we ensured we stayed deep in the word of God. There are times we had misunderstandings but it did not last for long.

What is your watchword?

Honesty has always been my watchword.

Do you have any regrets in life?

I have no regrets at all; I married the best man in the world. He was someone who endured hardship. There were times we went through rough times in life, but he remained committed and strong for both of us.

What is your advice to young couples?

Before any one gets married, one should seek the face of God. Not all that glitters is gold. One should rely on God for guidance, marriage is not something one can taste and then opt out. If a woman has the fear of God, submitting to her husband would not be a problem. If one marries for money, the marriage won’t last. Every marriage needs the word of God to excel. In addition, respect, honesty and submission are necessary ingredients to keep one’s marriage going strong. Above all, couples must share the same vision. If they don’t, their marriage will experience friction.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]