Dealing with a talkative partner
GBENGA ADENIJI writes about how to help a partner who is garrulous

Several wise sayings and the holy books have underscored the importance of silence. In fact, it is believed that saying less is better than talking too much. Little wonder, the saying, “Speech is silver and silence is golden.’’

However, in some marriages and relationships the foregoing is the opposite as many struggle with their spouses’ garrulous nature.

One of them is a hair stylist who preferred to be identified only as Mrs. Adebesin. She told SUNDAY PUNCH that her husband’s talkative personality was disturbing.

Adebesin said her husband seemed to find it easy contributing to every argument and could talk from morning till daybreak if allowed.

“There was a day he was with some of his friends and didn’t know when he leaked a secret another friend told him about his (the friend’s) family’s financial state. Of course, he said he was joking but the damage had been done,’’ the dark-skinned woman said.

This habit is not gender specific.

A father of one, Mr. Akinkunmi Olawoyin, stated that partners have to address the issue in such a way that they don’t offend each other.

He said, “In extreme cases of talkativeness, one needs to go about it with maturity in order not to hurt one’s partner. Since marriage is first and foremost about friendship, the approach should be very friendly.”

A psychologist at the University of Ibadan, Oyo State, Prof. Peter Olapegba, advised anyone with a talkative spouse to employ negative reinforcement to check the habit.

He said, “By negative reinforcement, one can withdraw attention from the loquacious partner. If he or she notices that and needs attention, the partner will work on him or herself.’’

A businesswoman based in Ghana, Mrs. Funmilola Joshua–Ojo, however, advised those with talkative partners to allow them have their way most times in order to avoid trouble.

She stated, “One can hide vital information from such persons and also filter the kind of information to share with them. Let them know too that by talking too much, people won’t take them seriously on sensitive matters. ’’

Also, a legal assistant in a Lagos-based private hospital, Mr. Olasunkanmi Olumide, said one should only accommodate a talkative partner if such a person always makes a good point.

He added, “But if the person makes trouble every time without any cogent point attached to his or her talkativeness, you may need to find a way to change the habit.

“When he or she starts talking, you may pretend to be busy doing something else instead of listening. When you keep receiving information about your spouse’s garrulous habit, you need to tell him or her how bad you always feel about the news. You may need to always guide the person on the dangers associated with talkativeness. It is a habit developed subconsciously.”

Olumide stated that one’s consistent reaction to a loquacious partner in the home would greatly assist him or her on how best to behave outside the home.

A counselling site, Psychology Today, urged those with garrulous spouses to first listen when they start talking but not for too long and interrupt when getting too long.

To Gbenga Emmanuel, a talkative spouse is more of an impulsive talker. The educational administrator said when one has a partner who is voluble, to be on the safe side, one should avoid discussing confidential issues with such a partner.

He said, “Restrain from discussing issues considered official or personal with the person to avoid conflict. Rather, you can surfeit the person with mundane things that have no value. It is better to be safe than sorry.

“Helping the person is a very delicate one. You don’t want to offend and at the same time you need to assist. Just starve the partner quality information. Then, gradually engage the spouse to fill spare time. If it is a chronic case, let your partner know the damage the talkativeness is causing.’’

A Lagos-based teacher, Mrs. Ronke Ogundimu, noted that taming a talkative spouse could be a difficult task, especially if the person at the receiving end is also chatty.

She said, “If that is the case, the house will be on fire always. Both parties should not be garrulous else it will have dire consequences on such home especially on the children. This is because by the time abuses are thrown during slight misunderstanding or provocation, the kids will be worst for it. Thus, as they say, if one is a goat, the other party must learn to be a sheep for peace to reign.’’

Olapegba further advised individuals with loquacious spouses not to shout them down whenever they display the habit.

According to the psychologist, the best thing to do in such a situation is not to respond.

He said, “Don’t shout the partner down when he or she starts the habit else it will lead to more problems. Choose not to respond. This will make the talkative partner to check him or herself because you are not responding.”

Famous quote

I have learned silence from the talkative, toleration from the intolerant, and kindness from the unkind — Lebanese writer, Khalil Gibran Jr.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]