When your spouse is a workaholic
Motunrayo Joel writes about how to cope with a workaholic partner

It has been over three years since a bank worker, Mr. Femi Badmus, experienced happiness in his marriage. He said the problem wasn’t caused by infidelity but his wife’s addiction to her job.

“My wife is a workaholic,” he said. Narrating his ordeal to SUNDAY PUNCH, Badmus said he was on the verge of ending his marriage of five years.

He said, “My wife is married to her job; she has no time for her family. She works from Monday to Sunday. Is that fair to me? Even when her boss tells her to take a day off, she would refuse. She would rather go to work. I don’t know why she loves her job more than her family.

“I also work but I know where to draw the line. We have two kids; I wouldn’t trade the time I am to spend with my kids for work. My children come first in my life.’’

Collins dictionary defines a workaholic as someone who works most of the time and finds it difficult to stop working to do other things.

Badmus added that his wife works all day to the detriment of her health. He said that some months ago, his wife broke down and had to spend three weeks in the hospital. She was compulsorily placed on bed rest.

He said he considered visiting a marriage counsellor with his wife to save their marriage, but would file for a divorce if she refused.

Badmus isn’t the only one coping with a workaholic spouse. Mrs. Tosin Odeyemi is also in the same boat.

Odeyemi stated, “My case is tougher because I am a full-time housewife. I have no one to talk to and my husband is a workaholic. All he does is to drop some amount of money for our upkeep. He does not have time for his children. He works from Monday to Sunday. I feel sorry for myself.”

A report by Forbes revealed that couples with workaholic partners have a tendency of divorce at twice the average rate.

A mother of four, identified only as Ms. Johnson, recently ended her marriage. She said it was a tough decision for her.

“I had to set myself free; I was unhappy in my marriage. I don’t let people know the reason why I left him because they won’t see any sense in my action. I wore the shoes and knew where they hurt,” she said.

Ms Johnson said there were times she cried would cry for hours. “I own a boutique; I open the shop around 9am and close by 6pm to be with my kids. When my husband and I were still together, there were days he would sleep at work. I found that absurd. Even when I pleaded with him to come home to play with his kids, he would say he was busy,” she said.

A father, Mr. Rotimi Abiodun, said he had to counsel his wife about why she needed to change from being a workaholic. He said he knew that if he didn’t do that, it would affect their marriage.

Abiodun said, “I had to talk to my wife. I let her see the pros and cons of being a workaholic. I also told her that if she didn’t change, I would leave her. My wife was a workaholic. I don’t think I’ve met anyone who works like her. She used to work all days of the week including public holidays. My friends kept asking me how I coped with her in that she was usually away from home. I am glad she has improved. ”

The President, Counselling Ambassadors, Mrs. Regina Obasa, also said sometimes, it takes a wake-up call such as a personal or health crisis for a workaholic to snap out of the behaviour.

She said, “If you find yourself frustrated with your spouse’s constant obsession with work, it is important to remember that even though you don’t agree with his or her viewpoint on the issue, the situation itself puts you and your partner under intense stress. As a result, conversations about being a workaholic should be approached cautiously and with compassion.

“As frustrating as it may be not to scold your spouse for his or her overworking tendencies, nagging won’t work. Instead, share a positive tone on what your spouse has missed by working late or by bringing work home and not attending to you and your children. Also, you should try to stop aiding your spouse’s workaholic behaviour—you may be enabling your spouse’s need or desire to work excessively by delaying family meals, postponing activities or spending money on items that you can do without.”

Obasa added that a spouse could help their partner who is a workaholic by suggesting an activity that they could do together.

She said that although this could be considered a bit manipulative, providing an opportunity for one’s spouse to ease tension and create room for an honest discussion of the problem would largely help the overworked spouse.

Also, a marriage counsellor, Mr. Henry Ezekiel, said a partner denied quality attention might be at a high risk of depression, anxiety and agitation negatively impacting on the children.

He stated, “As I always say, nagging about a partner’s behaviour isn’t the best. Talking to your preoccupied partner and expressing your desire for his/her companionship, presence and partnership is more effective than criticising his/her excessive involvement with work. It is important for a partner to offer guilt-free loving invitations to join in family activities.”

Ezekiel added that if a marriage was in trouble due to a spouse working for too many hours, then marriage counselling should be sought.

Similarly, another marriage counsellor, Mr. John Isikpe, identified quality conversation as the first step towards overcoming marital issues related to living with a workaholic spouse.

According to him, expressing how the behaviour makes you feel will go a long way.

Isikpe added, “Work together towards an amicable compromise that leaves you feeling more appreciated and your spouse’s need to work fulfilled. Believe that your spouse’s overworking nature is not intended to abandon you but to take better care of you.”

He noted that solving marital issues related to a workaholic spouse could be an overwhelming task and oftentimes impossible to do alone.

“Fortunately psychologists and marriage counsellors are available to help mediate open dialogue between you and your significant other,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]