Handling people who visit without notice
TOLUWANI ENIOLA writes on how best to deal with people who pay visits without prior notice

A graduate, Yemi Ajose, had been out of a job for some years. He had sent his curriculum vitae to a senior manager of a firm but felt he needed to visit her to know his application status.

He, however, did something which annoyed the manager. Because of his relationship with her, he didn’t send a prior notice before visiting.

Security officials of the firm had asked him if he had an appointment and he said no. Ajose was not allowed to see her and he felt really bad.

“I should have told the manager that I would visit her but I just assumed it was not a big deal if I showed up unannounced because of my relationship with her. I was eventually turned back and the development changed my perspective on visiting people,” he told SUNDAY PUNCH.

Ajose’s experience plays out almost on a daily basis. Some people do not see any big deal in visiting people without an invitation or prior notification. But there are others who see it as a wrong thing to do.

Those who felt it was an improper act told our correspondent that they might be unprepared emotionally and financially to host such visitors. Others, who didn’t see anything wrong with the act, said people should have the spirit of companionship by treating their visitors well if they show up without notice.

“It can be really annoying having visitors without invitation and prior notification. These visitors come, especially when you want to go out. They will not want to leave in time,” said an anonymous respondent who reacted to the issue on Nairaland.

One of those who detest unannounced visits is a marketer, Banji Fagbohun. Fagbohun, who described unannounced visit as a very rude gesture, says he gets upset when people visit him without prior notice.

“Visiting me without an invitation has a series of implications. Apart from the security implications, it means that the visitor does not regard or respect the other party, especially as it relates to our cultural values in the South-West,” he stated.

An Ogbomoso, Oyo State-based businessman, Mr. Julius Olayemi, shared the same view. Olayemi said it was unacceptable for someone to visit another without prior notice.

To show his annoyance for such an act, Olayemi said he would not entertain any person who refused to inform him before visiting him.

“It is not a good habit and many Nigerians are fond of doing that. The only person, who can visit me unannounced, is God because He is my creator. He is the one that created me and because of this, He can come to me at any time.

“My siblings are lower than God and they are humans; so, they should be able to inform me before coming.”

A civil servant, who identified himself only as Olawunmi, has a different perspective on the issue.

According to him, if the reason for the visit is only to say “hello”, such a person can visit without notice.

He added, “But if the visitor will be coming over to stay for some time, I’ll appreciate a prior notice. If there’s no notice anyway, I may not be happy with the visit at first but will eventually get over it and entertain the visitor.”

He, however, said he was guilty of the same offence because he had visited people several times without notice.

Olawunmi said he likes “calling on people” to show surprise.

“I don’t think I’ve ever visited anyone for the purpose of staying overnight without informing them. The visits I made in the past were just to say hello and not to stay over,” he stated.

Also, 32-year-old Ayodele Ojo said before he got married, he lived a carefree life by welcoming visitors even without prior notice.

But now that he is married, Ojo said he would not tolerate that.

He stated, “Based on my marital status, I will say ’no’ to that because things are different now. I am now married which means I’m no more alone. Consent is needed for almost every action I take now.

“Just as you wouldn’t tempt your parents by bringing to their home unapproved visitors, the same also applies to your matrimonial home. For now, I believe my parents are my responsibility, which means whenever they come around, I have a role to play in their lives.”

Ojo added that since he would not encourage his parents to visit him without prior notice, he would not grant similar privilege to his friends.

He also faulted those who justified unannounced visits with an excuse that they wanted to “surprise their hosts.”

Ojo noted, “There’s nothing valid about surprise visits. Many things happen in a marriage that is meant for just the couple. In my opinion, couples should be aware of every visitor beforehand.

“What if we don’t have enough food in the house to go round? What if there’s no extra space for the visitor to sleep? What if the house is not tidied for a third person? What if one of the spouses is on a compulsory bed rest? What if one of the spouses travelled among a million more reasons? To respect my wife, it is important I inform her ahead if any visitor wants to come around.”

On her part, a community health worker, Mrs. Kadijat Hussein, said there was nothing wrong if someone visited another without informing the person ahead.

Hussein, who counsels HIV+ women in Lagos, said she visited patients without notice to remind them not to default on their medications.

She said, “I have visited many people without telling them I would come. None of them has taken exception to that. In fact, they appreciate such a visit because many of them were going through tough times so they needed people to stay with them to encourage them.

“Personally too, I don’t see anything wrong with it. I can receive visitors at any time if they so choose to come.”

A father of three, Peter Olajide, said visiting others without prior notice might not be a wrong decision always.

Olajide said those he would readily accommodate without prior notice were close family members and workers “who I have an intimate relationship with.”

He stated, “There are certain categories of people that can do that and I won’t be annoyed. Those people are family members and co-workers. Others include my pastor. For instance, if someone like Pastor Enoch Adeboye suddenly shows up in my apartment, I would be glad. That is a pleasant surprise.”

Speaking on the issue, a relationship expert, Mrs. Fisayo Dayo-Samuel, said informing one’s host ahead of time was a good etiquette that should be adhered to in order to avoid embarrassment and inconveniences.

She said barging into other people’s homes unannounced could cause conflict between couples.

On how to handle visitors who show up without prior notice, Dayo-Samuel urged people to create a workable system to relate with unannounced visitors.

The system, according to her, should be communicated to the visitors.

“Couples, for instance, can create a family ideology, values, mission and vision statement that will serve as a guideline to the kind of system they want to run in their home.

“With this, you can have open and flexible communication with your partner. It helps the visitor to know the values and behaviours that are expected in such an environment,” she added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]