Dad didn’t expect to come back alive from Congo peace mission –Louis Edet’s daughter
Henrietta is a daughter of Nigeria’s first indigenous Inspector-General of Police, Louis Edet. She talks about her father’s life and career with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

Tell us about yourself.

I am Dr. Henrietta Williams, a gynaecologist with special training in a branch of fertility care called NaPro Technology. I am married to Chief Ladi Rotimi Williams (SAN). We have four children; two are lawyers based in Nigeria. The other two are in England. I have three grandchildren.

What do you remember about your father’s time as the Inspector-General of Police?

I was born in 1950, which is exactly half way through the century. I was privileged to be in contact with the colonial administration. At the time, you couldn’t live in Ikoyi if you aren’t white. My family was one of the first black people to live in Ikoyi. There was apartheid in Nigeria at the time. I witnessed apartheid in Nigeria. I remember walking into Ikoyi Club, Lagos, with my family and we were told that we wouldn’t be served because we weren’t white. My family had those challenges to overcome. I remember all those bits of trying times for Nigeria – when she (Nigeria) had to move from a white colonial environment to a ‘Nigerian-only’ environment.

I still remember that my father was on leave when he got a call on the assassination of some generals. It was during the 1966 coup. I was part of the unrest. I also remember that there was a change in administration. My father was then asked to resign because he was not Hausa. From that time, appointments were no longer on merits; it became a political affair. Kam Salem was asked to take over as Inspector-General of Police

During the period, all those in administration were changed and northerners were brought in.

How did your father react when he was told to resign?

He simply adhered to the instruction. He didn’t argue. But I remember that his countenance changed anytime he came home. It wasn’t a happy look. It was an extremely traumatic period. But because he was a gentleman, his values were different.

Where was he posted to?

He was given a post in the Nigerian embassy in the United Kingdom. I was about 15 years old. We all went to the UK. He was given a section in the Nigerian embassy to oversee. It was a pleasant and peaceful job.

After the civil war, he returned to Nigeria and was made Commissioner for Home Affairs. He was asked to resettle all the Biafran refuges in the South-East. By then, I was in the university and didn’t return to Nigeria with him.

How close were you to your father?

I was very close to him. I guess because I am the last child, he took me everywhere he went to. He taught me how to fish, swim and hunt. I refused to leave him. My mother was always worried about me. He also taught me to be courageous. He always said I should never show that I‘m scared even when I’m faced with a scary task.

Who were the people who visited your home when you were young?

I saw some of his boys who later became IG after him such as the late Etim Inyang. White men regularly visited us too. I also remember the Queen of England’s visit. My mother had to make sandwiches. Sadly, I didn’t get to see the Queen; I was busy making sandwiches with my mother. All the police officers on duty had to be fed. We made sandwiches till late in the night. Little wonder I’m good at making sandwiches.

I also remember when the Queen went to Tarkwa Bay. All the police officers deployed there lined up with their backs facing her. They were not allowed to see her in swim suit.

How many children did your father have?

He had five children – only two of us are alive; my elder sister and me.

How did your mother cope as IG’s wife?

My father used to call her Saint Margaret. She sacrificed a lot and I think she was a prayerful woman. He married her right from convent. That helped her take on her role as his wife. She also played the wife of a diplomat when he was posted to the Nigerian embassy in the UK. She constantly had to entertain people. She was a brilliant cook and seamstress. She made all her dresses herself. She taught us how to cook and sew. She was the old type of housewife. Towards the end of her life, she worked in the Central Bank of Nigeria with other high ranking members of the administration. She was in the note-counting section.

Were there times his family feared for his life?

Yes, of course! He was always in the centre of danger from his days as a young police officer. I think that was what propelled him in the sight of his bosses, and why he was made the IG. He was sent to subdue a dangerous cult somewhere in the East. They asked him to get rid of the cult and he did. He was a committed Christian which also helped him succeed in the task.

He was also sent to the Congo to fight. He led the United Nations troops to fight in the Congo. The UN needed troops to go to Congo and fight a rebellious group. He led the men of the Nigerian Police Force to the place. We didn’t know he would return to us; he himself didn’t think he would survive. I know he always felt that he might not live to see the next day. He was always prepared to die. He thought he would be killed. I remember he had a gun beside his bed. He felt at any minute, people would come into the house to assassinate him. I believe that my mother’s prayers spared his life.

How did he die?

He died of natural causes at the age of 65. He was hypertensive. He died in his sleep. He sat in front of his house one evening, drinking wine when he passed away. The people around didn’t know he was dead as they kept greeting him.

How did you receive the news?

I was shocked and totally devastated. I never expected it. I was married at the time with three children. I don’t think I have recovered from his death.

What was the most important advice he gave you?

He always said better the devil you know than the angel you don’t.

Would you say his name opens doors for you?

I doubt it; because we had a protected upbringing. He kept his family on a low profile. For me in particular, I don’t think I have experienced a situation where I had to use his name to get something. Moreover, I got married at a young age – 22. I have never been exposed, in the sense that I have never been in a situation where I used his name to get something.

How did he react when you told him you wanted to marry?

He was not happy at all. I was his favourite child. In fact, he kept thinking my husband would not show up for the engagement. He gave them very strict conditions.

What did he think about your husband the first time they met?

He didn’t like him; they didn’t get on well together. My father was very suspicious of him. Eventually, after we got married, they became friendlier. In fact, they became close before he died.

What fond memories do you have of him?

I still love the times he went on holiday with me and my children. They were wonderful experiences – a privileged time.

Was he an overprotective father?

Yes, he was.

How do you feel that he was the country’s first indigenous Inspector-General of Police?

I am very proud of him, but I know he deserved it because of his nature. He was extremely courageous, meticulous, disciplined and well trained. He was trained in policing at the highest level. He went to the police college in Coventry for many years. His appointment was on merits. I am also proud of the fact that he was a good Christian.

Do people show you love and respect when they realise that you are his daughter?

Yes, I am always shown love. People introduce me as Chief Rotimi William’s wife and the daughter of the first indigenous inspector-general of police. Everybody respects him. He didn’t have any scandal. He died with a clean record. We are grateful to him for that.

What were the challenges he faced?

I think the change over from meritocracy to tribalism in politics and government was his greatest challenge. That was a big challenge for him. It didn’t help with the police force – the unit is meant to be neutral. It is not easy to maintain peace in an environment that is heavily polarised, but he did well. I think that was his greatest challenge.

What was his motivation?

I believe it was his faith; he was an extremely devoted Catholic. He was religious and that was his strength. My mother was also very prayerful.

How did he like to relax?

He liked to relax with friends. He also enjoyed drinking beer and wine. He loved to engage in sports, swim and travel. He read widely.

What was his idea of discipline?

I don’t think we got disciplined a lot. We all had a strict upbringing and we hardly misbehaved.

What were his other hobbies?

He loved to take pictures.

How did he keep himself busy after retirement?

He got involved with church activities, chieftaincy titles and other things.

What was his best food?

He liked fish stew. He didn’t like rice.

How did he like to dress?

He always dressed corporately.

How does your family remember him annually?

We don’t do it on an annual basis. But 30 years after his death, we threw a big celebration for him. He is regularly celebrated in Cross Rivers State. Even the police headquarters in Abuja is named after him.

Was any of his children in the Force?

Yes, but not in the general force. My eldest sister was in the security services but she has retired.

What would have been his thoughts regarding the state of the Force today?

He would have been disappointed. I think they are trying to clean things up, but the image of the police in the eye of the public is not a good one. People don’t see the work of the police because their image has been tarnished. But they are working.

Did his family celebrate his post-humous centennial birthday?

Only two of us are left, apart from his grand and great grandchildren. But I am thinking we would do something for his grand and great-grandchildren.

The Force Headquarters in Abuja is named after him. Would you say that is enough honour considering his vision and sacrifices for the Force?

I think it is for the police to look critically at the values of the Nigerian Police Force. They should compare the Force in the past and now and promote their core values.

Would you say the level of policing in the country today equates your father’s goals for the Force?

To be honest, I think the Force is doing well. Unfortunately, because of the high level of corruption, their effort is being tarnished. They can improve though.

What landmark achievements did your father make while he was IG?

I remember that he started mobile police – a branch of the Force armed and ready to fight as soldiers. The Force had to deal with violence, unrest and wars. He also brought in the use of dogs, and incorporated females into it. Many of the things taken for granted today, regarding the Force, he started them to deal with the change for a new Nigeria we know today.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]