I never wooed my wife — Kayode (Bois Olorun)
A member of gospel music band, Bois Olorun, Kayode Adeyemo, and his wife, Tonia, speak with TOFARATI IGE about their marriage

How did you meet your spouse?

Kayode: She used to be a very distant friend back then. Later on, we became friends, and got even closer. We didn’t discuss anything like marriage, or love; we were just friends. At some point, we became so close to the extent that we couldn’t do without talking to each other every day. I believe that the best person you can marry is your best friend. A surprising part of our love story is that I never wooed her. It was God ordained; we found ourselves in love and God crowned it.

What were the qualities that attracted you to your spouse?

Kayode: Even though she wasn’t 100 per cent what I had in mind, God came to me from another angle. I would have loved to go for a darker girl, but my wife is fair-skinned. She is very friendly and warm, which is another thing I like so much about her. She is also very clean, and sometimes, it causes me stress. She always wants things to be squeaky clean, and I’m still learning to cope with that. On the other hand, I wouldn’t appreciate a dirty wife. My wife is also a singer.

Tonia: He is a very cool, calm and collected person. He is a focused person and he gives me no trouble.

How did you propose?

Kayode: Some guys go on their knees when they want to propose to a girl, but I didn’t do that. I was ill then, so she came to spend the night with me. While she slept, I slipped a ring on her third finger without her knowing. When she woke up the next day, she didn’t immediately notice the ring. It was much later before she realised that there was a ring on her finger. She looked at me and asked how the ring got on her finger, and I said, “You will marry me and this is my proposal.”

When you first got married, what were the things you found difficult to adjust to as a married couple?

Kayode: It has to do with food. I don’t eat a lot, I only take drinks and I am good to go. However, when I got married, my wife would go through a lot of stress to prepare food for me, but I would end up eating very little quantity. That used to make her feel bad, but she understands me better now and I’m trying to eat more.

Tonia: It wasn’t really easy adjusting to life as a married woman. However, as time went on, I was able to adjust.

Can you recall the first major disagreement that you had?

Kayode: That was when she was pregnant with our first child. Immediately she knew she was pregnant, she wanted to tell her dad because they are very close. I told her not to tell him at that time, and she didn’t do it in my presence, but I know she would have done it when I was not there.

Tonia: It was over my jewellry. I love putting on bogus jewellry, but my husband does not like it. I used to wear a lot of jewellry before getting married because my dad likes it too. However, I had noticed that my husband didn’t like it when we were dating, so I had to drop it. I still wear them whenever my husband is not around though.

When you have disagreements over the years, how do you settle them?

Kayode: We have had disagreements and we usually resolve them. Recently, I have been cautioning myself not to be a carnal man, but to have a spiritual attitude. Anytime we have disagreements, I just keep quiet because arguing with a woman is akin to when one is arrested by the police; whatever you say will be used against you. I always try to calm her down. Now, we resolve issues almost immediately.

You’ve been married for about six years. How would you describe the journey so far?

Kayode: The journey has been worthwhile, and I have never regretted getting married to her. She is the best person I could have gotten married to. I love our relationship, and it has been a very good home with our children, and even extended family.

Tonia: We have been able to weather the storms with prayer and understanding. My husband loves me, and I love everything about him too. Whenever we have problems, we know how to sort things out and move on. If I am not okay with anything, I usually take it to God in prayers. I don’t joke with prayer and that’s what has been keeping me and keeping the fire of our love burning. We forgive each other quickly. Whenever we disagree, he usually calms me down.

What are the major lessons you have learnt in marriage?

Kayode: I have learnt love and friendship. The love in marriage is not the type that is practised on the street. In marriage, even when your partner offends you, you have to keep on loving them. I have also learnt trust. If you trust your partner, you would not be swept away by whatever you hear outside, because there are lots of lies on the streets. My wife is a stylist and she works with men; sometimes, she even travels with her male colleagues. There are also times that I would travel for ministrations and she would not be around me. Through it all, the word of God has been our foundation. I have trained myself to trust and love her. I always pray to God for wisdom, because in marriage, the most important thing you need is wisdom.

Tonia: You need to be patient, understanding and forgiving. Without those three qualities, I don’t think anybody can succeed in marriage.

What are some of the challenges you have faced in marriage?

Kayode: Anytime we call on God to fight our battles, He always answers us. There was a time my wife had some health challenges and it was so serious that she was in the hospital for months and underwent major surgery twice. We pray whenever we have challenges and God has been faithful to us.

Tonia: As a mother, there have been a lot of changes in my life. There are also some things I cannot do because of my status as a wife and mother.

Do you have any special names for each other?

Kayode: I call her Ewa, which means beauty. Many people don’t even know that that’s not her real name because that’s what I call her every time. As a result of that, every other person also calls her Ewa. On her part, she calls me Ade, meaning crown.

How do you celebrate special occasions?

Kayode: I used to be a banker and my schedule was very tight. While on that job, it was very difficult for me to have time for my family. But now that I do music full time, we have more time for each other.

Tonia: He usually surprises me on special occasions like my birthdays, and our wedding anniversaries. He also takes me out and we seize the opportunity to talk about our future. Sometimes, he buys me gifts.

What would you say is the most memorable event that has happened in your marriage?

Kayode: The most memorable moments of our marriage are the times when my wife gave birth to our kids. I am always happy whenever I see my wife and children for the first time.

Tonia: Everyday is special for me in my marriage.

How do you handle your admirers?

Tonia: Even when we were dating, we didn’t really focus on admirers. People like that will come and go. I try to talk to some of them and let them know my stand. I have always known my husband as a faithful man right from when we were dating. We know deep inside us that nothing can move or shake us.

What advice do you have for young couples?

Kayode: I will tell them to marry their best friends. Marriage has different sides such as the spiritual, physical, romantic, family, and financial. If you understand one another, you will be able to get along better. It doesn’t mean that you wouldn’t quarrel, but it would be easier to resolve issues.

Tonia: There is no perfect person out there. Both the man and woman are coming from different families and cultures, so they need to understand each other. You also need to be patient, especially for the woman. What has really helped me so far is prayer and I don’t joke with it because that is the only weapon I have. I am also always aware of our wedding vows, so that if I am going through hard times, or if he offends me, I will think of the fact that he is the one I love. I chose him, and I’m not going anywhere. Young couples should also have role models; people they look up to in life who have good marriages.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]