When your partner is a workaholic
Being married to a workaholic can be frustrating for you, because he or she may not invest as much time in your relationship as you want. Here are a few tips that will help you cope with a workaholic partner

Avoid nagging

According to www.futurescopes.com, the first step in coping with a workaholic partner is to avoid nagging them about their character or how neglected you feel because he or she is so attached to his or her jobs. It will do nothing to solve the situation. Rather, you should use an objective tone to tell them about the things they missed by working late or bringing back work from the office. You could also share how you and the kids felt their absence on an important occasion at their school or a social event.

Don’t encourage your spouse’s workaholism

Avoid putting up attitudes that may encourage your partner’s obsession with work. If you have the habit of delaying the family dinner till your partner finishes with his or her PowerPoint presentation or keeping up the children beyond their bedtime, so that they can wish their mum or dad good night after they return home, you should stop it. Inasmuch as you try to fit in your partner’s work schedule, remember that it will never be enough. Not only will you keep disrupting your family’s routine, you will be actually encouraging your partner’s need or desire to work late.

Learn about your partner’s job

Once you have a better understanding of the kind of job your partner does, it may help you accept their limitations and obligations better. People, who are engaged in emergency services like fire-fighting, ambulance drivers/attendants, critical care personnel and law enforces, cannot help being summoned to work at odd hours and on-call days. Visit your partner’s place of work when it is convenient, attend office parties with them and get to know his or her employees, boss and colleagues. If you learn about your partner’s work environment, it will enable you to understand or even take pride in his or her nature of work.

Develop mutual interests

Workaholics often feel a compulsion to be busy even when there is no need to do so from their employer or organisation. If you recognise this tendency in your partner, try to find hobbies which will allow you two spend more time together without your partner feeling that he or she is wasting time. It may be something as involved as rearranging the house or as simple as taking a walk within the neighbourhood.You can also think about creative things that you both will enjoy doing.

Prioritise social events

This may be a bit difficult to achieve, but when your partner prefers working late at night to attending social events with you, then you need to stand your ground. If you have about three get-togethers, scheduled every weekend, decide which one is really important to you both and ask your partner to attend them with you. This way, he or she will not feel pressurised to leave his or her work and at the same time you will have your partner accompany you to the event which is most important to you.

Set boundaries

Once you set boundaries about the things you will accept and the things you will not, it will be easier to choose priorities. For instance, you can designate Saturday night as a tech-free night when neither of you will take calls nor sit with the laptop. However, it is better that you start out with short-term plans and be open to re-assessing them with changing situations and priorities.

Bring back the focus on yourself

While you may be trying to cope with your partner’s workaholism, don’t forget to take care of yourself. Leave your spouse at home with their work and go see a movie with a friend or your kids if you have any. Do things you enjoy and let your partner experience the consequences of his or her workaholism once in a while.

Talk to someone

If you feel that your partner’s addiction to work is affecting your relationship, then you should speak to someone who is more experienced than you or you should consider getting help from a professional counsellor. This will not only help you to cope with a workaholic partner, but even help your partner to achieve a better balance between work and family

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]