I quit partying, clubbing when I became a father — Christian Chukwu
A former coach of the Super Eagles, Christian Chukwu, shares his fatherhood experience with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

What do you enjoy most about being a father?

I enjoy doing my duty as a father; providing for my children, paying their school fees, buying clothes for them, feeding and giving them shelter. I think a father’s role in the life of his children is irreplaceable. Providing for my children gives me inner peace and it makes me happy.

What were the things that prepared you for fatherhood?

A lot of things prepared me for fatherhood. My father played a big role in preparing me for fatherhood. I still remember watching how he reacted to issues. I admired the way he handled situations. I always say that fatherhood is one of the most exciting experiences you will ever likely go through – as well as one of the most terrifying. Fatherhood births a whole new lifestyle for you. It is important to prepare for the changes that come with being a father. A father must be psychologically and physically prepared to ensure his children get the best possible upbringing.

What was your greatest fear before you became a father?

I don’t think I had any fear; I was in fact happy to become a father. I looked forward to raising my own children.

How did you feel when you held your child for the first time?

My heart was filled with joy. Though I was not around when my wife put to bed, but immediately I got home, I cuddled my baby girl and gave my wife a kiss. Giving birth to a child is not an easy task. I know all what she faced during pregnancy. I was extremely happy to see our baby.

When did you become a father?

I got married at the age of 31. I became a father a year after.

What values did learn from your father which your children are now imbibing?

My father taught me how to respect elders. He also taught me to be quick to hear and speak less. My father taught me how to speak words of wisdom. My father taught me early the importance of being at peace with God. This I have passed unto my children. I remain eternally grateful to God for making me a father. God has been with me and raising my kids has never been a thing of regret.

How do you discipline your children when they misbehave?

I talk to them; I correct them verbally. I don’t believe in beating a child, I can’t remember when last I beat my children. I believe there are other ways to correct a child. Beating is not the solution. Whenever my children misbehave, I deny them of something they like. I make them see reasons why they should not repeat the same mistake.

What do you think is the secret to raising good children?

As a father, one has to be an honest man. You have to walk your talk and lead by example. Teach your kids the way of the Lord and when they grow up they will never depart from it. Teach them the virtue of hard work. I always advise my children to follow honest, dynamic, and character-driven friends who have big dreams for themselves.

What has been your greatest challenge as a father?

I think giving my children the best; I’m the type of father that wants the best for his children. I could go the extra mile to give them the best.

What lessons has fatherhood taught you?

Fatherhood has taught me to be patient. On a lighter note, it has also calmed me down. I used to go to clubs and parties, but when I became a fatherhood, I realised I have to spend time with my children. On a serious note, as a father, you learn every day. One of the worst things a parent can experience is to miss bonding with their kids in their childhood. You need to be there to watch them grow. They make you laugh, cry, angry and do things that get you scared.

What special gifts have you given your children?

I try to make their birthdays a special moment for them. On their birthdays, I buy them beautiful gifts. I organise a get-together and call some of their friends.

How have you been able to teach them the essentials of good upbringing?

To raise godly children, one must be honest and God-fearing. My children see me as their role model. I try to be a perfect role model to them. A man must have time for his family no matter what he does. We are all managers in one way or the other. The ability to manage one’s time properly so that no aspect of one’s life suffers is what makes a man.

Are there things you would have loved to do differently as a father?

I don’t think there is anything I would have loved to do differently as a father. But I guess if I had more money in the past, I would have given my children the best of the best. I don’t joke with my children; I could sacrifice anything to ensure my children receive the best of what they desire.

What are the career choices of your children?

I have four children – my first daughter is a lawyer, my second son is an engineer, my third daughter is studying economics and my fourth son is studying mechanical engineering.

How do you feel that none of your children is following in your career path?

I am happy they have all chosen to follow their passion. It would be wrong for any father to influence the career choices of his children. I would have loved one of them to follow my professional path, but I am happy with their career choices.

How are you able to balance your career and fatherhood?

It is a tough task but it is something that has to be done whether one likes it or not. All one has to ensure is that no area in one’s life suffers for the other.

How do you appreciate your wife?

I call her often whenever I’m not at home. I appreciate her in a lot of ways. She is a beautiful woman. I buy her many gifts. I frequently surprise her with gifts because she loves surprises. I try to make her birthday a memorable moment. I love her as a wife and the mother of my children. She has played a major role in our children’s lives. Whenever I’m not home, she stands in for me. It is important for a husband to respect and appreciate his wife. Women sacrifice a lot too for their husband and kids. The most important thing in a family is love. One should transfer that (love) to one’s wife and children. The only way you can show your children that you love them is to show love to their mother. If you don’t show love to their mother, they won’t believe that you love them.

What is your advice to men on how to be responsible fathers?

A father’s role is an important one because, aside from providing a safe home, he must carry out the duties of fatherhood diligently. That includes support, guidance and encouragement in winning life’s battles. My advice to fathers is that they should stay focused, patient and prayerful. They should speak good words into the lives of their children. They should constantly talk to God about their children. Prayer is important and they should never curse their children. I believe in prayers.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]