When your partner is of a different faith
Dating someone who does not share your religious beliefs can be tough. Here are a few tips on how to maintain a love relationship with a partner who practices a religion that is dissimilar to yours

Learn

According to www.keen.com, try to learn about your partner’s faith, but it doesn’t mean you will have to change your views. It is a way of looking at things from a different perspective.

Find your common ground

If you are of a different denomination but of the same faith, it could to a lot easier to reach an agreement. But if your personal beliefs are very different, finding a common ground may be difficult. It is very important to discuss with your partner about the basic principles of your separate beliefs and find out what you have in common.

Discuss the importance of your beliefs

Talk about what you both find important about your personal beliefs, you might be surprised to discover some important values and facts that you were not previously aware of. Talking with your partner about what you find essential about their religious beliefs is a good way to figure out what’s most important to you both.

Discuss the differences in your spiritual beliefs

Being together is not always about agreeing on everything or understanding each other’s views. Respecting your partner’s views even if you don’t agree with their religion is a crucial part of maintaining your relationship. Always remember that finding love means discovering all the ways in which you and your partner are different, and discovering how to blend the best parts of yourselves to create something unique.

Talk to someone you can trust

If your different beliefs constantly cause argument between you two, consider seeking the advice of a neutral third party. A religious leader or relationship counsellor can offer insights on how you can learn to appreciate and respect each other’s beliefs.

Respect your differences

As a couple, create a list of what you have in common and learn how to respect both your religions. For instance, if you are a Muslim and your partner is a Christian, plan to celebrate both Eid Al-Fitr and Christmas or take turns to celebrate your religious holidays every year.

Don’t try to convert them

Your partner’s spiritual beliefs is as important to them as yours is to you. Inasmuch as you wish that your partner would share your views, don’t try to convert them to your religion. Allow them to decide on their own.

Keep an open mind

Although it could be difficult, but always keep an open mind about your partner’s religion even if you don’t understand why they feel or do the way they do. Accept that they have the right to their opinions and beliefs.

Support your partner

It can be very challenging if your family dislikes your partner’s faith, but if you want your relationship to last then you should always support your partner and their spiritual beliefs. Having a partner whose faith is different from yours can be challenging but it can also enrich your life.

Do not compromise your beliefs or values.

In an effort to maintain peace in your relationship, do not give up your values and beliefs. Remain strong and unwavering in your commitment to the truths you believe in and allow your partner do the same. For example, if you belong to a religion that forbids alcohol consumption but your partner has a different belief, don’t allow it affect your faith.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]