If a father is a thief, his kids ’ll emulate him — Kujore
Popular juju singer, Dayo Kujore, shares his fatherhood experience with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood is like a template or model for children to emulate. A father should be a good example to his children. It connotes a wide range of responsibilities, such as spiritual and moral leadership. A father is a mirror to a child. It is an important role in society because it determines the quality of the youth we have. If a father is a thief, you can be sure that his children would emulate him. If a father smokes weed, the child may think smoking weed is the right thing to do. That is why fathers must be careful of their conduct.

What age did you become a father?

I was very young when I became a father. I became a father when I was 28 years old. Then, I was still an up-and-coming artiste, struggling to gain popularity in Lagos.

How did you feel holding your first child?

I was with my wife at the hospital. While she was in labour at the hospital, I could not stand her yells so I stayed outside. I was praying that all would end well and God answered the prayers. When I held my child, I was delighted and full of emotions. The opportunity to make a child from my loins made me feel fulfilled. The fact that she looks just like me is a miracle that I thank God for.

I was living in a one-room apartment then and you can imagine how it was bringing a new child into the place. In those days, having one-room apartment to live in Lagos was a kind of achievement. You know I hail from a farm settlement near Abeokuta, Ogun State. So, for me to come to Lagos and be able to afford an apartment, get married and have a child in the city was a sort of achievement. Even though it was one room, we were living in joy and harmony. I gave the child ‘Omowunmi’ meaning that I love children.

How did you fend for your family?

I was an instrumentalist working with a musician then. I was making some money at the time enough to take care of myself and family. Life was not as hard as it is now. Foodstuffs were cheap. If I gave my wife 20 pounds then to buy things in the market, she would return with varieties of food.

Baby food and materials were quite cheap. It was a modest lifestyle but I enjoyed it because I was able to meet the basic needs of my newborn. Even if I had four children in that small room, whatever I earned then was enough to take care of them. I didn’t earn much but the little I earned had value.

What fascinates you about fatherhood?

When I had my first daughter, I began to appreciate life more. She had her own bed. When she cried at night and I wanted to allow my wife enjoy her sleep, I would place the child on my chest and pat her till she slept off. When she slept off, I would then place her on her bed. There was a stomach ache common with children. The Yoruba call it “inuwo.” When my child had it, I knew the best way to handle it was to make her sleep on her stomach to ease her of the pains.

Almost every night, my child slept on my chest. My wife was pretty young and she knew little about weaning a newborn so I had to help her. There is nothing I don’t know about taking care of a child now because aside from playing a fatherly role, I assisted my wife with her roles. Our parents came occasionally but because it was a one-room apartment, they left the same day. They came in the morning and by dusk, they had gone.

Tell us about your father and the values you imbibed from him.

My father was a good man. I am the last child and enjoyed many things. I didn’t get to know my father much because I lost him when I was little. But I still remember that the little time we spent together was fun-filled because he took great care of me. He ensured that I got good education. I appreciate him for that.

How did you combine fatherhood with your music career?

It was quite easy for me. I usually woke up early to prepare my children for school. As a juju musician, I had the luxury of time on weekdays. I usually went out to perform on weekends so I had all the time for my children. My schedule as a musician was flexible; this meant that I saw my children when they went to school and I was always at whenever they returned from school.

What kind of father are you at home?

I have a cordial relationship with my children. I am grateful to God for the opportunity to provide for their needs. They are successful in their chosen careers and live within and outside Nigeria. I am fortunate to have obedient children.

How do you discipline your children?

Right from the time my daughter was crawling and struggling to walk, she understood my body language. I didn’t need to speak before she understood my instruction. If I blinked, she knew what I meant. This bond of communication is important. I never caned my children because my father didn’t use the cane on me as a child. Things have changed these days and there are better ways to discipline a child than spanking or caning him or her. Caning a child does not really instill wisdom in such a child. In fact, it is counterproductive. If a child annoyed me, frowning at him or her was enough to caution the child.

What lessons do you want your kids to take from you as they move through life?

Humility is an essential Christian attribute. Obedience to God is also very important. If a child is in Christ, he won’t make mistakes. This is what I teach them to observe. I also enjoin my children to be prayerful because life is beyond hard work and talent. My father was a reverend while my mother played important roles in the church.

What important gift did your wife or children give you in appreciation of your fatherly role?

Now that I have advanced in age, they take care of me and ensure that I get adequate care. They call me constantly to show concern.

Do you agree that fathers are to provide for the home while mothers essentially take care of the home?

My opinion on this may not be accepted by many. But if you know Yoruba well, you would understand that in our custom, it is the man who should play the dominant role. This role includes providing, especially financially, for the home. I have never for once asked my wife to provide money for food. That is the role of the man. Every man must strive to be the god of his home. The father must take care of everything.

Have you cooked at home before?

I have cooked at home many times. I love assisting my wife. Even when I travelled out of Nigeria for musical performances, I usually helped my wife in the kitchen.

Hip-hop has seemingly overshadowed juju. How are you coping with this change?

I disagree that hip-hop has overshadowed juju. Juju still has many fans although it appears that hip-hop is the in-thing. Also, contrary to the opinions of some people, I still make music and I get positive reactions from people. I get invites to play at different gatherings every weekend. If people don’t like juju, you won’t be getting that kind of attention. King Sunny Ade still plays. Will you say that KSA has lost his fans or that he is no longer popular? Many Nigerians at home and in the Diaspora still enjoy his music. At a point, I mixed hip-hop with juju. Juju is too unique to lose its style. I laugh when people say Dayo Kujore is not in vogue. I still have many fans.

Is any of your children taking after you?

Some of them have established themselves. I don’t believe in choosing a career for my children. I simply let them do what they want to do. When I saw one of my children sing for the first time in public, I was amazed. I knew it was the right thing for him to do. It came to him naturally. I knew God gave him the gift.

What was the most difficult part of your childhood?

Young musicians these days are fortunate. During the time I was struggling to be relevant in the music industry, we never had the opportunity to borrow musical instruments. There was no musical software to make beats and mix songs. To play music then, you must go and buy musical instruments. These days, people that cannot play any instrument call themselves musicians. It was quite hard then for me to get instruments and other things. Then, I bought the records of other great musicians. I listened to them and made sure mine was a bit different. I hate to copy. I like to be unique and that made me stand out.

What relationship advice do you give your children?

I used to tell my male children about women and also lecture my female children about men. It is important to know the nature of these sexes as they will encounter good and bad men and women in life.

I usually tell my female children not to be slack with boys because they would take advantage of them. Women are emotional and men may want to use this against them. I tell my daughters to be careful of useless men. If a useless man has sex with a lady, he will tell his colleagues about it to mock her. My children are well educated, live in different countries and are exposed. I give them the freedom to choose, learn from their mistakes and be wise enough to understand that some experiences can be acquired by learning from other people’s mistakes. I advise them to take their time before saying, “Yes, I do.” That word is simple but it makes a lot of difference in one’s life.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]