Commitment is more important than love, money in marriage — Seyi Allen
Singer Azeezat has been married to her producer and artiste manager husband, Seyi Allen, for 16 years. They share their story with TOFARATI IGE

how did you meet your spouse?

Azeezat: We met at a programme called Girls Night Out. I was one of the contestants for the talent hunt that took place at the concert and he was one of the judges. I didn’t win the competition but he came to me later and gave me his card. He said I should get in touch with him. We started working together and he basically developed my talent. He has had a huge impact on my career because I was quite inexperienced at the time we met.

What attracted you to each other?

Seyi: I was attracted by her voice, humility and her comportment.

Azeezat: His honesty. The fact that he always told me the truth about everything that was beneficial to me, even if it wouldn’t pay for him. All he did made me understand that he really cared about my future. Life has taught me to value the people who value me. As of the time we met, we were both in relationships, and I was quite close to his girlfriend then. However, his relationship ended when his then girlfriend passed away, while my relationship had ended earlier. As time went on, we became each other’s best friend.

How did he propose to you?

Azeezat: At that time, he was ready to get married. He said he looked around and I was the only one around that he knew well; so, he decided to stick with me (laughs). On the day that he proposed, we were in the studio. When I got there, he kept insisting that I should go into the recording booth. When I went in there, there was a piece of paper taped to the glass partition between the booth and the control room. The paper read, “How about a Valentine?” I screamed when I saw it, and that was it.

Did you have any uneasy feelings about your manager being your husband at that time?

Azeezat: Initially, I wasn’t comfortable with it. I felt it would be awkward that my boss in the business world is also my boss at home. My parents had broken up years earlier and I was in a phase where I had doubts about the ‘sacredness’ of relationships. Eventually, I got over that feeling. I committed everything to God.

How easy was it for you to graduate from being single to married?

Seyi: We needed to understand each other. I made her know that I would also have to work with other clients, and I would have to spend time with them as well. I am at liberty to work with anybody.

Azeezat: After we got married, I continued living like a spinster for some time in the sense that I was going for weeklong competitions or other entertainment and educational programmes. My husband, being someone in the industry, was understanding and he allowed me to soar. He didn’t try to hold me down at all.

What was the first major misunderstanding you had in your marriage?

Azeezat: It is well known that marriage is the coming together of two people from different backgrounds, so it is expected that we would learn things from each other. My husband taught me how to forgive, because I used to have a lot of pent up anger in me. There were times that I threatened to leave the marriage. Sometimes, I would pack my bags and act like I was ready to go back to my parents’ house. As a lady, I love being begged.

How do you settle misunderstandings?

Seyi: Silence helps a lot. It is when you’re quiet that God speaks to you. And it’s also the time to ask him questions and you’ll get a lot of answers. He always directs us to take the right steps at the right times.

Azeezat: God is in charge of our marriage and He is the one who guides us accordingly.

What has kept your marriage going all these years?

Azeezat: I will also credit this to God, and to the fact that we genuinely love each other. There were times that we were both got tired of the marriage. But we always found ways to get over the storms.

Is there any distinction between your relationships as working partners and a married couple?

Seyi: It was strictly about work when we first started our relationship. Before our marriage, we had a meeting and we decided that we would always keep the two sides of our relationship apart. Everybody knows that when we are at home, she is my wife. But out there on the field, she is my artiste. Sometimes those lines get blurred. Even whenever we have business arguments, we keep it away from our home. Not that we have forgotten it, but we would continue whenever we are in the office.

Azeezat: It was a bit difficult making that distinction. But we came to an understanding that work would be our number one priority, but we would never sacrifice our marriage for it. In the early days of our marriage, we had business arguments that affected our personal lives. And I think that’s part of what led to the nosedive of my career. So we have tried to make that separation of roles as much as possible. For example, I have a private instant messaging app which I use in communicating with my husband on the phone, and whenever I want to discuss business ideas, I would do that with another app. We have been able to make things flow over the years.

What was the reaction of your families to the marriage?

Azeezat: I come from a deeply Muslim home, and my husband’s family, staunch members of the Anglican Church. His family didn’t have any issues with our marriage. It was my family that I needed to convince. It was quite tough for my mother and she initially said she would have nothing to do with the marriage. But we were able to make her see our reason and get her on our side. Some people also said that I got married at the wrong time in my career. But I can confidently say I’ve had a good marriage. God has been faithful and He has always kept His covenant with our marriage.

What challenges have you faced over the years?

Seyi: I have learnt to be patient and not to judge too quickly. I have settled it in my mind that we would weather whatever storms that come our way by the grace of God, so, I do not worry at all.

Azeezat: There has been nothing extraordinary; just the normal quarrels that come up from time to time.

You once said you were having issues with your children’s upbringing because of your different backgrounds. Have you been able to resolve that?

Azeezat: We are actually still dealing with that. In fact, it has become our cross and we have to carry it. We respect each other’s opinions and have learnt to make compromises.

How do you keep your love burning?

Azeezat: By praying and listening. Men aren’t so expressive about their feelings, but the Holy Spirit helps me to read his mind and mood. We don’t celebrate events like anniversaries and Valentine’s Day.

What advice would you give a couple about to get married?

Seyi: Commitment is more important than love and money. Love or money alone wouldn’t hold your marriage.

Azeezat: You should learn to pray together. Keep away from whisperings and innuendoes by third parties in your marriage. For the men, don’t spend too much trying to impress her. Take care of her but don’t always spoil her with gifts. And for the women, don’t take him for granted.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]