Women age fast when left with domestic chores alone—Yemi Shodimu
Popular actor and television presenter, Mr. Yemi Shodimu, shares his fatherhood journey with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

what were the things that prepared you for fatherhood?

My father did a lot in that area; he prepared me for fatherhood. Motherhood also prepared me for fatherhood. This is because I spent a part of my growing-up years with my grandmother. She was a superman, not a superwoman – that prepared me for fatherhood. She affected my life positively.

What fear did you nurse before you became a father?

I don’t think I nursed any fear before I became a father; instead, I looked forward to being a father. I knew I would become a father someday. I love children, and I knew that I had to work on being a good father to my children. As a father, you have to work on being a role model to your children. Fatherhood is a learning process; I try to be the best father to my children.

How old were you when you became a father?

I think I was in my early twenties. Sometimes I ask myself if I jumped into the role of fatherhood too early. But when I look at my children, I tell myself it happened at the right time.

How did you feel when you held your child for the first time?

I felt overwhelmed with joy; it was a heavenly feeling. I felt so excited to see my child. It feels like you created something. Imagine having waited for nine months to get something. And from that particular moment, a lot is expected from you as a father. That child grows up looking up to you for guidance. Your child’s smile last as long as you want it to. Being a father is definitely exciting.

When your children were young, were there any activities you took on which ordinarily would be regarded as their mother’s duties?

The truth is that I have always been a family man, and I believe in shared responsibilities. I don’t believe a woman should be overburdened with home chores; a father is supposed to help. It is exciting to see a woman relax while a man does house chores. A woman ages faster when she is left to do house chores alone while a man relaxes in front of the television with a newspaper. I am not one to be pushed to do domestic chores. Helping a woman do home chores makes her happy. I also don’t get excited about having home help, although it can become inevitable in some situations. I have seen many home helps treated badly. I cannot stand seeing a home help being maltreated. I would only accept to employ a home help if she would be treated like a daughter.

Do you cook for your family?

Before I got married; I practically lived in the kitchen. I cooked for myself. But a woman would not allow a man cook meals when she is around. Women see the kitchen as their terrain. I don’t object when I am not allowed to enter the kitchen.

How do you discipline your children whenever they err?

I talk to them. I can’t remember the last time I raised my hand to beat my children. I am happy to say that my children are well behaved. I consider myself blessed. My children don’t like to get me upset; this is not to say they don’t get me upset once in a while. However, I don’t beat them. I would rather talk to them or withdraw one or two privileges. I know about the saying: spare the rod, spoil the child. But I don’t use a rod on my children. It is not my discipline style.

What values did you learn from your father which you have passed on to your children?

Kindness comes to mind and being considerate. My father was generous and extremely caring. Also, being focused is another value I imbibed from my father. My father always had his goals outlined.

What has been your greatest challenge as a father?

The attempt to give your family a good life takes a lot from you; your financial ability is tested. It has been a challenge but God has been kind to me. A continuous attempt on my part to shield my family from evil influences also takes a lot from me. I am constantly thinking about my children’s safety.

What lessons has fatherhood taught you?

As a father you have to be responsible – that area is important. Your role within the society is also important. When some people compare my children with other children, they wonder what magic one used to keep them focused. You never stop being a father. I recently attended the 80th birthday of a man; I saw how his children flocked around him. It was obvious he raised godly children. Training children involves a lot of work, time and dedication.

What special gifts have your given your children?

I believe education and good morals – they would prepare them for the future.

How have you been able to bring them up well?

I do it through my act, words, relationship with people and their mother. And also the little bits I do within the society. It takes a lot from me, but I don’t mind. I love to see my children hold their heads up high as they walk. I also teach them to be content. I don’t want to see them peeping into our neighbour’s compound.

Are there things you would have loved to do differently as a father?

I think I am satisfied with all I have achieved, but I probably would create a little more time for my family. I have a job which is demanding. I would love to spend a little more time with my family.

How are you able to balance your career and being a father?

I try to manage all areas. I have my hands full with a lot of things – I am an actor, master of ceremonies, TV and radio presenter. I try to manage all areas; I keep my eye on the ball.

Though you are a talented, actor, it seems you are no longer interested in the trade having found a new love in politics. What is your take on this?

No, acting is my first love and it will always be my first love. I am not into politics. I am only interested in things that happen around me, at least for now. I don’t ignore things happening around me. I can’t stand seeing people oppressed. I always say good people must peep into politics and governance or else we will leave it in the wrong hands – people who would determine how we should live our lives. However, I am not actively into politics, I am just peeing into it. Where I need to scream, I do that. As for acting, I cannot quit. I just returned from a filming location. In fact, I plan to do a lot more.

With the way the nation’s movie industry is at the moment, would you say it has reached its El Dorado?

No, not yet. It can get a lot better and it will get better. There are innovations coming up. It would reach its El Dorado.

As a respected stage actor, when should your fans expect you back on stage?

I want them to expect me back anytime soon.

Do you plan to rule your state someday?

Let me get back into politics first then I’ll be able to answer that question. It is a state I believe has a lot of potential.

How do you appreciate your wife?

I try to give her surprises and also spend time with her. She is a woman that is beautiful at heart, and I strive to appreciate her always. She is God-fearing and I support her. I work on making her happy all the time.

Is any of your children showing interest in your career?

Yes, one of them is showing interest in acting. But my wife and I are watching and keeping our fingers crossed.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]