My father loves expensive cologne —Mike Ezekhome’s son
Ilugbekhai is one of the children of lawyer and human rights activist, Mike Ozekhome, SAN. He talks about his father’s legal practice with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

What was ​​ growing up like as Mike Ozekhome’s son?

​I grew up knowing my father as an extremely intelligent man. He is top-notch in whatever he does. He dresses smartly, he is a great orator, a courtroom maestro and a perfectionist. There was always an invincible target set for me to meet; it is reasonable that being the son of a man with such sterling qualities, there was an unspoken code of conduct to comply with and certain set values to meet up to. You could say I had to sit up and apply myself to whatever I did. In general, it was a great experience.

Was he strict while you were growing up?

​He was very strict. When it came to matters of discipline, my father didn’t care if he got anyone upset. ​He would use the whip as often as necessary. He is an ardent believer in the old saying — spare the rod, spoil the child. With him at home, everyone showed their best behaviour. None of us wanted to be on the receiving end.

Did his children attend expensive schools?

We went to good schools. That was the critical issue. Expensive may not necessarily translate to good all the time. But he did ensure that we went to the best schools to receive quality education.

While schooling, what were the things you couldn’t do as Ozekhome’s son?

​In primary and secondary school days, I did whatever I wanted to do. I mean, I was just a kid so I didn’t give much thought to being Mike Ozekhome’s son. I played when I had to play and that was frequently. But back home after school, you stayed home and behaved yourself else the whip could pay you a visit (laughs). In university, there was a little shift in my disposition. I became more conscious of my father’s role in society. I did my best to stay out of trouble. Cultism was a no-go area. Smoking was foreign. In a sense, you could say that there were certain things I stayed away from because of my father.

Some describe your father as a radical lawyer…

My father is a radical lawyer. But I must make it clear that being radical or radicalism is not a bad thing as may be erroneously perceived by some people. As a matter of fact, radical is a positive word. A radical person is one who advocates complete political or social reform; a radical person wants a positive change from the status quo. Take a look at our country today. How do we rank in world economies, among other countries? Where are the jobs for graduates? ​

​How can a country be blessed with so much natural resources and yet many of her citizens wallow in squalor and abject penury? It just does not make any sense. A change from this abnormal situation becomes imperative. ​ We should be glad of the radicalism of my father and other great Nigerians such as Femi Falana, Olisa Agbakoba, Clement Nwakwo and the late Gani Fawehinmi.

These individuals in their radicalism sacrificed a lot confronting social ills, fighting for the common man, speaking for the voiceless and eventually pushing the junta out of politics in 1999. Hence, whenever my father is described as a radical lawyer, I am proud of it. It simply emphasises the fact that his contribution to the Nigerian society is appreciated by all and sundry.

Did your father influence your career choice since you are also a lawyer?

​Yes and no. No doubt, the fact that my father is a lawyer made me to gravitate towards the profession. But did he ever come out to say expressly that I must study law or did he push me to read law? The answer to that is no. ​

​As a child, I always wanted to be a lawyer. It was a no-brainer. I admired my father’s wig and gown; the way he dressed when going to court. Those visuals were enough for me. It was either law or nothing. Studying law and becoming a lawyer came naturally to me.​

Do you get special privileges from people?

​No, by the special Grace of God, I plough the field, cultivate yam and lay the bed on my own.

What can you say about your father’s contributions to the country’s legal sector?

​I think his contributions are phenomenal. My father has worked assiduously and tirelessly all his life contributing to the development of Nigeria’s legal profession. He has handled ​​ notable cases that have impacted on the legal dynamics ​ of our beloved profession and the country. His being a SAN is a testimony of his achievements and contributions to the legal profession.

How did his family survive the period of his kidnap?

​No doubt, it was one of the most harrowing periods for us as a family. ​​As tough as the period was for us, it was wonderful to witness firsthand how much Nigerians love and cherish my father. The outpouring of love and goodwill messages from colleagues, friends, fans and well-wishers were overwhelming. ​Because of the show of love and support, coupled with prayers from Nigerians, we were able to deal with the physical and mental stress associated with the incident.

Nigerians prayed, fasted and kept vigil for his safe return. As a matter of fact, after his release from the kidnappers’ dungeon, he vowed, like ancient Macbeth, to “…doubly redouble strokes upon” his efforts to continue to be the voice of the voiceless and fight the cause of the common man. Till date, words cannot fully convey our gratitude to Nigerians for their show of support.

How is his relationship with his children?

​We all have a great and cordial relationship with our father. ​Although an extremely busy man, he still makes out time to travel on vacation with the family. Whenever time permits, and the family gets together, we have great moments together.

What values did he teach his children?

​We have learned a lot from our father. Our learning is not just by him telling us what values we ought to imbibe, but we see him lead his life by these values. Consistently, he has preached and demonstrated to us by his actions to be generous, the value of hard work and honesty; that a good name is better than wealth and need for a personal relationship with God.​

What profession would he have chosen if he were not a lawyer?

​If my father didn’t receive any education at all, he would have ended up as a farmer. As a kid growing up, he followed our grandmother to the farm and worked very hard on the farm. ​

​I believe he enjoyed farm work greatly and still has a secret craving for it.​ ​But with education, if I was to make a guess, he could have ended up as a doctor because of his passion to help and assist people. Another possibility is to be a lecturer. He is very intelligent and a great teacher. He would have excelled in the classroom.

What are his thoughts about Nigeria’s future?

​My father believes strongly in the unity of Nigeria. He also believes that there is an urgent need for Nigerians to sit down and discuss the country. How we can live together in an atmosphere of peace and how we can all benefit from our natural resources as opposed to one ethnicity having the lion’s share of everything.

To this extent, he has advocated for a restructuring that will accommodate equity and fairness. ​Having said that, he believes Nigeria will ultimately get better and be home for all.

What gadgets does he love?

​Well, how nicely can I put this? I think his most sophisticated gadgets are his cell phones. He is not too much into gadgets. I think part of the reason has to do with his busy schedule. Unless, an item enhances his ability to wade through his crazy daily schedule, you probably won’t catch him with such an item. ​Even if he was interested in them, he would not have the time to keep gadgets. In the past, he bought some IPads but I think my siblings ended up owning them.

How fashionable is he?

​Yes, he is very fashion conscious. You can attest to that yourself when you go through some of his pictures on Google and YouTube. He is not necessarily about name brands, but he generally loves to dress well. You can say he has a good dress sense. He loves cologne. With cologne, he loves expensive name brands. He has a rich and enviable collection of wrist watches. ​

How would you describe him whenever he is with his family?

​He is very relaxed and playful when he is with his family. He plays soccer and even dances with us. Because of his playful nature, his grandchildren are crazy about him. They climb him all over and leave him exhausted when they manage to catch him. ​

What is his favourite food?

​Although my father is a lover of food and would generally not think about food unless he is hungry, I think he enjoys pounded yam and egusi soup a lot. He loves it better when bush meat accompanies the egusi soup. He is disciplined when it comes to food. He would always tell you that there is no way he can be ‘caught’ with food because he considers food a distraction which unfortunately, one cannot do without.

How financially comfortable is he?

​He is comfortable financially, able to provide food, shelter and clothing for his family. That is what every man wishes for. God has been very good to him and rewarded his hard work abundantly. My father started from nowhere and God has deemed it fit to bless him financially and with great health. At 60, he moves like a 40-year-old man and works unbelievably long hours. He is incredibly strong and healthy. If you describe wealth in terms of good health, he is a rich man indeed.​

When did he experience his saddest moment?

​I would imagine my father’s saddest moment was when he lost his mother several years ago. He was exceedingly close to his mother and I believe when she passed on, he was hit hard by her demise.​

Who do you think he would like to rule Nigeria?

​That is an interesting question. I do not know who he would choose. But understanding my father the way I do, I can imagine the kind of personality that he would favour for the top job in Nigeria. ​He has to be a God-fearing person who understands the pain of the masses and willing to step on the toes of the low and mighty to reverse the current trend in this country. It is a trend where our commonwealth benefits only less than one per cent of the population. It must be a person who recognises the discrepancy in the distribution of wealth in Nigeria and willing to champion policies that will eventually bring a balance to the country.

Does he wish to contest presidency in future?

​As much as he would like a change in style of governance for Nigeria, unless our politics becomes less of cash-politics, the more you look, the less you see policies; he is unlikely to run for a political office.​

What is he most scared of?

​He is scared of anything that will tarnish his image under any circumstances. As you probably know, he has worked extremely hard over the years to build a brand, a good name and set standards for himself; and he has been very successful in doing that. In view of this, he minds the company he keeps. He scrutinises the kind of cases he accepts and the type of clients he represents.​

Your father has handled cases for prominent Nigerians, including Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose. How does he feel when people pass comments about the calibre of people he represents?

My father has handled numerous high profile cases in the course of his legal career. He has represented the high and mighty, the rich and poor. One thing I know that guides my father whether to represent a client or not is his conviction as to the rights of the client. If he perceives that an injustice was done to a person, no matter how highly placed or lowly placed that person is, he would take on the case. Let us not get carried away with the fact that he represented a distinguished governor in person of Mr. Ayo Fayose. My father was convinced that Mr. Fayose’s accounts were wrongly frozen by a law enforcement agency and my father represented him to get a court order to unfreeze the account.

What are his weaknesses?

​I would say his anger. In fact, he refers to himself as a “volcanic eruption” when he is upset about something. Sometimes, in my opinion, his reaction to an offensive act by a person may seem disproportionate to what the person did. I think part of the reason is that he is a perfectionist and will suffer no fools gladly. But in recent years, the intensity of his anger has dwindled.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]