Dealing with a profligate spouse
GBENGA ADENIJI examines the views of married couples and relationship experts on best ways to help a spouse who spends money lavishly

The wife of Mr. Busayo Farinde (not real name), a petrol station manager in Lagos, is unhappy with his spending pattern. She said her husband enjoys wasting money on what she described as trivial things to the detriment of his family needs.

She said apart from that, he’s comfortable using good money to purchase superfluous things.

She said, “He knows there are pressing needs but he prefers spending money on things that are needless. There was a time he bought a washing machine which cost over N100,000 and a week after, our first child was sent away from school for owing fees. At that period, there was no need for the machine. We had coped many years without one.

“I don’t think there is any amount he cannot spend on anything. The tough part is that he enjoys buying things even if he would go broke the next day. What I have noticed in his spending is that most of the things he buys are unnecessary.’’

A lecturer based in Ondo State, Mr. Fagbemigun Adediran, advised couples to employ financial management in administering their homes.

Adediran told SUNDAY PUNCH that regardless of the love existing among couples, it was crucial for them to know that the strict management of their finances would largely determine the future of their relationships.

He stated, “If a party in a home tends to spend money lavishly, the best to do in that situation is to enforce stringent financial discipline by way of budgeting process. This will help their home.”

Also, an educational consultant, Mr. Edwin Ondor, said marriage was the only institution where two people arithmetically became one and thus couples should strive to achieve coherence in their union.

Ondor said, “In practical terms, it is not always true that marriage is rosy. There are bound to be challenges especially on financial matters. Couples must have a unified budget that monitors cash inflow, outflow and earnings. It is important for them to have a commitment list where needs that require their financial responsibility should be prioritised in order of importance. Frivolous and spontaneous spending should be checked.’’

Arguing that a spouse at ease with spending extravagantly should be cautioned and made to see the wisdom in saving for rainy day, Ondor added that anybody leading a wasteful life financially should be wary of the future.

He said, “Couples should cultivate the financial habit of saving for the rainy day. It may not be in a joint account but there would be an agreement on the amount to be saved by the couples for the future.’’

A lecturer in the Department of Psychology, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Prof. Toba Elegbeleye, noted that there should be an agreement between married couples on how money should be spent.

Stressing the importance of couples saving money for future spending, the lecturer noted that if the partner accused of spending profligately continues unabated, then there would be the need to jointly review the regulation on spending.

He added, “We also need to establish if the money belongs to the person spending it lavishly, to the person complaining or jointly owned by the two. We should also know that the attitudes of men and women to money are different.’’

Elegbeleye observed that what a man might not see as a big deal about spending, a woman could view it as important.

Also, an accountant, Mr. Segun Sobowale, said a partner exhibiting wasteful tendency on money matters should be cautioned in order to avert problems in the home.

He also urged married couples to consult marriage counsellors for help, adding that communication must be explored in such situation.

Sobowale said, “I want to also urge the partner at the receiving end to speak with a person who the wasteful spouse respects and listens to. The couples should also declare their earnings and table their expenses before one another. It is vital to be honest in doing this as such will assist in making everybody aware of the exact situation of things. It is a good thing if the worried spouses can pray to God to change their partners regarded as spendthrifts.’’

A website on frugality, Frugal Wiz, advised couples, who find themselves in this situation, to take the time to talk, shun blame game, ask for help and give up something.

The website counselled, “Communicate that you are willing to give something up so you can help bring about a solution. This is a great signal for the other party to give something up too. The key is to get the other person to see where you are coming from and that you both need to work toward the solution.’’

Besides, a psychologist at the University of Lagos, Prof. Oni Fagboungbe, said if the profligate lifestyle of a spouse had become a habit, his or her partner would need to gradually desensitise him or her.

Fagboungbe said, “It thus means that the behaviour has been going on for some time. It has been inculcated into the person’s behavioural repertoire. The help of a counselling or clinical psychologist should be sought to create a special programme to assist the partner. It is also important for partners going through this to talk to their extravagant spouses on why they should not continue with the habit.’’

The psychologist said caution should be taken in discussing the issue so that their partners would not interpret the move as a cunning way of dodging responsibilities.

He stated, “If the profligate partner is a man, his wife can talk to him for example about someone close to them, who is frugal, and already building a house while they waste money. There are some men, who after receiving salary, will not rest until they spend it all.’’

Fagboungbe emphasised that couples must first find out if the behaviour had become a habit in their partners exhibiting it before seeking help for them.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]