Why it pays to freeze your eggs
Dr. Abayomi Ajayi; 01-4667360, 07026277855 [email protected]

As a woman, you were born with around two million eggs. And by the age of 30, you could be having less than 15 per cent of eggs left. Your fertility begins to decline once you hit your 30s. This decline is one of the main reasons why egg freezing is increasingly popular in women aged 21- 35. There’s currently no treatment that will slow down the decline in the number of good quality eggs a woman has. The best that can be done is to get the eggs out and freeze them while they are young and viable.

Egg freezing allows you to use your eggs, frozen when you are young and healthy, to help you achieve a pregnancy later—when you might otherwise have a harder time finding healthy eggs.

Discussions around egg freezing are becoming more mainstream. The process doesn’t come with 100 per cent guarantee of subsequent pregnancy, but egg freezing suits women who have reduced fertility as a result of cancer treatment but in most cases, you’ll need to pay to have your eggs frozen at a private clinic.

You may wonder whether you can afford to follow suit – or afford not to. Is egg freezing an empowering way to offer women choice? Or an expensive luxury a few can pay for?

You may opt for this procedure if you are not ready to have a baby, or if you are undergoing treatment for an illness that requires chemotherapy or therapy to a part of your body near the ovaries.

New guidelines for egg freezing have provisions that women who have a medical condition that may destroy their reproductive organs can freeze their eggs. The idea is to encourage more women to consider the option. Do you know that about 40 to 60 per cent of women who undergo in vitro fertilization using previously frozen eggs successfully conceive? You can use egg freezing to preserve your fertility.

The latest advance of the freezing technique called vitrification, utilizes chemicals to dehydrate the egg before it is frozen. When thawed, 98 per cent of vitrified eggs survive. Vitrification is a technology used to freeze human eggs and embryos so that they can be stored for later use.

READ ALSO: 15 foods that can boost your sex life

In Nigeria, there are presently no statutory laws governing IVF (except the guidelines launched recently by the Lagos State Government in conjunction with the Association for Fertility and Reproductive Health). However, many clinics design their modus after what obtains in the United Kingdom, where the Human Fertilization and Embryology Authority is the regulatory body.

There are three main stages to the egg freezing process: ovarian stimulation, egg retrieval and fertilisation. Much like with IVF, you first administer a course of at-home injections over around 10 days to stimulate the ovaries so they produce multiple eggs during one cycle. During this time, you’ll be monitored via regular blood tests and ultrasound scans.

Next, eggs are retrieved via an operation, which involves a doctor retrieving the eggs by guiding a catheter through the vaginal wall – you’ll be under general anaesthetic when this happens. The eggs are then pre-treated with a solution and frozen with liquid nitrogen, before being stored in a secure environment. The eggs can be stored for up to 10 years in liquid nitrogen at minus 196 degrees centigrade. When you want to get pregnant, your eggs are thawed and injected with your partner’s or donor’s sperm. The resulting embryo is then placed into your uterus via a catheter. If successful, you could become pregnant normally.

Egg freezing helps you get pregnant later for two primary reasons. Young eggs are more likely to be genetically normal. Remember, you are born with all the eggs you’ll ever have, and as you age, your eggs are less likely to contain genetically normal DNA. Since DNA is like an instruction manual for cells, any damage to it can prevent that cell from doing what it’s supposed to do—which, in the case of the egg, is making a healthy baby.

So with age, your egg quality declines. It is natural and inevitable. But if your eggs are frozen while you are still young, those eggs will avoid the damage that comes with age, and be more likely to lead to a healthy pregnancy.

Egg freezing works because the process of freezing and thawing does not affect the chance of pregnancy when using those eggs during IVF. For instance, if you freeze your eggs at age 30 and thaw them for use at 40, you have approximately the same chance of achieving pregnancy as you would have using those eggs in an IVF cycle at the time they were frozen. You only stopped the clock on your fertility. Your egg freezing success rates directly correspond to the age at which you froze the eggs.

You should freeze your eggs before you are 35 for the best chance of pregnancy after treatment. The younger you are, the better the survival rate and quality of the eggs. It’s usual to recommend freezing around 20 eggs, but doctors will alter this figure based on age and current level of fertility.

It is really important to emphasize that egg freezing does not guarantee you will be able to conceive when you use the eggs later on. Due to the relatively new technology egg freezing utilizes, the number of eggs frozen significantly outnumbers the number thawed and used, so there’s very little data around how successful conception is.

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Visa restrictions may affect family members of culpable Nigerians – US

You can currently use donor eggs to conceive with no legal age limit on this procedure (although some clinics will not provide the treatment to women over 50). The opportunity to freeze your eggs could bring some relief at an extremely hard time. The cost of freezing your eggs is significant but worth it. When you consider the advantages, the potential of egg freezing swings the odds in your favour.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]