Having a happier relationship
A lot of us have been taught that being happy in a relationship is something that just happens. However, there’s a lot more involved. Trying these tips can help you have a happier relationship

Spend time together

There is no substitute for shared quality time. When you make a point of being together, without kids, pets and other interruptions, you will form a bond that will get you through life’s rough spots. Time spent together should be doing a shared activity, not just watching television.

Make the most of your differences.

Stop and think, what most attracted you to your partner at the beginning? It’s likely to be the same thing that drives you most insane today. Take a fresh look at these differences. Try to focus on their positive aspects and find an appreciation for those exact things that make the two of you different from one another. It’s likely that your differences balance one another out and make you a great team.

Communicate

Lack of communication is the number one reason even good relationships fail. And here is a useful format for doing so, especially when dealing with incendiary topics – listen to your partner’s position, without interrupting him or her. Just listen. When he or she is finished, summarise what you heard him or her say. If you can, empathise with your significant other even though you don’t agree. This will take your partner off the defensive, and make it easier for them to hear your thoughts and feelings. It’s hard to argue when you use this format, and best of all, you may come up with an understanding or a solution.

Honesty is essential

You may share with your partner the things he or she doesn’t want to hear. Better this than to have him or her doubt your honesty. Mistrust is one of the key deal breakers in relationships. And once trust is lost or broken, it can take a very long time to re-establish it in the relationship. The happiest relationships are the ones where honesty is as natural as breathing.

Respect your partner

Treating your sweetheart with respect is likely to get you the same in return. And regularly reminding them how much they mean to you will enrich your relationship in indescribable ways. When you say, “I love you,” pause for a moment to really mean it. And don’t be afraid to express your feelings of appreciation with your partner — he or she will be thankful that you did.

Treat your partner the way you want to be treated

Making these secrets an integral part of your relationship won’t be easy. In fact, your efforts may initially seem like planted seeds that never come up. If you maintain your efforts, however, you will likely reap what you sowed.

Don’t just tell him or her; show your partner that you love him or her. Expressing your love requires you having a keen understanding of what affection means to him or her – not to you, but to your partner. This is where most people go wrong. We think that loving our partners the way that we, ourselves, want to be loved is the same as loving them the way they want to be loved. In most cases, two people perceive love in two different ways.

Always go the extra mile

Why? Because your partner deserves it! He or she deserves everything, the whole world. If you could give it to him or her, you would. This is the person you love and you wish all the best experiences in the world for. Your partner’s happiness is, in part, your happiness.

Always listen first

We talk too much and listen too little, too often. Most of the time, people don’t want to know your opinion; they just want someone to vent to, someone who will share their pain. Just listen, nod your head and tell them how much “that sucks.” If, and only if, they want your advice should you give it to them.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]