My baby’s cry after birth was most beautiful sound I ever heard – Prof. Sese
Head of Department, Animal Science, Niger Delta University, Amassoma, Bayelsa State, and ex-Coordinator, Academic Staff Union of Universities, Port Harcourt Zone, Prof. Beke Sese, shares what fatherhood has taught him with SIMON UTEBOR

How would you describe fatherhood?

Fatherhood ought to be how one nurtures, guides, grooms and grows a biological child. But I think it is beyond playing that role to one’s biological child. Society today is made up of many boys, girls and children that may not even experience the true meaning of fatherhood from those that naturally brought them into the world.

One can meet these kinds of people at various segments of society – church, school, work places. But basically, it is for much older person, a much experienced person providing guidance, cover, mentorship to a much younger person and in most cases, one’s biological child.

When did you become a father?

I became a father six years ago. I have a young child.

Would you say you married at the right time?

As regards the question of the time of marriage, I don’t think anybody, who is of a marriage age, would like to say one married at a right time or a wrong time. But if I had had my way, I probably would have married a bit earlier. As a first child, I had a lot of pressure. I am not from a very wealthy family in terms of naira and kobo, but in terms of the things money can’t buy – integrity, dignity, grace and others, my father was very rich in them.

Before one goes into marriage as a young man, one must be economically prepared and there are other key indices and those issues inadvertently created a bit of delay if I would want to stick out my neck. I wish I had married a bit earlier but I cannot question the time I met my wife because that is what I think must have been divinely inspired because I met quite a few young ladies before I met her. But by divine grace, we have been together and we will continue to be together.

What fear did you entertain before becoming a father?

To be honest with you, I wouldn’t say I entertained any fear, but a bit of apprehension. It is still in the hands of God. Our parents are God’s gifts to us; same with our children. We do not have a say about what type of child – son or daughter – one will have. It is a gift from God. But as a human, I was really, I do not want to use the word ‘desperate’, but eager to have a child and so, I did not know what kind of child I was going to have.

My child is still young, but sometimes, people are born blind, deaf, physically challenged; some are born with all sorts of issues, which are beyond one’s control. I was actually praying to God that the child should come without issues.

When my child was born, he was healthy. From that day till today and as I speak with you, he has satisfied all I could ever ask for in a child. He is handsome, well behaved and also showing significant progress in school and most importantly, he is of a good health. I give God all the praise. If I had any subconscious fear, I think God has taken care of it.

You have been very active in ASUU activities both at the Niger Delta University and at the zonal level, where you were the coordinator. During those times, how were you able to manage your duties and obligations as a father?

That is the whole essence of time management. Really, it was not been easy because I travelled a lot but I thank God it was not to the extent where I would completely be deprived of creating that bond of friendship with my son and family. And one good thing about ASUU as a union is that despite the intensity of our engagements, the leadership – the president, including myself as a leader – give family issues a priority.

I am still active in the union but not as when I was the ASUU coordinator, but the balance has been there. My family and I still maintain that bond.

Did you accompany your wife to labour room during your child’s birth?

I did not enter the labour room but I was outside the door with my heart in my mouth. As soon as I heard the cry of the baby, it was the most beautiful sound I had ever heard in my life. The nurse came out with the baby and said congratulations. While I was out there waiting, I knew that it was all God because there are thousands of people who have had tragic experiences in childbearing. In this case, I heard the cry of the baby and the voice of the mother and I gave God all the glory.

How do you discipline your child when he acts up?

Interestingly, it is said that instruction works with smiling faces. I think I learnt enough from my father. One thing my father did most – I can’t remember how many times he flogged me, even though they said we should flog. May be when I was much younger, but when I became more conscious, there were a few occasions. It was my mother that used to flog me sometimes but my father, when he talked to me, it used to sink in more than anything else. I have emulated a similar approach to disciplining my children. I am not so quick to be physical. I try to restrain myself, particularly when a child misbehaves out of ignorance. But it is different from when a child is deliberately mischievous.

In a few situations where I saw very few negative traits of mischief, chief among which was losing one’s temper to one’s mum or to me, I quickly smack the child and I flog very lightly. In most cases, whenever I flog my child and he knows that he has done something mischievous, he does not even cry. He only goes away because he knows that he has done wrong. When I see that sense of remorse, I quickly call him and explain to him why I flogged him.

On many occasions, he does not repeat that act. I do not want him to get used to being flogged but I want him to get used to being talked to; that way, he will understand. I am very careful how I discipline him. I do not intimidate my child.

What has your experience as a father taught you?

I am not proud to say I was temperamental but I have learnt more patience because if one is dealing with children, one has to be patient with them for them to understand them. I have also become a little bit more careful in the way I talk and in the way I behave because I also realise that one of the ways children learn is by imitating. They imitate their father; mother and even their words.

If one is loose with words, the child will pick the words and say them if one is not there and when one hears the words, one will be wondering where the child hears them from. Those things are not what I normally give special attention to but as a father, one is conscious that someone is watching one and learning from one. One will have to consciously try to make sure that they get the right thing. As an academic, I am always on my laptop; I am always writing. You will see that right from his young age, my child is making a friend with biro and paper and he is very comfortable in starting up my computer. He knows how to connect everything in my computer.

Do you desire your child to follow in your career path?

Absolutely, even more, but he may not necessary be a professor but he can be a Senior Advocate of Nigeria or a general in the Nigerian Army. The thing is that I have an attitude of hunger to grow. Wherever I am, I like to grow to the top as long as I am alive. I work hard to grow to the top, not necessarily trying to overtake anybody. It is just to ensure that there is growth. In life, there will always be growth, even as a professor, I am still working.

I like a child to also see that his father got to the pinnacle of his profession; he should also inculcate that aspect of wanting to be the best. If he grows to be a professor, that is it. I will definitely, without interfering too much in his own natural gift and destiny, guide him to be nothing less than the best.

What is the relationship between you and your family like?

My relationship with my family, both nuclear an extended, is extremely cordial and friendly. Love and understanding remains the bond.

How do you bond with your family whenever you have the time to do so?

One thing I find heart-warming is that when I return home and I enter the compound, my child runs towards me when I honk the horn of my car. Instantly, he jumps around. I then see that I have been missed.

My wife would tell me that once there was a honk, the child would look through the window, asking ‘where is my daddy’? I think that is the manifestation of bonding and whenever I am at home, I also create time to play with my child. When I return home, no matter how small, I buy things such as bananas, doughnut and toys.

Do you have a kind of place you take them to for bonding?

I must be honest with you, this is one aspect that has not been very prominent in my family. But during the last festive period, I took my family to amusement park, cinema, and other places and we had fun. But it is not something that is very frequent. What I am trying to do now is to register my son in a gym for self-defence.

I am also registered in a gym for physical fitness. Once in a while, we will go and learn how to swim because I am trained in martial art and I also want him to do some martial art – not to go and fight anybody but for self- defence.

How do you settle disagreements with your wife?

We resolve them by talking to each other frankly. As you know me, one of my weaknesses is that I am too frank in my talk. I say my mind; I am not the kind of man that will be upset and you will not know. If I am upset, almost instantly, you will know that I am upset and it will be resolved; that is the kind of person I am. And that is the kind of heart Jesus wants us to have – the childlike heart.

Do you involve third party in the settlement of disagreements between you and your wife?

No; I used to have a close friend I talked with but not now. We learn every day. In my adult life, I do not need anybody to tell me but I realise that all those things do not help because some of the third parties are even more confused than oneself. This emotional relationship is not something that one uses intellect to address because one plus one could not be two; it could be three or four.

How do you celebrate your child when he makes you proud?

I buy gifts. My son did very well in the last result; I bought him a bicycle and he had a bicycle before. Now, he has two bicycles. I deliberately did that because there is a boy who comes to share bicycle with him; so, I decided to retain the second one so that he has somebody to ride with. I made him understand why I did that in order to make him do more.

What is your advice to newlyweds?

My advice for new couples is for them to marry their friends more than anything else. They should ensure that there is God in their relationship; there must be conscious fear of God. Without that in any marriage or relationship, one will find difficulty, because when one is close to God, it draws couples close together. They must eschew anger and pride. Love must resonate in them.

What principles guide you in parenting?

The number one principle is the fear of God and also my attitude of being meticulous. I am not somebody that believes in half measures; I always believe that anything that is worth doing is worth doing well. I like doing things properly and doing things properly means one has to raise one’s children properly. One has to dress, talk and behave properly.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]