Should parents make native language compulsory for their kids?
SIMON UTEBOR writes about the merits and demerits in making indigenous language compulsory for children

Nowadays, many Nigerian children can hardly speak their mother tongue when also not in full grasp of the foreign languages they experiment with in their daily communication.

This is common with many Nigerian kids who are unable to speak their local languages and yet speak English in such way that alters the basic rules of the language.

For Mr Sola Olatunde, a parent, whose family lives abroad, it is an unwritten law in their house that Yoruba is the language of communication.

He said, “When they (children) step out of the house, they can revert to “mheen! Yo!”, but inside our house, whether in Nigeria or in the US, it is Yoruba we recognise. If you dare speak any other language, such a person will be in deep trouble.

“Another thing parents should know is that children learn faster when one teaches them in their mother tongue. The late former Minister of Education, Prof. Babatunde Fafunwa, proved this in his experiment.”

Shedding light on the situation, a parent, Mrs Coronation Diepreye, opined that in order to check the trend, which is fast eroding the language and cultural values of the people, parents should make indigenous languages compulsory for their kids to speak at home.

She believed that if kids learnt their mother tongue in their formative years, there was no way they could forget the language.

Diepreye criticised the mentality of making children speak English at home, lamenting that if such development continued, there would come a time when speaking native language would be seen as a taboo.

She said, “Many people, who do not understand the level of damage being done to our native language, think mother tongue is uncivilised or local.

“Therefore, in order to ‘belong’, they jettison their native language in the name of civilisation. Unfortunately, many of the kids have also been caught in this intricate web.

“Schools are also contributing to the erosion of our language culture. While English is compulsory in primary and secondary schools today, the indigenous languages are not – they exist only in rhetoric. Children will think the languages are a joke, hence the pupils won’t bother to learn or speak them.”

For a parent and first-class monarch in Bayelsa, King Collins Daniel, native language should not be made optional at homes but compulsory.

He said if parents paid a lip service to such an important aspect of the culture of the people, it could lead to the extinction of many languages in Nigeria.

The traditional ruler added, “Parents should make the speaking of their native languages compulsory for their children; otherwise the children will grow up not being able to speak them.

“The situation, if allowed or made optional, the children will prefer speaking foreign language to their own which can lead to the extinction of most languages. Language is an aspect of a man’s history, and it is important for the children to be abreast of their history.”

In her contribution, Mrs Patra Tommy, who is a mother of four, posited that it was important for parents to train their children in their formative stages with their dialects.

She recalled that in the past, expressions or countenance on the face of one’s mother spoke volumes without uttering a word, stressing that top secrets were expressed in one’s mother tongue in the midst of foreigners.

She stated, “The story of a teenager who was slapped by his mother for being naughty in Germany says it all. Phone calls were made to the police and in a short while, the police arrived with the intention of arresting the mother.

“Communication ensued between mother and child. Mother said in their dialect, ‘Omo mi, ti o ba soro peren, ti e ba e’ (meaning child, if you say a word to them, you are finished). With this, mother and child started laughing – a situation which threw the police into a confused state and they walked away without any arrest.”

Tommy further said knowing one’s native language could give one an edge over others.

She added, “For instance, I attended a village outreach recently in the West and predominantly the majority of the people didn’t understand English.

“God used me to interpret the English message to Yoruba where people gave their lives to Christ though I am not a Yoruba by birth. I grew up in Yorubaland and understand the language well. I also understand my mother tongue.”

But a parent and Delta State-based pastor, Gaius Utomi, the language parents want their children to speak is optional to them.

He said, “God doesn’t specify any language for a particular family as long as the adopted language can afford good and clear communication.”

For a father of two and a broadcast journalist, Ebikekienmo Solomon, language is the bedrock of one’s culture.

He insisted that it was imperative for children to learn the language of their parents to continue in order not to denigrate their parents’ cultural heritage.

Solomon noted, “It is necessary for our children to know their culture and by extension, learn the language of their parents.

“Such knowledge of our indigenous languages will build the confidence of the children whenever they visit their community or country home if they live outside their state without the presence of their parents.”

In his contribution, another parent, Mr Goodman Emmanuel, said native language should be made compulsory for kids at home.

He said such approach would bring back the mother tongue which had almost gone into extinction as a result of over 90 per cent adoption of foreign languages in homes.

Goodman said, “This foreign language syndrome has also eaten deep into our language and other cultural values. The most appalling is that most people behave as if English is our indigenous language. It has got to a level where those who cannot speak English are treated with scorn and disdain.

“It is even absurd that whenever people can speak beautiful English, the person automatically assumes the position of an intellect. Those who cannot speak foreign language are classified as illiterates; it is that bad.”

A professor of English at the Department of English, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Rotimi Taiwo, said it was important for parents to teach their children their indigenous languages but not made compulsory.

He encouraged the parents to ensure that their children learnt their native languages to sustain them and pass them on to the next generation.

He, however, said indigenous languages had their limitations in terms of socialisation outside the family setting.

Taiwo said, “If you make the learning of indigenous languages compulsory for your children, their socialisation outside, definitely from what we all know, will not be in the indigenous languages.

“Except every parent does that, then it means it will become a norm. Otherwise, if a few parents do that, then, they end up having children who will be able to use the language but among their peers, they will still have a challenge.

“Therefore, they can make it compulsory for the children if parents restrict the language to the home setting alone but not in the larger society.

“I teach English but I still want to encourage parents to make sure that their children learn indigenous language so that they can sustain them and pass them on to the coming generation.”

Also, a developmental psychologist at the University of Ibadan, Oyo State, Prof. Grace Adejuwon, said learning indigenous language depended on the value the parents placed on their language.

Adejuwon said one’s mother tongue was important because it had to do with the children’s identities, adding that it could be bad when children could not speak the language of their place of origin.

She said, “If I am a Yoruba and I do not think Yoruba is important, I will make my children to speak English. But if I am Yoruba and I think that Yoruba is important, then, I will speak Yoruba to my children.

“They cannot be forced to do that; it depends on individual family and what values they place on their own language.

“Parents are the owners of their children; they have the freedom and the right to speak whatever language they want to speak to their children. We cannot say it should be ‘compulsory’. One can only advise them or tell them it is right for them to speak their own language to their children but we can’t tell them it is compulsory.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]