My kids tease me about my beliefs in aluta –Erubami
President, Nigeria Voters Assembly, Mr Mashood Erubami, shares his fatherhood experience with GBENGA ADENIJI

What does fatherhood mean to you?

From my own personal perspective and empirical knowledge of what obtains in my family and knowledge of other familiar families, fatherhood to me is a fatherly status that brings up a family in a rare manner that gives priority to education and morals, home-based and institutional, to bringing up children with distinctive personality profiles for the progress of the home, advancement and development of society.

When did you become a father?

I became a father from the day my wife informed me in early September 1983 that she was pregnant. That day was fantastic in my life as I started feeling that my parents’ prayer on me had been heard. My mother usually prayed for me that she gave birth to me and that I would give birth to my own children for her to carry on her back.

She would however prefer the first child to be female and also the second, so that they could take care of my father in old age. In her belief, female child is compassionate and exceedingly loving. So it was that my first child, born on May 20, 1984, was a female and also the second. My father too wished me to have female as my number one, two and three before my first male. Obviously, my parents predetermined that my children would be more than four; eventually, I had six – two females and four boys.

Did you nurse any fears prior to your becoming a father?

Yes of course, the normal fears of becoming a father and being responsible and regularly responsive to the needs of my wife and children of the union.

I nurse aggravated fears by the thoughts of entering the fatherhood contests of unending provision of materials for the sustenance of the biological family, meeting the basic needs of my children to unknown deadlines, e.g. health and medical facilities, clothing, education and maintenances. Also, I nursed the fears of how I would not renege on the tradition of taking care of my parents and the tradition I met my father fulfilling, taking care of extended families.

There was the fear of how to meet family needs within available means and restructuring available time between works outside and the attention required by the family and limiting the time I gave friends and acquaintances to satisfy the new demands from my wife and children.

Besides, there was the fear of the new shared love from the first born with others and no longer able to do things as a freelance but learning anew how to manage home differently as an attention-giving father.

What has fatherhood changed about you?

Being a father changed my ways of life spectacularly as I cannot do what I was used to, visiting friends of diverse sexes after work; going to clubs and working overtime at work. All these diminished with the thoughts of knowing there is a home already and knowledge that one has become a father.

Prior to my becoming a father, I never bothered myself about the future. I always thought that the future would provide for itself.

However, since I got married and committed the sin my father committed in pushing my mother into motherhood, leading to my birth, I started ruminating over how we their children depended on them for existence and how they managed to provide for us from their modest means as a goldsmith and trader respectively.

My mother provided support even though meagre when necessary. My liberal thoughts drastically changed when I became a father, that I cannot spend all that I am able to make once given that I am a marxist socialist, a banker and financial manager who knows the value of money and how to manage it to produce further wealth.

Preparedly, I ended up being a social critic and principal crusader against wealth amassment and an anti-corruption change agent. This status symbol made me to become a traditional critic without supporting means, a status that turned me into a man of little means. This is in the course of the struggle to displace but not to replace people in political offices for their avaricious attitudes unfortunately.

The play outs from this became known to my children that my courage as a crusader and ideas about a sane society has not mitigated my poverty of material well-being.

Fatherhood responsibilities and unknown futuristic developments changed my attitude and thoughts that “only the deep can appeal to the deep”, apology to Chief Obafemi Awolowo. I was however helpless.

How have you been able to combine your roles as a father and an activist?

Sincerely, my roles as a father cannot be separated from activism, which are mutually inclusive. Activism has helped my fatherhood in many ways. I cannot solely rely so much on my training as a financial management scientist and a banking expert. I have to establish a non-profit, non-governmental organisation, Centre for Human Rights and Ethics in Development in 1992, through which I joined the main stream of democratic struggle in the National Democratic Coalition, Campaign for Democracy and PRONACO, against military rule, de-annulment of the June 12 election, explicitly won by Basorun M.K.O.Abiola in 1993, engagement in electoral reforms, election observation and democratic development.

I later became the first president of the CD after taking over from Dr. Beko Ransome-Kuti, who was the chairman for many years. I was later elected the chairman of the Transition Monitoring Group, the most renowned election observation group in Nigeria from where I became the first executive chair of the West African Election Observation Network covering the 16 countries of West Africa. At that time, I depended on travel and feeding allowances and consultancy fees.

Through my meagre means, I am able to meet the modest needs of my children and other basic needs of my extended families with the major support of my adorable wife of inestimable value.

Is any of your kids showing interest in following your career path?

Of course, they watch my footsteps and learn from my engagements while struggling for the birth of deliberative democracy in the land. All my children support me in the struggle, taking after me and their mother who is another implicit activist at home. She followed me to rallies and supported my frequent attendance of meetings locally and internationally and strongly took care of the home when I was not in. Interestingly, the children have chosen different careers for themselves in the sciences and art definitely not in financial studies but they are struggle-minded.

Did you hope for any particular gender before the birth of your first child?

Not in the least. I was listening to learn from the experience of my forerunners in childbearing – my mother and father particularly.

What do your children tease you about?

They teased me about my comradeship and beliefs in aluta struggles and that victory is certain despite the fact that Nigeria continues to live in successive low moral standards.

How do you discipline them when they misbehave?

I developed through local wisdom and knowledge building from my grandparents and parents. The primary school I attended, African Church Primary School, Ita-Iyalode, Owu, Abeokuta, Ogun State, provided the foundation for wisdom acquisition for me. I grew up knowing eye signs and good moral teachings. When I look at my children, they know when I am not happy with what they have done or doing.

I do not however spare them the cane when they misbehave despite my training. I stopped canning once they attained 18.

How do you reward them when they make you proud?

I send messages or talk to them appreciating whatever feat they achieve. I always remind them about the need to be good ambassadors of the family who should always excel in their chosen endeavours. I always seize the opportunity of their good behaviour or great achievements. I also remind them of the children of whom they are, bringing them into the consciousness that I am the first to take the family name from local to international level and always wish they take it higher beyond the country.

What values did you imbibe from your father which you are applying in raising your children?

I inherited the virtues of discipline, honesty, love for education, hardwork, commitment to collective decisions, compassion for others and beliefs in personal human rights and promotion of others. All these have helped me in raising my children, five of the six are already graduates with the last born, an undergraduate in the university, in whom I am expecting a tougher Erubami in the struggles for human rights and democratic development.

What would you have loved to do differently as a father?

I love what I do presently. If not, I would have reordered my lifestyle. Admittedly, we fought for democracy but the politicians have beaten us into retreat. They fear to put us in sensitive political offices for fear that they may not be able to control us or that they would not want to expose how they make money in government to us.

Those that we wage the democratic struggle against are still in control, keeping us at a far distance to power unfortunately. We are still helpless.

I can only improve steps further in fighting for a better Nigeria that is less corruptible, where election will be conducted under a free from fear atmosphere, freely, fairly and turning out legitimate winners from the popular votes of the peoples, where the rights of citizens will be protected and defended by government against abuses.

As a father, I will like to work together with my children to build their different homes and bring up their children as the basic unit of society, if current life realities permit me to live long like my parents.

How do you appreciate your wife for partnering with you to raise your kids and keeping the home whenever you are away?

I always appreciate each particular partnership and support with hearty love in return and our children have always seen a semblance of that.

As I said earlier, my wife is the strong beacon and foundation of my home who provides all needs in my absence and makes my children comfortable when I am either in police detention and the prisons for ‘political offences’ against the state or outside the country for pro-democracy meetings and consultancy works.

Each time I travelled, I always asked her what she wanted me to bring back for her. She always preferred any revolutionary books that will enrich our library and knowledge about good governance globally and leadership.

Personally, she prefers anything that will adorn more beauty on her. She teasingly asks for anything she will wear that will not make me to look outside.

What challenges do you face as a father?

The first challenge is how to balance the tough times we experienced while growing with the imperatives of the present times. These times demand that the children should taste the bitter aspects to be thoroughly developed and the love that we have for our children made us loathe their experiencing the same hard path we treaded to fatherhood.

Beside the relentless engagement of the mother in struggling to ensure that the children survive is the hard core duty of the father providing endless financial and real- time material supports for the mother. The mother keeps on training the children with the huge support of the father but none of us could predict when our parenting would end.

Another big challenge to me as a father is when playing my role as a manager of diverse family conflicts, one between my wife who is from another town and mother over mutual issues on one hand and on the other hand, two grand families over their observations of how things are going in the families. Most times, I have used experiences gained from the conflict resolution studies from the Marquette University, United States of America.

Above all, balancing home financing between what is needed by the micro family and what I am expected to spend to maintain the extended family is another big challenge to take out the prying eyes of outsiders from my wife who they might mistake as obstacle to what should accrue to them.

What is your advice to would-be fathers?

My candid advice to would-be fathers will be first to learn from what worked in their families and outside families and what did not. Take pre-marital decisions on the model of family they want to raise and balance the quality within what they can afford. A good father must strive to sustain his family to avoid a broken home so as not to make his family create crisis for society. Unity and sustainable human development will reign where there is peace. The crises in larger society are a product of the cumulative crises of homes.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]