Dad rejected continental dishes as Bauchi deputy gov so we don’t get used to them — Abdulmalik Mahmood’s son
Abba is the first son of a former deputy governor of Bauchi State, Alhaji Abdulmalik Mahmood, during the Adamu Mu’azu administration. He talks about his father’s life and politics with ARMSTRONG BAKAM

Tell us a bit about yourself.

I was born in Itas, Gadau Local Government Area of Bauchi State in 1977. I completed secondary school at GSS Karaye Unity School, Kano, in 1991. From there, I proceeded to the Bayero University Kano, where I first earned a Diploma in Public Administration and later, a Bachelor of Science in Political Science.

Did your father encourage you to study any particular course?

There was no such encouragement from my father because since I was 14 years old, I started seeing different people coming to see him discussing many things and that made me curious to find out why people were coming to see him. It was later I learnt that he liked politics and it was from them that I nursed the dream of studying Political Science in the university and that was it.

Did he discourage you when you told him you wanted to study political science?

I didn’t tell him about my aspirations; it was when I got the admission to study Political Science that I told him. He didn’t object to that. He even gave me some books to read to help me.

Tell us about your siblings.

I have 18 brothers and sisters that are alive now and I am the first son. One of them, Ibrahim, is a computer engineer. Ibrahim did secondary school in the United States and also earned a degree there. There is another one, Mawuya; he is a medical doctor. He schooled in Sudan. Zaharadeen got a degree in Political Science from Uganda. There is also Hayatu who studied Accounting at the University of Abuja. Teslim is currently studying in London, United Kingdom. Out of the 18 of us, only three have yet to complete their degrees.

You studied political science but working in the judiciary. Was it your father who encouraged you or what?

No, it wasn’t my father that encouraged me. When I graduated, there was no job for me; so, I found myself in the judiciary since there was none available except in that place. I then applied for transfer of service from Itas Gadau LGA, having reached level 10, and I came to Bauchi where I now work.

What memories of your father can you recall while growing up?

He always told us many stories and it was when he finished that one would know that the story was about one. The most important thing is that whenever we were with him, we learnt many things from him. Seventy per cent of the things I learnt, I didn’t learn from school but from him.

The problem is that when I was young, he was in school – he was studying for Nigeria Certificate in Education in Kano and that was in the early 1980s. It was when I grew up that I used to be with him sometimes and that was before he went to the United States of America.

I didn’t really spend much time with him. I may not be able to tell you much about my father and the memories I had growing up with him because, although I know him facially, I didn’t stay with him for long.

But for the little time I spent with him, I remember in 1985 that he used to take us out sometimes to Gombe because from Gadau to Gombe isn’t far. He would take us there and buy many things such as foodstuff for our school.

When I grew up, as the first born, I had the opportunity of spending more time with him than my younger ones because the age gap between us is wide. For instance, I am eight years older than my immediate younger brother. They didn’t spend much time with our father since they were far younger.

How would you describe your dad?

He is a very good, kind-hearted, caring and loving father but one thing about him is that he doesn’t like indiscipline. As a teacher, a former headmaster and principal, he doesn’t condone indiscipline. My mother still calls him headmaster.

How did your father discipline any of his children who misbehaved?

You see, we are different and he didn’t discipline us the same way. I am the one he used to beat when I was young. I can’t really remember if I was stubborn then, but he disciplined me because he had my time. It was much later when I grew up that I realised he disciplined me well anytime I did something wrong.

He did that so that in years to come, he would have time to rest and I will take over from him in training my younger ones.

He used to beat me but my younger ones didn’t know he used to do that to me and even now, if they are talking, I used to laugh at them because they don’t know he used to beat any offending child. When he became local government chairman, he didn’t have time for us. In fact, when he became deputy governor, he still didn’t have time for us; so, I had to take up the responsibility of taking care of my younger ones and I thank him for that.

What is the experience like with him as the first child?

It was challenging being the first son, most especially when one’s siblings are far younger. This is because one has to be careful so that one doesn’t end up discriminating among them. One has to sit down with them, ask them what they desired as the eldest. I had to do everything within my power to give them what they wanted. It was very challenging, something one cannot run away from. It was when I became older that I understood that one cannot satisfy everybody.

How does your father relax?

One cannot precisely say he relaxes because when he was a deputy governor, he sometimes woke up at 8am and went to the office without taking breakfast, lunch and dinner. When he came back, he would eat breakfast, lunch and dinner, all at the same time. He didn’t really have time to relax even now. Many people still come to him because his doors are always open, being a politician and somebody that believes in politics. He is somebody that respects human feelings. He would allow people come to him and stay up to 2am. He normally goes to bed around 2am or 3am and wakes up between 7am and 10am.

What kind of a father is he?

He is a disciplined person. He is always ready to help people and his gate is always open. He is a good listener to people who come to him. When anyone comes to him, he helps. His hands are always wide open. He is someone who always wants to give the best to his children. He had time for us and as his children, we must be back at home by 10pm even when we were mature. If anyone failed to return home before that time, he would deal with the person in his own way. He doesn’t beat us now but has many ways of dealing with us.

What did your father tell you about his childhood?

He told me he was born in Bellawa in the Itas Gadau LGA of Bauchi State. The distance from Bellawa to Itas town is about 40 kilometres. He told me that he used to trek that distance to primary school. He said they used to travel to the place and stay in their uncle’s house. He told me that there was a river and he and six others would swim there before they got to Itas. He also said they would stay there for a whole term and after that, they would trek back.

Up until now, there is nobody that has a single diploma – it is only him that is a graduate in his family and even in the whole of the village. He’s the only one that has a degree.

Most of them went to work in the office without furthering their education. When he talked to us, he used to show to us that it was interesting but very difficult. The most interesting about his childhood was the zeal he had at that time despite the challenges he faced and given the fact that most people weren’t going to school.

If I take you to that village, you wouldn’t believe he came out from that kind of village because the place is small, you cannot get up to 30 or 40 houses. And even that time, it wasn’t as civilised as it is now. When I used to go there, I have not slept there since 1988. When it is rainy season, my father said they couldn’t walk through that road because of the river. They will have to go through another route and use a lorry to go to the school.

What challenges did he face in the early years of his career?

I cannot really point out because in his life, there were many things. As a headmaster and principal, he had many challenges. After he returned from the US, they took him to one village called Futuk; he went there for three to four days and left because he couldn’t stay there. Imagine someone returning from the US and then you take him to Futuk under the Alkaleri LGA to teach. I think that was one of the challenges that he faced. Being someone who likes being on his own, later, he resigned and joined politics.

What values did you learn from him?

What I learnt from him is how to be independent; that is what he has taught not only me but all of his children. He wants us to be responsible so that we can take care of ourselves. He doesn’t want us to be going to people to beg or look for favours from them because we are the children of a former deputy governor. Even if we know someone highly placed, he doesn’t want us to go begging but he wants us to be on our own. He doesn’t want us to be liabilities.

That was how he brought us up and how we have been all these years. He doesn’t go to people begging; that is how he is. He has also taught us how to live simple lives. He doesn’t want us living like ‘big boys’. He doesn’t want bragging around that we are the children of a deputy governor.

He would tell us, I remember that there was a time I used to tell him I didn’t like eating one local northern soup, miyan kuka (baobab leaves soup). He then told me that I should work hard to avoid eating it.

Dad would say, “You would have had your own house, money and all you need to avoid eating it but for now, you must eat miyan kuka.”

I even remember that when we got into the Deputy Governor’s Lodge, they used to bring intercontinental dishes but three weeks after he settled down, he said he didn’t like the dishes. He said he didn’t want a situation where his family would get used to it and later, when he is no more in office, he wouldn’t continue giving them the same dishes. He asked us to forget about those dishes because he knew how he grew up. I like his style of life. I learnt from him that politics is a game of brain and plan.

How does his name open doors for you when people know you are his child?

Being the first son of a former deputy governor is nothing to me, but what matters to me is being Abdulmalik Mahood’s son. I am proud of being his son because he is a good father. He taught us a lot and we learnt many things from him. Majority of my friends don’t even know that my father served as deputy governor and I used to hide it from them because I know one day, he wouldn’t be there. It is about 12 years since he left office; so why will one be bragging about that?

Did he have preference for any type of music?

He doesn’t like music. One can only see him watching only CNN and BBC.

Is he a sports lover?

No. One can only see him watching football when Nigeria and other teams or country are playing. He likes watching wresting.

What are his hobbies?

He likes reading books and newspapers. If you go to his house, you will see many books that we don’t even know about. He loves travelling and meeting people.

What other things can you share about your father?

Majority of people believe and know that he is accommodating but the only thing about my father that he doesn’t like is laziness. He doesn’t want people coming to him to beg. He wants you to tell him how he can help you. He doesn’t like gossips and detest anyone coming to tell this or that about someone. When such happens, he will keep quiet and later, he will call you and the person and ask you to repeat what you said about the other person.

When were his happiest and saddest moments?

As someone who has been with him for long, I can say that he was most happy when he became the Itas Gadau LGA chairman because at the time, there was no political tension and crisis in the party. He had two wives and at the time, we had not even grown up. When he became deputy governor, he had problems in his party, in the Government House, in his office, everywhere. He ought to have been happy when he became deputy governor but his happiest moment was when he became council chairman.

For his saddest moment, I cannot tell you precisely because if there is anything you think should make him sad, when you see him, you will find him sleeping.

Let me give you an example. In 2006 during the party primaries when he had a problem with either the governor or the party, and he lost. People who came to his house to sympathise with him saw him sleeping on a mattress. The people were angry, some of them were crying because they thought they had lost their future, but that man was sleeping. He wasn’t sad.

How close are you to your father?

I am close to him. I used to tell him about my personal issues and he also told me about his own issues. He likes sharing his problems with me. There are some of these issues that are not for public consumption but for just father and son alone.

We discussed a lot about politics; we don’t discuss about local politics but international politics because he knows much about it. He will give me the history about international politics and happenings.

Does your father have any regrets in life?

He doesn’t have any regrets in life because he believes that whatever happens to him is from God.

How did he feel when he became deputy governor?

Anything that comes one’s way, one must be happy, whether one is a Christian or a Muslim.

The post didn’t change him in any way. As soon as he was sworn in, he started working. I cannot say how he felt, but he was normal. Remember he was once a council chairman and then they were collecting fund directly from the Federal Government.

But as deputy governor, he had to wait for what the governor would give him or what he was assigned to do. But in all, there wasn’t much difference.

What is the relationship between your father and Adamu Muazu when they were in power?

Their relationship was cordial, although there were many people who tried to see that they had problems always. But he always felt that it was between him and the governor – they all knew their own secrets.

But all I know is that even after they left office, he tried to defend the government of Adamu Muazu politically, financially or otherwise. He stood even when Muazu was not around, and up until now, their relationship is still cordial.

Does he hope to contest governorship of Bauchi State?

I don’t know. You know, in politics, one must put many things in place. He has the qualities, values and the people but not the political actors and financiers because he doesn’t have the money to contest. For now, he doesn’t have interest.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]