I didn’t care about child’s gender, I only wanted a healthy child –Ifowodo
Lecturer and poet, Dr Ogaga Ifowodo, talks about what fatherhood has taught him with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN

What does fatherhood mean to you?

It’s a chance to prove oneself worthy of the gift of life by doing one’s utmost best to raise children who would be responsible and confident human agents, conscious and conscientious citizens that would hopefully leave the world better than they met it.

In a sense, I think it is an opportunity to help shape better versions of oneself. Fatherhood also means to me the joy of rediscovering myself as a child. You don’t have to agree with the German poet Rainer Maria Rilke but, as a writer, childhood remains for me an inexhaustible though remote and opaque store of knowledge, that fleeting period of experiencing the world from innocence and then the stumbling exploration of relations with other beings outside the family circle. Parenthood, to use the more embracing word, presents the opportunity of a return to the past, to a less fraught or tainted way of knowing the world.

At what age did you become a father?

Forty! Life begins at 40, they say, but I didn’t delay deliberately. I guess I became a father just before life and all of its troubles would convince me not to dare to be a father! Actually, I had just begun thinking seriously of getting hitched, a decade after being called to the bar, when I decided to go abroad to ingratiate my long-nurtured desire of studying literature and writing.

What were your fears before you became a father?

I don’t recall any specific fears, except perhaps worrying whether I might be able to get my children to know Nigeria and feel any real bond to the country of their father. I met my wife and got married as a doctoral student at Cornell University in Ithaca, upstate New York.

And though I knew that I would eventually return to Nigeria after completing my studies and a stint in academia in the United States, I always wondered if it might be too late by then. The real fear I had as a doctoral student just finishing his dissertation was how I would fare in the ensuing job search. Luckily for me, my wife, who graduated from Cornell’s Law School, had a job in a New York law firm; so, I didn’t have to worry about affording diapers, baby food and help with child care.

Did you have any preferred gender or sex before the birth of your first child?

No. I assumed it would be either a boy or a girl! All I wished was that he or she be born healthy. I didn’t even care to find out the sex before birth even though that option was available.

Were you in the labour room during the birth of any of your children?

Yes. For both of them — I have two children, a boy and a girl. I also attended a first parents’ meeting at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York where my first child was born.

How did that change you?

It made me appreciate even more the mystery of birth and the astonishing strength and courage of women in childbirth. My wife had protracted labour and was wracked by unrelenting fits of nausea both times. Holding her hand and doing my poor best to soothe and encourage her as she endured wave after wave of nausea, I felt that if men could give birth I might not wish to do it once, let alone twice or more!

What values did your father inculcate in you that helped to shape you?

Unfortunately, my father died when I was just one-year-old, so I never knew him; never had the chance to be scolded or soothed by him. But his brother, my uncle, was as a good a father as a child could ever have. He was a scientist (he read Maths and Physics at Fourah Bay College, Freetown, Sierra Leone, and was a land surveyor) and a deeply religious man. So, I had the best moral values drilled into me right from the cradle.

Above all, however, was his insistence on excellence, on aspiring towards the highest possible goal. He believed there was nothing one couldn’t do if one sets one’s mind to it. So, for instance, he made me repeat primary six just so that I could retake the common entrance examination for a chance to enter Federal Government College, Warri, King’s College, Lagos, or Government College, Ughelli. I ended up at FGC, Warri, and have not regretted for a day his decision to set me back by a year to realise his dream for me of an even better secondary school education than otherwise. I should mention that when, after registering for the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board exam, I asked him for money to also register for the polytechnic admission exam — just so as not to put all of one’s eggs in one basket — he said simply to me, “I sent you to school to go to a university. If you wish to go to a polytechnic instead, then you will have to come up with the money yourself.”

He also taught me an unforgettable lesson in fiscal discipline in a manner I appreciated only long after I had become a working man. Once, at midterm, I asked for more pocket money, having also exhausted the N6 parents were to deposit with the school bursar at the beginning of term. He gave me N20. Back home on holidays, he asked me how much change I brought back. None, I said. “Well, then, write down everything you bought,” he said. This was 1980 or 1981, before General (Ibrahim) Babangida destroyed the naira, which was either at par with the dollar or exchanged at N1.20k to the dollar. A medium size tin of Bournvita was N2.55k and a James Hadley Chase novel 80k or N1, if I remember correctly. You can imagine, then, how much I sweated accounting for N20. I filled up a foolscap sheet listing my purchases! Ah, how Nigeria has come down! I could go on and on but these encapsulate some of the values that were indelibly imparted to me by my father, my uncle.

Are you also instilling the same in your children?

Yes, but in a different way. You know, different place, different epoch but those values remain the same.

How do you celebrate your children when they make you proud?

No special way. I tell them, “I’m proud of you!” Occasionally, however, lunch or dinner in a nice restaurant, or giving in to their sweet tooth cravings!

As a Nigerian parent abroad, how do you discipline your children when they err?

I’ve been back in Nigeria since 2014 and so doing a lot of long-distance parenting, though with ongoing efforts to relocate the whole family home in the shortest possible time. Thankfully, it is the epoch of information technology; so, long-distance parenting is not quite as difficult as in the days of yore.

I’m a great believer in the power of suasion, in talking things over and getting not only children but adults as well to review their actions and see where they may not have acted in the more responsible or acceptable way. Physical chastisement is out of the question for me and that has nothing to do with being in America or anywhere else. Inevitably, there would be moments when suasion does not achieve the goal and needs to be aided by sanctions, the withdrawal of privileges — such as they might be for children (the promised visit to the frozen yoghurt store, or to replace the old sneakers, cutting down on free time, confiscation of the cell phone whose use is already restricted which applies to my older child, etc).

Which of your works do your children tell you they love the most?

They are too young for that. Moreover, I write poetry and, so certainly not what nine and twelve-year-olds would curl up with in bed! Nor can I expect them to be eager readers of my newspaper columns — indeed, considering their subjects, I find myself wishing they don’t!

What is the greatest challenge of being a father?

To me, it is the uncertainty of knowing that you are doing everything necessary to set your children on a firm path to self-fulfilment against all the personal and social constraints that life will always present. And that you do not make them mistake your faults and weaknesses for admirable qualities or by default have them repeated in their own lives.

What thrills you most about being a father?

Seeing my children unfold into autonomous agents, excel at school, spar with me on this or that point; listening to them talk about the things that excite them and why; and, of course, discussing the books they’ve read or are reading with me.

What are some of the things fatherhood has stopped you from doing?

I was never much of a social animal, which is where fatherhood tends to issue the first prohibition edicts; so, there isn’t much that I’ve had to stop doing. I’ve not, for instance, had to give up smoking, heavy drinking, drugs or keeping late nights; so, no, nothing substantial that I can think of.

How do you appreciate your wife for the sacrifices she makes whenever you are away from home?

In the last five years when I’ve been back in Nigeria, that has been an awful lot of time. I make it clear to her that she is my pillar and hero. Luckily for me, she is not the type for material tokens of expression of love and gratitude, though she does appreciate them. So, every now and then, a gift or a dinner in a nice restaurant, the latter often just a family evening out but in her name.

Do you impress it on your kids that they have no choice but to succeed academically?

Absolutely!

Is any of your children following in your career path?

They are too young for that but the younger one, all of nine years old, has given some kind of indication of a juvenile interest in writing!

How true is the saying that Nigerians don’t read?

Not true at all. I should like to know when the definitive study was done and the methodology for it. I’ve always been pleasantly surprised by the number of people who tell me that they were ardent readers of my columns and wish that I were still writing regularly. As for my published poetry, always bound to have its audience in academia, I’m also generally pleased by the amount of attention it has garnered here at home among scholars and students.

What are some of the challenges you face as an author and a father?

I think it is really down to less time for solitude, reading and introspection.

Do your children have nicknames for you?

No, and I don’t know if this is due to the fact that I insisted right from the start that they call me just the old-fashioned “Papa!” But they are young and they may just come up with an interesting nickname or two for me before long.

What advice do you give your children on relationships?

Thankfully, I still have quite some time before I would need to try advising them.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]