ICYMI: Dealing with kids who disobey instructions
SIMON UTEBOR writes about ways to check the excesses of children who disobey instructions either from their parents or the elderly

Parents, whose children talk back at yell back when they talk or complain when sent on errands need to take steps to check such attitude before things get out of control.

As kids begin to stretch their wings by defying orders from their parents, including elders, good parental approaches become imperative.

A father, Dr Ekiyor Welson, said if a child disobeyed his or her parents’ instruction, it was crucial for them to discipline him or her.

The lecturer at the Niger Delta University, Amassoma, however, urged parents or caregivers to first show enough love to the child before resorting to discipline.

Welson stated, “Showing enough love is to show care, provide the needs of the child and offer parental guide. Then, when you have done all these things and the kid still disobeys you, it means the child is rude. You tell the child, ‘if you don’t do this, I will do you this or that’. And when you threaten, ensure that you carry out such threat when he or she disobeys.

“A child that disobeys you can just be doing that because you are also irresponsible as a parent. Therefore, whatever it is you are doing as a parent that is not right, ensure you turn away from it.

“Sometimes, a child disobeys out of rebellion. For example, if you are a father and you always beat your wife, the child will disobey you because he or she doesn’t like what you are doing. Or as a wife, if you always insult your husband, the next time you give the child instruction, he or she will disobey you.

“Above all, you must talk to the child. As you talk to the child, you are teaching the child, instructing and correcting the child. But if you have done all these things and they do not work, take the child to see a psychiatrist – something may be wrong with his or her brain.”

On her part, Mrs Bukky Alabi said many parents ran into trouble when they failed to take appropriate care of a child.

She noted that another aspect parents must not keep mute about was their children’s company, stressing that the company one kept speaks volumes of one’s personality.

Alabi added, “When you don’t cater to the child; you don’t feed the child, buy the needed textbooks or pay school fees, if you give the child instruction, the child will not obey you.

“As a parent, you need to put all these things into consideration. Thereafter, if the child refuses to obey you after providing the necessary things, you need to discipline the child. After disciplining, you also need to know the company your child keeps. It could mean that your child keeps bad company.

“There is a popular saying, ‘show me your friend and I will tell you who you are’. If the company your child keeps is not good, do not hesitate to do the needful. But if you allow things to get out of hand, you will have yourself to blame later.”

A parent, John Durojaiye, said disobedience was usually due to unreasonable parental expectations.

He stated that as children interacted with other people, they imbibed some attitudes that could make or break them.

Durojaiye stated that when a child became recalcitrant towards their parents or other people, it might be related to the child’s temperament, school problems, family stress or parental conflicts.

He said, “Most children fail to heed their parents’ instructions because some of them find such instructions unreasonable and demanding. A situation whereby parents, instead of sending their child to school, ask them to hawk goods, will not actually bring the required obedience from such a child. Even though the child agrees to do so, time will come when such a child will rebel against the order.

“The scenario played out recently with our female neighbour. She usually asked two of her younger children to hawk after school. One day, when the children returned from school, the mother asked them to hawk. She told them to buy food from whatever they sold.

“The children, who returned home hungry from school, were unhappy. That day, they refused to hawk. The mother was upset and considered their conduct as disobedience. She spanked the elderly one who raised her voice at her (mother).

“She told her mother she would no longer hawk despite her threats. Since that time, the children have refused to hawk. The development created tension in their home until some of their relations came to settle the dispute.”

A mother of four, Nancy Johnson, said disobedience at home was usually due to over-pampering children, particularly by mothers.

She explained that at times, some mothers were also disobedient to their husbands and their children learnt their disobedient behaviour from them.

Johnson said, “It is not good for parents to over-indulge their children. When children are over-pampered, it becomes difficult to correct their naughty behaviour. Parents should know the demarcation between love and over-pampering.

“Today, some children have become extremely lazy because of home helps. The home helps do all home chores and should the home helps not be at home one day, there will be crisis. The children, who have been indulged, cannot even light a stove let alone cook food for the family.

“When their parents caution them, they become angry. And any attempt to rebuke them, they will talk back at their parents rudely and disobediently. This is the lot of many children in well-to-do homes.”

A teacher, Mrs Taiwo Ogunlesi, said if one’s child only recently started to demonstrate disrespect and disobedience, parents should let the child know their observation.

Ogunlesi, a mother of four, who teaches at a private primary school, said with the child’s help, parents should find out what caused the habit.

The teacher, who said the development was a major step in helping the child change his or her behaviour, noted that if one’s child was fond of talking back to one, he would respond with disobedience and disrespect thereafter.

She added, “Your child will become more obedient when you remain calm, cooperative, and consistent. The child will learn to be respectful if you are respectful towards him and others in the family. If he becomes disobedient and out of control, impose a light punishment until he calms down and regains self-control.”

Giving a psychological perspective to the issue, a Professor of Psychology at the University of Ibadan, Oyo State, Grace Adejuwon, said disobedience to parental instruction should be viewed from the manner of passing the instruction and whether the child understood its import.

She said non-compliance with instruction could be as a result of the child’s inability to understand the order, how it was passed and when it was passed.

The developmental psychologist counselled parents to always talk to a disobedient child to know the negative and positive consequences of his/her disobedience rather than resorting to punishment always.

Adejuwon, who said punishment was not always the best solution to handling disobedience, noted that there was the need to know the reasons behind the child’s disobedience.

The don stated that the child should be carried along in such a way that the instruction would be understood and accepted.

Adejuwon stressed that attempting to compel a child to obey a misunderstood instruction might be counterproductive.

She added, “There is the need to know the factors that don’t allow the child to obey instructions and the reasons should be spotted out for him. People should also listen to the child and not only the parents. Before passing a judgement for whatever reason, the child is expected to state his own side.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]