Most fathers think fatherhood is all about financial provision – Adefila
Chief Executive Officer, Rave FM, Mr Femi Adefila, who is also the President, United States Exchange Programme Alumni, Osun State, shares what fatherhood has taught him with FEMI MAKINDE

When did you become a father?

I became a father in 1996, precisely on February 9, 1996.

What has fatherhood changed in you?

Fatherhood comes with responsibilities. It is a transition from boyhood to manhood in the practical sense of it. It has made me more empathic, caring and conscious of my actions and inactions, and brought an end to a carefree lifestyle.

Where were you when your wife was delivered of your first child?

I was there in the hospital. I kept vigil the previous night until she was delivered of the baby in the evening of the second day.

What was your experience?

It was a very awesome experience. It was a defining moment, a moment of manifestation. Hours before, I was apprehensive and inquisitive. There were many questions on my mind. How will the child look? How smooth will the process be? There were many questions but a few answers. I was anxious and agitated. But the moment the baby came out, it brought much relief and joy. Indeed, a child is a bundle of joy. It brings much fulfillment and sense of accomplishment.

Were you scared?

No, I don’t think I was scared; I was apprehensive and my heart was in my mouth. I had prayed hard. I knew God was in charge. My wife was strong. She was calm. My confidence in God and her calmness drove fears away.

Where did you meet your wife?

We met in the city of Osogbo. She was a young doctor and a house officer and I just started my journalism career then.

Has child delivery experience made you to appreciate your wife more?

Motherhood is phenomenal. Every man must appreciate his wife. Childbirth is laborious. It comes with so much pain. Mothers are givers of life; no wonder children gravitate more towards their mother. The love stems from the process of pregnancy, childbirth, breastfeeding and general child care. But witnessing childbirth made me appreciate my wife the more.

In what ways did you assist your wife in taking care of the baby?

Fortunately, I love babies. I have always loved babies even before I became a father. I still love babies. I love their innocence, smiles, mischief and friendliness; so it was a joy to have my own. I was all over her. What I did most was carrying her after bath and rocking her to sleep. I have a special song for her which created a strong bond between us till date. My first child was a big baby and handful so I had no issues carrying her.

Did you help her in other ways?

Yes, I helped her in many ways. My wife did one year exclusive breastfeeding for our daughter. It was very energy-sapping for her. Thus, part of my duty was to buy her supplements regularly to enhance her health and physical look.

How do you reward your children when they make you proud?

I have a deliberate policy to get involved in the lives of my children. I think that is the essence of fatherhood. I believe so much in reward system. I reward them with gifts that I can afford, holiday opportunities and birthday parties. But most importantly, I have a conversational relationship with my children as pals. I let them know that reward for hard work is more work and that life is a competition.

How do you discipline them when they err?

I tongue lash, spank and whip them depending on the degree of the transgression. But I also have a process of reconciliation so that the essence of the punitive measure is not lost.

What is your concept of fatherhood?

Fatherhood is a responsibility. Fatherhood is care, love, compassion, understanding, large-heartedness, emotional intelligence and sacrifice.

Are there things you learnt from your father that you are imparting to your children?

My father was gentler and meeker than I am. My father was a good man. He was a man of little means, but had a very large heart. What he lacked in money he had in love. My father was an enabler who created an environment for one to manifest.

He had trust and belief in his children’s ability. Most importantly, he had faith in us.

He wasn’t a born again Christian in the strict definition of today but he was fervent and dedicated to the things of God. His belief in God rubbed off greatly on me and I think I have passed it on to my kids.

I have taught them to see and know God as the essence of living and that trust in God can never fail. Testimonies to this abound in their lives and in the family.

Will you want your children to follow in your career path?

I am not a forceful father and I don’t dictate careers to any children. I allow them the latitude to flow as the spirit of God leads them. None of them is in my field unfortunately. But there is a convergence that I can call the confluence of interest and that is entrepreneurship. My first girl is an economist with another degree in marketing and advertising.

She presently works for a prominent financial institution in the United States of America. To God be the glory for His mercies, love and faithfulness .The other two are pursuing courses in engineering.

How do you bond with your family?

Despite the stress of the profession and general life challenges, I create time for bonding. I discovered that one must create a deliberate and sustained effort to be involved in the lives of one’s children.

Most fathers believe fatherhood begins and ends with financial provision. That is why most children are distant from their fathers and only mothers enjoy the camaraderie of the children. Most African men are too macho to flow with their children.

They give their children money and feel that’s it. Most fathers are strangers in their homes. This is not the best way to build a family. You must have a robust personal relationship with your children, interface with them, talk to them and get to know them. Be as friendly as possible; sing their songs; speak their language; dance together and get to know their slangs.

I compete with my wife for my kid’s attention. She is closer though; she has a deeper relationship with my children. The bonding between them is amazing. Fathers should get to know their children’s boyfriends and girlfriends. Give them tips that make them streetwise and build their confidence.

What is the most valuable gift you have given to your wife?

I have a wonderful wife who has been supportive, sacrificial, understanding and the centre of the gravity of my family. A car has been the most valuable gift I have given my wife and in the last 22 years of our marriage, I have bought quite a few.

What is your advice to would-be fathers?

It’s worth your while. It is your mark of manhood. Go into it with zeal, commitment and total conviction in family hood. Be mature and committed to make it work. Fatherhood is beautiful and emotionally rewarding.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]