Mum enjoys dancing –Son of Lagos ex-deputy governor, Sarah Sosan
Olugbenga is a son of a former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Sarah Sosan. He talks about his mother’s life and career with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

Tell us briefly about yourself.

I studied Business Administration at Bowen University, Iwo, Osun State. I graduated from the school in 2006. I also obtained a Master’s degree at Middlesex in London. I currently run a technology firm.

Did she influence your career choice?

My mother influenced my career choice by guiding me. She supported my ambition.

How do you feel being a son of a former deputy governor of Lagos State?

There is really no difference. It has always been the same. When I say there is no difference, I am not saying that nothing changed when my mother became the deputy governor. But I was not carried away by the affluence of public office. It was always in my mind that occupying public office was not going to be permanent. It never overwhelmed me. There was really no major difference in how we were living before she became the deputy governor and when she occupied the position.

How did your mother raise you?

I was a very stubborn child. Out of all my siblings, I was the one who gave my parents a headache. At the time when the GSM newly came into Nigeria, I was one of the lucky people to have a phone at a young age in school. My mother told me specifically not to leave the house with it. As a child, if you told me something, I would do the opposite. I usually did things the wrong way. I took the phone out of the house and showed my friends, bragging about my new gift. Unfortunately for me, a teacher seized it. For about four days, I didn’t know how to tell my parents that the phone had been seized. My mother later found out and punished me for that.

Back then, my mother kept long canes in a corner of the house. There was a particular cane called Gbenga in our house. It was named after me. It was specifically meant for me when I did wrong. I can never forget the discipline I got from my mother the day she knew I took the phone to school.

I also remember an instance when I was in the boarding school. I left the house with many clothes but came back home with only two. My mother was initially happy to see me when I got home. When she learnt about the missing clothes, she started shouting at me. I kept wondering if she was not the same woman who was happy to see me a day before. I was so scared of her then. Thinking about it now, I realised I needed the discipline to be a responsible child. There were certain things I could not do then because of my fear and respect for her.

Mothers are considered soft while fathers are described as hard in some homes. Would you describe your mother as soft?

I don’t know who came up with that assertion but definitely, that was not my case. My father is a retired naval officer. We fear and respect him for that. For my mother, there is a certain way she would look at you that you would know she is not happy with you. I still have that fear and respect for her even though I am now married and have a son. There is a certain way she looks at me now and I would come to my senses. But she was not always tough. She also has a soft side. She was ready to sacrifice a lot so we could excel. She was willing to give her all for us.

What other childhood memories did you share with your mother?

I attended the Nigerian Navy Secondary School, Abeokuta, Ogun State. I remember a particular experience when I came back from school. It was the first time I would leave home for three months. I was 12 years old then. My father came to pick me at school and I greeted him as usual. But when I got home, I remember running from the gate of our house to where she was. I shouted, “mummy” from the gate as I ran towards her. I held her tightly. I had missed her. I remembered that I cried as I hugged her. That is a memory I will never forget. That should be in 1994. She just held on to me. As she was moving, I held on to her. It showed how close we are.

What punishment can you recall that she gave you when you did wrong?

I said earlier that there was a cane in our house called Gbenga. I got many strokes of the cane when I did wrong. It was not all about cane. She employed other means of punishment. My mother is a swift disciplinarian. If you behaved wrongly, she would punish you on the spot.

Like I said, I was a stubborn boy. There was a time in the boarding house when we had a holiday. I didn’t see my parents and it was getting late. My father was in Warri at the time. I didn’t know how to get to anywhere in Lagos except my grandparent’s house. There was no mobile phone during this period. When I didn’t see my parents, I decide to go home on my own. I entered a friend’s parent’s car and alighted at the Okota area of Lagos. I went to my grandparent’s house. That night, my mother came to school after I had left.

She looked for me. She didn’t know where I went. I later left my grandparent’s house that day to go back home. I thought my mother would hug me upon seeing me. I got home around 11.30pm and sat down. When my mother came inside, she gave me a hot slap. She disciplined me on the spot. I had to run and lock myself up inside the house (laughs). I had never seen her so furious. She never spoiled her children. She treated friends’ children the same way she treated hers. She is not biased in that aspect.

How did you get her to spend time with you despite her tight schedules?

I applaud my mother because she always had time for her children. She never took her family for granted. If she came in by 10pm, we would still sit and talk if there was anything to talk about. It’s been the same all her life, even when her schedules were tight as the deputy governor.

What is her favourite food and drink?

She likes amala and ewedu. She likes rice and plantain as well. She does not really have a favourite drink.

What is her best music?

My younger sister would be in best position to answer that. She enjoys a wide range of music. She likes dancing to several genres of music but she likes gospel music in particular.

How does she exercise?

She takes a lot of walks.

What are her likes and dislikes?

My mother cannot stand lazy people. She can’t stand people that are not straightforward. She does not like sluggish people. You have to be on your toes if you must work with her.

Does your mother’s name open doors for you?

Yes, I have benefitted immensely from her good name.

What are your mother’s worst moment and best moments?

Her best moment was the day my wife gave birth. She was at the hospital and she was joyful. My mother is a very tough woman, so things don’t easily bring her down. It’s hard for anything to break her down. I can’t remember any of her bad moments. She lost her father two years ago but she took it in good faith.

Can you share any of your mother’s most challenging periods while climbing the ladder of her career?

When she was picked as running mate to Babatunde Fashola, she didn’t expect it. That transition from point A to B was hard for her. It took her time to adapt to the political world. I knew it was hard for her because she is not a natural speaker. But she had to learn to do that well in politics. I won’t call it a challenging moment for her. I would say it was a learning period because she learnt fast.

Did she regret joining politics?

No, she has never regretted that. She has always been in politics.

What are the important things your mother told you about life?

She emphasised what a man’s role should be in his home. She talks to me about family issues and career growth. She always says one should treat people the way one would like to be treated. She talks to me about patience and that hard work leads to success.

Who are those your mother considers her role models?

She likes Oprah Winfrey a lot. She sees the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, and his wife as parent figures. She also holds the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, in high esteem. She sees Asiwaju as a father figure.

What are the things people don’t know about your mother?

She has a soft personality. She is a good dancer. She loves dancing to different genres of music. She cooked our food herself. She didn’t allow any other person cook our foods. Even when she was the deputy governor, she used to cook our meals and for my father. She was a footballer back in the days. She is also a prayer warrior. During the morning devotions, any time it was my mother’s turn to pray, I always wished I had an excuse not to be there. This is because she could spend over 30 minutes praying (laughs).

Who are your mother’s best friends?

My mother’s best friends are her children. If you ask her, she will say the same.

She still looks strong at her age. What is her secret?

She eats healthy. She is 61. She takes at least five minutes’ walk daily and drinks a lot of water.

Did she share any of her experience working with a former Lagos State Governor, Babatunde Fashola?

She learnt a lot from the former governor. She learnt that one must give 110 per cent when one occupies public office. She also learnt dedication and how to manage people effectively. There were reactions, especially from the illegal schools that were closed down, not to us directly, but through third parties. Lagos as a state is considered to be in the forefront of success.

How did you hear of her nomination?

Let me tell you a story. I got home on a Friday from school in December. My mother did not come home on time that day. The next day, she came home and left about an hour after. When she came back on Saturday evening, I noticed that there were whispers between my father and mother.

My mother’s younger brother called; so, I was suspecting that was what would happen. I just knew it. I had a strange feeling that something like that would happen. The following day, they both called us and told us about the position. My younger sister and I were speechless for minutes. The first thing that came to my mind was that I wouldn’t be able to do certain things or go to certain places anymore. There were certain limitations one had to adjust to. I was quite happy about it but my sister was scared. I congratulated my mother and my father was happy too.

Did you enjoy any special treatment from friends at the time your mother was a deputy governor?

Many of my friends came to me for help. Many of them are angry with me right now because they didn’t understand how it worked then. They felt because my mother was a deputy governor, they could get whatever they wanted. But it was not so. Like I said, my mother is a strict person. There were certain things she would not take. I guess it was where my friends misunderstood me. They thought I was a pompous person which is not true. I knew what was happening but didn’t explain to them. My phone never stopped ringing then.

How was life in the Government House?

She tried as much as possible to create time for her family. Life in the Government House was fun and choking. There was limited freedom to move around because of security issues. Life after the Government House was a peaceful transition.

Tell us your impression of governance when she became the deputy governor.

My impression changed because I saw they (government officials) had to take tough decisions. For instance, if there was a certain decision that would affect about 30 per cent of the populace, they had to take it. The people involved may not be happy but they had to do it because it was in the best interest. I saw how difficult it was to deal with people.

Would you have wished she was anything else but a politician?

She was already an accomplished teacher before becoming a deputy governor.

What would you wish to change about your mother if you had the opportunity?

There is nothing really worth changing about her. I believe she did all she could to make the best for her children.

Did she ask you to join politics?

No, she didn’t. Besides, I am not interested in politics.

Your mother has not been visible in the political arena. What does she do now?

She has devoted much of her time to her foundation; that is her priority now. She wants to make life better for women and promote girl-child education. She wants to help the less privileged. She has a passion for them.

Would you want her to rule Lagos State?

I don’t want to answer that question (laughs).

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]