I call my mum, friends when I notice new things in my baby — Amiola
An entrepreneur, Mrs. Grace Amiola, talks about what she has learnt from motherhood with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

when was your son born?

My son was born on June 20, 2017. It was surprising as I had no inkling he would arrive that day. I went about my daily activities on June 19 and until evening, I did not feel anything. I reported to the hospital around 9pm that day and was told the baby was ready to come. I was surprised as I had gone to the hospital just to report my feelings, not to have my baby. That was how the doctor told me I was not going home that night. Behold, the baby arrived in the early hours of the morning.

Describe your labour experience.

The experience was great. Thanks to God Almighty who gives strength. It was so great because I had no complications. Everything went on smoothly. Also, my husband was there and supportive all through the process and that gave me a lot of courage to pull through.

How did you choose your baby’s name?

I left the choice of the baby’s name to my husband as I never had a specific name in mind. However, we both agreed to name him Shalom Oluwafisayo and Obaloluwa, the way it resonated in our hearts.

Did you enjoy your pregnancy and what was the most difficult part of carrying a baby?

I really enjoyed pregnancy, especially the good way I was treated by everyone. Everywhere I went, even people, who never knew me, were kind to me. As for carrying a baby, the most difficult period was the first four months. I was very weak and tired. I also vomited on some occasions. I battled sickness and lost some weight also.

What type of food were you eating?

I ate lots of fruits and vegetables as prescribed by the doctor. I particularly enjoyed tiger nuts and cherry at some points. I also ate other Nigerian dishes such as amala, rice, beans, semo, yam etc. Most times, I ate according to my appetite.

Did your baby arrive at the exact date predicted by your doctor?

No, he did not arrive at the exact date predicted that I would give birth. He arrived earlier than predicted. I was surprised at the arrival of my baby because I had put my mind on the arrival date predicted by the doctor. I even thought if it would not be exact, it would be after the predicted date but he came two weeks earlier.

How did you cope with mood swings during pregnancy?

Most times, I just kept quiet and kept to myself. However, if anyone passed his or her boundary with me at that moment, I just ignored the person.

What has been your most challenging task since you became a mum?

Having time for other important things apart from child care has been challenging. Before the arrival of the baby, I had a timetable for things I wanted to achieve; even for house chores, there were plans. But now, it doesn’t work that way. All activities are now done and planned when the baby is asleep. When he is asleep, I am a bit free and can attend to other things. This has been challenging as I cannot sleep when he is awake. I make sure I use his sleeping time to catch up on what needs to be done.

What are some things you have observed in taking care of a newborn?

One major thing I would like to mention in taking care of a newborn is that you learn every day. The baby is not static; he is growing and changing in attitude and behaviour. So, it’s important to learn from other mothers. Many times, I’ve had to call my mother when I noticed any new thing. At other times, I called my friend when I see a change in the baby and don’t know what to do. In short, a mother, especially a first-time mum like me, keeps learning. I even downloaded baby care apps on my phone to ensure I get helpful tips and information.

How would you compare your life before motherhood and life as a new mother?

The difference is really clear. Before, I could go out when I wanted to. But now, every outing has to be planned with the baby in mind. I miss wearing dresses of my choice. I now need to wear clothes that make breastfeeding comfortable.

How do you balance motherhood and your career?

For now, I am on a short break. I would resume work in the corporate world in a few months. However, I still engage in volunteering work.

What part of your body changed during pregnancy that you didn’t like?

My cheeks changed. I was really fortunate that I didn’t put on too much weight. I could still wear most of my clothes even while pregnant. Also, I was not too comfortable with my protruding belly towards the delivery date.

What advice did your mother or relatives give you about motherhood that helped you?

One major piece of advice my mother gave me is to see motherhood as a blessing. She said I should always see it as a God-given opportunity to nurture a life. Once you start seeing it as a burden, it becomes so. Having that at the back of my mind has kept me going.

Some new mothers are usually overprotective of their children. Is that your case?

As for me, I don’t believe in overindulging children. Likewise, I don’t also support being careless with them. I stand for balance. For example, when I had my baby, there was a major vaccine we couldn’t get until after some days. As everyone came around to congratulate us, they all wanted to carry him but I did not allow them. People go around with all sorts of things. One has to understand that the baby is vulnerable. It is important to be firm and careful when the need arises but one needs to ensure balance.

What experiences would you want to create for your child?

I hope to create an unforgettable and worthwhile experience. I hope to be his mother, friend, confidant and playmate.

How is your husband coping as a first-time father?

He is really doing well. He helps out with the baby many times and in the house generally also.

How many hours of sleep do you get at night?

It depends; but it is mostly between two and four hours. However, it is getting better as the baby grows.

What would you have loved to do differently while pregnant if you had the opportunity?

I would shop more wisely. As a pregnant woman, there will always be persuasion to buy many things you would later discover you don’t need and end up not using.

Famous quote

Having kids — the responsibility of rearing good, kind, ethical, responsible human beings — is the biggest job anyone can embark on — American writer, Maria Shriver

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]