We’re surprised I was two-week pregnant two weeks after wedding — Akinbode
An accountant, Mrs. Oluwakemi Akinbode, shares her experience as a mother with GBENGA ADENIJI

When did you know you were pregnant?

We married on June 11, 2016. I got to know I was pregnant two weeks after our wedding when I noticed some unusual changes in my body.

How did your husband react when you told him you felt you were pregnant?

I told my husband about it and he said that we should go for a pregnancy test. We went to a pharmacy and bought a pregnancy test kit. The next day, we were eager to do the test to know the result. We tested it with early morning urine and it was positive. Afterwards, we went to a family friend who owns a medical laboratory to confirm our finding. We were told the pregnancy was two weeks old.

We were so happy when the result showed that I was two weeks pregnant because we didn’t know pregnancy could come so fast like it did in my case.

What was your labour experience like?

The labour experience was very traumatic and excruciatingly painful. It was also unbearable and severe. But the joy of it was that both mother and baby were safe.

How did you handle each of the trimesters?

In the first trimester, I was very careful in doing things because I didn’t want anything to happen to the pregnancy. Friends, doctors and others advised me not to do any stressful work. It was not easy at all during the time as I kept on complaining of cold. I also had an appetite for food. I ate most times.

In the second trimester, I did not experience much troubles but I only ate a lot. It was during the last trimester that I was unable to sleep very well. I also fell several times.

When were you delivered of your baby?

When I went to the hospital for antenatal, the doctor checked me and noticed that my blood pressure was a bit high. He then said I would be admitted to step down the blood pressure in order not to lead to serious medical conditions. I called my husband and told him what the doctor said. I also told him to bring all the things I would need in the hospital. After I was treated, I was told that I could give birth any moment from that period. On the fourth day, we were anxious and I was very eager to see my long-awaited baby arrive but it was not easy because the pain was much. I became worried. I laboured for 16 hours. The trauma was indescribable. Eventually, at 6am on the fifth day, which was March 14, 2017, the baby arrived safely.

What did he weigh at birth?

He weighed 3.5kg.

What name did you give him?

We named him Daniel, Iseoluwa, Apotieri, Oluwatimilehin, Oluwasegunfunmi, Jedediah, Oluwapamilerin, Ayomide and Ayobami.

What food did you crave during pregnancy?

I took peppery soup. My husband complained that there was much pepper in the soup but to me, there was nothing peppery in it. Ewedu (Jews’s mallow) with semovita was my favourite during the period. I also ate rice, wheat, etc.

Is your baby’s gender what you wanted?

We prayed to have a boy and God did it. Praise God!

What has changed about your looks and sleeping habit since you gave birth?

I am more beautiful now than when I was pregnant. I have a wonderful appearance now. My sleeping pattern has also changed significantly. I now have more time to sleep. I didn’t sleep well while I was pregnant. The baby didn’t allow me to sleep well.

Who do you consult anytime you noticed any worrying thing about your baby?

My husband has doctors and other health workers as friends. So, he usually consults them whenever we noticed anything usual about the child.

What habits have you noticed in your baby?

He laughs anytime he sees familiar faces. He is usually not friendly with people he has not seen often unless they try to play with him. I understand him so much. I know whenever he wants to sleep or is feeling hungry.

Who does the baby resemble more between you and your husband?

My baby resembles me more than his father. He only takes after his father in complexion.

How do you intend to combine life as a worker, wife and mother?

Combining work with the home and motherhood has not been easy but I am coping by the grace of God. It is a matter of commitment and time management.

Does your baby prefer breast milk to infant formula?

My baby prefers breast milk to infant formula. Supporting breast milk with infant formula has not been easy at all because he doesn’t want to take any other thing. He only wants breast milk.

How has your husband been assisting after the arrival of your baby?

My husband has been assisting me a lot since the arrival of the baby. He helps in home chores like cleaning, washing and cooking at times whenever he has the time.

Has your baby’s arrival shifted your attention from your husband?

It is natural for one to shift attention to the baby but I try as much as possible to fulfil my duties to him as a wife.

What do you do anytime the child cries at night?

I don’t want him to cry at night. So, I try as much as possible to pacify and attend to him. Usually, whenever he wakes up at night, he demands breast milk and I don’t waste time to give it to him.

What prepared you for motherhood?

Motherhood is what every woman should prepare for. I prepared for the experience and that is why by the grace of God, I am basking in joys of motherhood.

How many children do you hope to have?

It is God that determines the number of children that one has. Man can only wish but it is God who completes it. However, one has to plan the number of babies one desires in tandem with the current economic situation in the country.

Can you narrate any moment with your baby that made you proud as a mother?

I am usually proud to be a mother anytime I dress him and he looks cute and beautiful. Whenever I look at him in such a moment, I smile at him and in his innocent state, he smiles back. I am always thrilled with that.

What has been your most challenging period as a mother?

My most challenging period as a mother has been sleeping late at night and keeping awake all night to breastfeed my baby and waking up early to cook and take care of my family. Although it has not been easy, God has been giving me the grace to cope.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]