Protecting your kids against home help abuse
MOTUNRAYO JOEL writes on ways parents can guard their children against home help abuse

Most busy parents, especially those in chaotic cities like Lagos, rely on home help to assist with household chores and cater for their children.

Over the years, some parents have come to see a home help as ‘necessary evil’, while others feel that employing one is akin to dining with the devil.

It has been two years since a mother of three, Mrs. Maria Ekpo, engaged a home help.

“I am done with home help. I would rather do my house chores myself than to get a home help. I see a home help as evil,” she said.

Narrating her experience with home help, Ekpo said her last child, Raymond, 6, almost broke his arm after the home help, living with them, pushed him down the staircase.

“I have had bad experiences with home help in the past, but what happened to my son broke my heart. I cried for two days,” she said.

On the day Raymond was pushed down the staircase, Ekpo said she had scolded her home help because she piled up dirty clothes and failed to wash the bathroom she used.

She stated, “I only smacked her on the head. I didn’t do anything else that warranted her to maltreat my son. I was in the market when I got a call from my security guard that something bad had happened to my son.”

Ekpo said her son was alone at home with the home help when the incident happened.

She added that if her first two children were around, they would have prevented her from injuring their younger brother.

“I’m not ready to get another home help because I don’t know how I will protect my children from abuse,” she said.

A psychologist, Dr. Ayodeji Folusho, said parents could protect their child against home help abuse by not making the home help feel rejected in the family. “A parent who constantly beats the home help or treats him or her badly, but showers love on his or her children, is doing a wrong thing. The home help is probably going to develop resentment towards his or her employer’s children,” he said.

Folusho warned parents to avoid making their home help feel as if they were not humans.

According to him, the fact that they are domestic workers doesn’t mean they are not humans.

“These are people who will be with your children all the time. So, you need to show them love. Do your best and leave the rest to God,” he said.

Like Ekpo, a mother of four children, Mrs. Bimbo Obadare, said she had yet to engage a home help because of her inability to protect her children from abuse.

“I have many friends whose kids suffered in the hands of home help. The parents failed to protect their children from abuse. I don’t want my children or myself to be victim of home help abuse,” she added.

A bank worker, Mrs. Jane Ebube, recalled an experience she had with a home help she employed sometime ago.

Ebube stated, “On getting back from work one day, I heard my son screaming. When I got into my house, I found him lying on the ground alone.

“I saw blood stains on his shirt, and marks on his back as if someone scratched him. I later discovered that my home help used a hanger to scratch my son’s back. I scolded him in the morning before I left home for something he did wrong. It was as if he vented his anger on my son.

“Surprisingly, my son tried covering up for him. He told me that he fell at school, but when I called his teacher, she said it wasn’t true. When my home help eventually arrived, I confronted him that he was responsible for the injury on my son’s back. He denied the allegation.

“Till today, my son is yet to get over the trauma. He has become reserved and fearful. I regret getting a home help.”

Speaking on the development, a child psychologist, Prof. Omotayo Adepoju, urged parents to observe their children’s behaviours.

She said any child being abused in any way would definitely exhibit some strange behaviours.

“Eighty-five per cent of cases of abuse involving children are done by people we know. It’s important that parents employ adults to serve as home help and nannies. This should be done through an agent so that they will be traceable to somebody,” she said.

Also, Folusho urged parents to have concrete information about their home help before employment.

“One can’t really know the inner character of a person by mere looking at the person’s face. It’s important that parents carry out background checks on any home help they plan to employ,” he said.

An Associate Professor of Development and Clinical Psychology, Dr. Mosun Akinsola, advised parents to visit the nearest police station to find out if the home help they plan to employ had committed any criminal offence in the past.

She added that they should ensure that the person had a proper and adequate guarantor, advising them not to rely on the information given to them by agents.

“Another important thing: never leave your children alone with a home help, especially if the person hasn’t spent up to six months with you,” she said.

Akinsola called on parents to use hidden cameras in homes without the knowledge of the home help.

“For mothers, listen to your motherly instincts. If something about the home help is disturbing you or doesn’t seem quite right, don’t ignore it. You should feel comfortable with someone that is taking care of your child. If you don’t trust that nanny, then you should look for a replacement immediately,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]