It’s more expensive raising female children — Nobert Young
Nollywood actor, Norbert Young, talks about his fatherhood journey with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood means a lot of things to me. It means continuation of mankind; an assigned role from God; procreation and nurturing the next generation.

When did you become a father?

I became a father in 2000 when I had my first child. Seeing my own daughter for the first time brought tears to my eyes.

Was your child gender what you wished for?

Yes, I wished for my first child to be a female and God granted my heart’s desire. In my family, the first child is a female and that brought sanity to the family. When a female is the first child, there is peace, harmony and love in a family. Women are more organised. I am glad I had a female as a first child.

How did you feel when you held your daughter for the first time?

It is a feeling one cannot express. It is a wonderful feeling. If one didn’t believe God exists prior to the birth of one’s child, mere holding one’s child for the first time is enough to convince one that God exists. I really don’t know how to express the way I felt on that day. I was so glad to become a father.

Did you witness the birth of any of your children?

No, I didn’t. I wasn’t around when they were born.

How many children do you have?

I have three children – all females. My first child is 17 years old; the second is 13 while the last child is nine.

How do you manage your roles as a father and an actor?

I take both roles in my strides. There is nothing particular I do. When I’m not at work, I’m at home with my family. I provide as much financial support as I can for my family. I give them moral and physical support too. I love to chat with my children. In fact, I relate with them on friendship basis. I am close to all my children. We play together. I am a playful person. My children love that side of me.

You have only female children. Do you wish you had a male child?

There is no difference. I grew up in a house with five females and three males. Females have always played an upper role in my life. Having only female children is not a problem for me. To even think of the fact that my sisters took care of my parents makes me happier. Anything a boy can do, a girl can do better. That is my belief. I am not saying that boys don’t show love but girls show more love while caring for their parents. A female’s touch is different from a male’s touch.

How do you discipline your children?

I live by example. I am a disciplined person like my father. My children have studied me and know what I like and what I don’t like. Sometimes, I hear them say ‘papa won’t like this.’ They call me papa, which is what I call my father. My children see the way I react to situations. But I don’t beat my children neither do I shout at them. I only punish them whenever they misbehave. Sometimes, you realise you have no reason to be harsh on your children. My children understand my principles. They have studied the way I live my life. They know I don’t interfere in other people’s business. Whenever they go out of line, I correct them.

How do you advise them about the opposite sex?

My wife handles that area. It is only when an issue is reported to me that I tell them to be careful about the opposite sex. I constantly tell them to ask questions so they won’t make mistakes.

Do your children watch your movies?

I know they watch my movies but I don’t know if they have a favourite.

Do you do school runs?

Yes, I do. I also help them with their homework.

Is any of your children showing interest in acting?

My last child is really interested in singing. She does a lot of solo acts.

What training did you get from your father which is useful in correcting your children?

I always advise them to be disciplined. My father was a headmaster. I also tell them to mind their business and keep their mouths shut if their opinion is not sought.

You grew up among females. Does that make you soft as a father?

Naturally I am soft-hearted. I prefer a happy and calm environment. But whenever my children misbehave, I discipline them. I enjoy peace and love in a home.

How do you relax?

I watch television or sleep. I also love to sit with my friends and chat about things generally.

Do you take your family out for bonding?

Yes. We love to go swimming. I enjoy swimming with my daughters.

What is your major challenge as a father?

Once one becomes a parent, one never stops to worry about one’s children. I like the saying “If you never thought it was possible to love someone more than yourself, then have a child.” I worry about my children and constantly pray that they don’t get into trouble.

Is it harder raising a female child compared to a male child?

I think it is more expensive raising female children because of their needs. While I was in secondary school, I always got angry that my sister’s allowance was more than mine. Whenever I reacted, my mother told me to keep shut because my sister was a girl. It didn’t make sense to me until many years later. My sister’s needs were more than mine. It is more expensive raising a female child.

Your wife is in the same profession as you. How do you cope?

Life is normal; there is nothing strange about it. We assist each other with our roles. I don’t interfere with her role in movies also.

What women’s role do you occasionally take up at home?

If you mean cooking and cleaning, I believe those are roles for anyone in a home. I do all that. I cook, sweep, and help in cleaning my house. I did all that when I was young.

Do you have a favourite food?

No, I don’t, but I cook for my family. I make breakfast, lunch and dinner.

How do you appreciate your wife for her roles at home?

My wife is a strong woman. She fills in the gap whenever I am not available. We complement each other. I am grateful to have her.

How do you celebrate her birthday?

There is no particular style. We sing for her and cut the cake. But when she turned 50, we threw a big party for her.

How did you propose to her?

I can’t remember the details of how I proposed to her, but I didn’t go down on bended knee. I am not one that follows tradition.

Did you nurse any fears before you became a father?

I have always known that I would become a father and it came later than I expected. But I nursed fears about losing someone. I also nursed fears about being able to take care of my children. I had these feelings after my children were born. I didn’t marry early.

At what age did you marry?

I got married when I was 40 years old. I didn’t intentionally wait that long. I made an attempt at getting married but it didn’t work out, so I decided to wait till I was convinced.

Whenever any of your children is ill, how do you react?

I get really scared even when it is as trivial as a cold. I feel it may lead to something else. I don’t like to see anyone suffer especially my children. When I am ill, I don’t get scared.

Have you always wanted to be an actor?

If I am 58 years old, for more than half of that age, I have always wanted to be an actor. I began to pursue a career in acting at a young age.

How do you reward your children’s good deeds?

I take them out and buy them something they have always wanted, though I don’t buy them that particular thing because of their achievements. All I do is to praise them for their hard work.

Are you the kind of father that tells his children he topped his class as a pupil?

No, I don’t say that. What if they look at my results, they will say daddy told a lie. All I say is that I was brilliant in school.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]