Rest of mind is my wife’s best gift to me – Seyi Law
Popular comedian, Oluwaseyitan Lawrence Aletile, aka Seyi Law, shares his lessons of fatherhood with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood simply means responsibility. It means to love, care and protect one’s child. Performing any of these responsibilities goes beyond one’s biological children. It entails taking care of people younger than you. In this sense, I can confidently say that I became a father long before I had my biological child.

At what age did you become a father and how did you feel holding your first child?

I was 33 and three months old when I became a father. I could have become a biological father before that time. I strongly believe one should have children early enough. I got married early enough but having a child is not always within one’s power. It is a divine arrangement and God gave me a child at the appropriate time. My wife lost an eight-month pregnancy long ago. That was what accounted for the delay. If someone has the resources, I think it is important to be a father early. I think that by the time one is 30, he or she should have completed the circle of childbearing. By the time one is 50, one’s child should be at least 20 years old. It gives one pleasure and rest.

Where were you when your daughter was born?

I was in Nigeria but my wife was delivered of the baby in the United States of America. I was a bit worried because of the experience. I was prayerful because she had to undergo a caesarean section. My wife was in the hospital for almost 20 days before the delivery because of complications. I was apprehensive and prayerful. After she gave birth, I later travelled to the US to visit them. I remember that when I carried her for the first time, she was so tiny. The feelings were awesome. I was teary and joyful. It’s a feeling that I can’t describe.

Did you have the gender you preferred?

I made up my mind to have three children. If all are girls, I have no problem with that. The most important thing is not to have hermaphrodite as a child.

What did you wish someone had told you before your first child was born?

I had been reading about fatherhood for a long time. When I was in secondary school, I read a lot of books. Like I said, after my secondary school education, I had to fend for my younger ones. Working after secondary school education gave me a sense of responsibility. There was really nothing new to learn about fatherhood because I was fully ready for that phase. I was only waiting for it to happen.

How do you communicate with your child since she is still a baby?

My daughter, Tiwaloluwa, is one year and two months old. I try to have more of ‘cuddling and carrying’ moments with her. I try to make her pronounce some words. I tell her, ‘How are you?’ and She has learnt to say ‘fine.’ Sometimes, I sing, “If you are happy and you know, say TY.’ She responds with a howl, ‘Tee Waiii.’

She is quite smart. I call her an adult baby because I see a maturity beyond the age in her. We get along well. Up till now, she has not learnt to say ‘mummy.’ But it’s amazing that she can pronounce ‘daddy.’ That hurts her mother but I am pretty happy about that.

What do you avoid doing now that you are a father?

I have learnt to be more patient. I tend to avoid words that we used jokingly in the home because of the child.

How close were you to your father as a child?

I don’t have a strong relationship with my father. I was born in Gabon and came back to Nigeria when I was six. They left Nigeria for Gabon even before I was born. My mother travelled to Gabon for the first time in 1965. She probably lived all her life there. I also attended a boarding school quite early; so, I didn’t spend time with him. When I left the boarding school, I lived with my uncle in Nigeria because my parents were in Gabon. My father didn’t really make any contributions to my education. My mother shouldered all the responsibilities.

I never enjoyed a close relationship with my father. I am close to my mother. Now that I am older, I have to take up the responsibility of being a good son. My father is in my village while my mother is in Lagos. Thank God my mother is a forgiving woman. She taught us to be forgiving; so, we hold no grudges against my father. But the story is what it is.

How did this frosty relationship with your father affect you?

It depends on how one sees it. One can choose to live with the negative or positive aspects. I decided to dwell on the positive side and do better by being a good father. That is probably the reason I am close to my daughter now. I don’t have a bond with my father. When I visit him, there is really nothing much to talk about. There is no experience to relive together. I may not talk to my father for long and I don’t think it’s a big deal or awkward because it has always been like that for a long time. Trying to change that may be difficult. These days, I ensure that I am closer to my daughter. I try to build that bond of love by talking to her. I want her to be able to confide in me. From my primary to secondary school years, I was in the boarding house. The people I had around me were fellow pupils. We had little interactions with adults. This has helped me to be independent. That childhood experience makes us treat people better.

Sometimes, sending a home help on an errand makes me feel like I am treating them badly, even though that is what they have been called to do. Sometimes, I say, “I hope you won’t feel bad that I am sending you on an errand?” This experience has brought out the compassionate side of me.

What was life in Gabon when you were there?

I left Gabon when I was six; so, I have vague memories of the country. Gabon is a fine country. There was no power outage there. When I was in Gabon, I didn’t know that no person was known as Father Christmas. My mother usually told us every December 24 to place our shoes by the door before going to bed. In the morning of the following day, we saw gifts in them. She told us Father Christmas brought it for us. It was when I was 12 that I knew Father Christmas never existed as a particular person. Gabon was also fun.

What part of your life was the most challenging?

The most challenging part of my life was the period I completed secondary school and I could not pursue my plan to study Medicine. It has turned out to be my greatest blessing because I might not have been in the comedy industry. Every other challenge has been a learning curve for me. But I have always believed that I would be successful.

What would you have become if you were not a comedian?

I would have become a medical doctor. I remember that I got an offer twice to study medicine abroad. My mother could not afford the fees. The most important thing is the fact that I am doing well now.

What do you say to men and boys without father figures?

It’s a difficult thing if one does not have a father. Not all of us are emotionally stable to bear that. Sometimes, I wish I had other people I could confide in while growing up. Most times, I retreated to myself for support. Such people need to read books. Also, they need to talk to themselves. That has really helped me.

As a busy man, what are some of the challenges of fatherhood?

I have a wife who is quite homely and trustworthy. When you have a wife who can hold the home front well, one has little or nothing to worry about. I get home sometimes and realise that my daughter has learnt a new word. That is the work of a mother.

Do you share your jokes at home with your wife?

I don’t do that. I love going on stage and do comedy spontaneously. That brings out the best in me. I always advise that one should get early to an event. This would afford one the opportunity to see the people as they come in and be inspired. It’s always good to have a plan. When you get to the event early enough, you are able to know the people you would be addressing.

If there’s one lesson you want your kids to take from you through life, what would it be?

One should know that life is all about the memories we create. One has to deliberately create good memories that one can remember and that people can remember one for. If you don’t create good memories, as you get old, you would have nothing good to remember.

How do you appreciate your wife?

I do more of gift-sharing, expressing my love in words and kissing.

In what ways have you been able to achieve balance as a successful comedian, husband and father?

I have been able to distinguish between these three roles. When I leave the stage, I let the flamboyance there. When I am at home, I am more of a serious person. One must set a boundary between the roles.

How has your wife appreciated you as a husband?

The most important gift my wife has given me is rest of mind (laughs). The fact that after I finish my work, I can retire to my bed peacefully is the biggest gift a man can get. Some people have trouble going back home. My wife gives me peace of mind and she is my best-kept secret.

Can you share any funny experience of fatherhood?

One of the things that amuse fathers is the fact that when they try to carry a baby, the wives think they want to break the baby’s bones. That happens to me too. I hear words like these from my wife, “Don’t carry her like that,” “Use your hands to support her head.” I think it’s a general experience for men. The mothers think they are the best person that can take care of the child. Another funny experience is that when I want to touch my wife at night, the baby starts crying.

In the African setting, some believe that fathers are to provide for the home while the wives take care of the home. What’s your take on this?

I think family life has gone beyond fathers providing for the home. It’s a dual role for the couple. Either of the couples can do any of the roles. When I return from work, my wife may have been too tired to do some things at home. I have had to assist while she relaxes. It is not an easy job taking care of a child. One thing men should do is to allow their babies sleep with them and their wives together. The men would be able to appreciate their wives when they realise how many times the wives have to attend to the babies’ cries in the night. Both roles can be played by either of them.

Have you cooked for your family before?

I am a great cook; my wife said that many times. My cousins and I used to cook together as children.

Do you want your kids to follow in your career path?

Children should be allowed to choose their career paths with guidance. I would like my daughter to take an interest in medicine. It is still a long time for her to decide. I think parents should find out where the child’s interest lies and guide them.

How do you intend to discipline your child?

I think you can spank a child to correct him or her. You can also correct a child with other forms of discipline. I think it’s good to talk with them.

What lessons did you learn from your row with Kemi Olunloyo on your child’s weight?

One must protect his family. The experience has taught me that in life, we should fight to win. She (Olunloyo) has become one of the biggest fans of my daughter. We must embrace peace. Every father must learn to always protect their children.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]