My wife and I settle quarrels via text messages — Wiliki
Popular reggae singer, Orits Wiliki, and his wife, Becky, have been married for 22 years. They share their love story with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

How did you meet your husband?

Becky: I met him at an audition. A friend of mine told me he was having an audition for female backup vocalists and I followed him to the place.

What attracted you to each other?

Wiliki: There wasn’t actually that immediate attraction. I developed an interest in her as we got along. Our first meeting was at the audition. I needed a female backup for my band and she was one of the girls that turned up.

Becky: I had been a fan of his music before we met. Let me say it was strictly a business meeting the very first time.

How long did your courtship last?

Wiliki: We dated for about three years or so. I am not quite sure.

How did he propose to you?

Becky: He proposed the normal way. It was shocking to me when he did because I wasn’t expecting it. There were many girls hanging around him then. I remember he used to joke about marriage, but I didn’t really know he was serious. He is a very jovial person.

How long did it take you to accept his proposal?

Becky: I accepted his proposal but wasn’t too sure because of my faith. I am a Jehovah Witness while he is a Baptist and a rastaman. I thought about the hurdles ahead to cross. I knew I love him but was waiting to see how it would all play out. I said to myself that if it was the will of Jehovah, nothing would be impossible.

At what point did you decide to marry?

Wiliki: We decided to marry three years into the relationship. We did our traditional wedding in 1994 and the white wedding held the following year.

Did you fear he might break your heart?

Becky: Every real woman will have that at the back of her mind. Somehow, even after you said yes, it would cross your mind. But it shouldn’t be a mindset. Everything in life is a risk.

How have you succeeded in staying together despite the rate of divorce among celebrity couples?

Wiliki: First of all, I will attribute our marital success to the grace of God. We cannot claim to be champions because marriage is an institution where you don’t graduate. Marriage is like a building being built by the husband and the wife. Both of them must work very hard to make the kind of structure they desire. Their focus must be on the goal, whether in the sun or in the rain. There are moments in a marriage where you ask yourself if it is worth the huge sacrifice. But despite the tribulations, trials and temptations, the only thing you will fall back on is love. If you marry for the right reasons and love is your foundation, you are likely to have a happy home. But above all, the couple must be God-fearing.

Becky: First of all, I believe it is the grace of God. Secondly, if you marry your friend, the marriage will be strong. Also, let love be the foundation of your marriage.

How do you manage misunderstandings?

Wiliki: In fact, there is no hour that we are together that she wouldn’t get on my nerves. But over the years, those quarrels are actually the daily ingredients that make our union grow. It depends on how we resolve them. For example, my wife and I are the same spirit in two bodies. She is a very stubborn woman. I am sure she will say that of me too. We settle most of our quarrels through text messaging because we always interrupt each other when trying to make a point. We find it difficult to stay apart because neither of us is complete when we stay apart, especially when duty calls.

Becky: That guy (my husband) gets on my nerves all the time. We are two of a kind. Some people see us as comedians when we get into some arguments. He can be very stubborn. But he is fun to be with and I love him.

How do you assist in his music career?

Becky: I do the much I can. I also sing and I am an actress. I used to make his hair and costumes; that was in the early days. But now with the kids and many other things to look after, it’s not easy. But I still coordinate his band.

Did your families oppose your decision to marry get married to someone who is a celebrity?

Becky: Like I said before, my family members are Jehovah witnesses and my faith frown on such union or relationship. It is not a common thing for a Witness to marry outside her faith. It wasn’t easy for us at all, especially my father. But like I said before, if it was Jehovah’s wish, nothing can be impossible.

Wiliki: Unfortunately, my father left us early. He was not around when I was getting married. My mum at the time already said I was wasting time because she wanted her grandchildren.

Which Nigerian meals do you prepare for your wife?

Wiliki: I do almost all food. I am a proud cook. I love the kitchen.

Can you share a funny encounter you both had?

Becky: My husband can be very romantic sometimes. He bought me a beautiful gift but I didn’t know. I woke up that morning and saw a note on my pillow asking me to hurry up and open my wardrobe for a special gift. I rushed there only to get another note which says, “Sorry my dear, what you are looking for is not here but check inside one of the pots in the kitchen for a clue.” By this time, I was already sweating. I rushed to the kitchen and searched the pots and found yet another note saying, “Oops, please go ask the gateman. He has the clue.” By this time, I was already getting tired.

I went to the gateman and he gave me another note. The note said I should go back to my wardrobe to get the gift. I went back there. I searched and turned everywhere upside down. Then I found a sleek phone (laughs).

Wiliki: The second time I entered a Molue in Lagos was the day my wife visited me during the SAP riot era. When she visited me that day, there were no means of transportation. Only few vehicles were on the road. I accompanied her to the bus stop and a saw cab that she would board to Ikeja. From Ikeja, she would get another cab. Inside the cab were two men.

Immediately the car drove off, I started having some strange feelings about the car and the two men inside. I asked myself if I had not made a mistake. I did not write down the cab’s number plate. There was no GSM then to know if she was fine. At about 8pm, I couldn’t stop worrying. I got a fez cap and a dark sunshade to disguise.

I joined a Molue going to Ojuelegba to connect Ajegunle. I got to her home at about 1am. Everyone was shocked to see me until I explained myself. It was really funny.

How do you combine your roles as a father, musician and husband?

Wiliki: I have defined my priorities over time. First of all, I cannot be a celebrity or a star before my wife, children, brothers and sisters. I can only be a celebrity to my fans and admirers. I know I have to be humble. Moreover, I love Jah and He leads my path.

How do you handle his fans?

Becky: I met him with his fans; both males and females, even before we got married. I am also into showbiz and I understand how the industry works. I also have my fans too. Above all, I am a very sociable person without any complex. I am cool with them.

How do you make up after a disagreement?

Wiliki: Since we assume we are right in our individual arguments, we apologise to each other or “just bone.” I do it in style some other ways by just sharing a champagne or wine with her. Anybody can apologise first depending on the level of ‘Gbege’ (trouble).

Becky: It depends on who causes the trouble. I am the woman, so I initiate the moves sometimes.

Tell us a remarkable story about your marriage.

Wiliki: The most remarkable story will be that of waiting eight years for our baby. That was a hell of a period. If not for the wisdom of God, any man can stray. Thank God for His mercy that we overcame.

What lessons has marriage taught you in life?

Wiliki: Marriage has taught me that my family is the best even when we drink garri. I have realised that you are better than some families you look up to because there are many who are also looking up to you and in fact envying you.

Becky: Marriage has taught me to be humble and nice to people. It has also taught me that all that glitters is not gold. Marriage has taught me that the rich also cry.

What pet names do you call each other?

Wiliki: Mama and papa.

Why do you think most celebrity marriages crumble?

Wiliki: There are many reasons marriages collapse. Marrying for the wrong reason is the most common.

Becky: Marriages crumble for different reasons but I can only advise people to marry their true friends. They should marry for the right reason and be God-fearing.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]