Parents must speak with one voice to raise godly children — McPherson VC
The Vice-Chancellor, McPherson University, Mowe, Ogun State, Prof. Adeniyi Agunbiade, shares his fatherhood journey with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

Can you recall your most memorable experience as a father?

As a father, my experiences have been memorable, ranging from when my first son, Fola, was born and seeing him grow to become a medical doctor and a father, to when my only daughter, Esther, was born, to mention but a few. I earnestly look forward to next month when she would be called to the Bar. I have had a handful of memorable experiences that I would cherish for a very long time. I feel privileged to have and watch them grow up. As a father, I learn a lot of things from them.

What unique things did you do as a father?

I am proud to say that I raised godly children. I made sure they all got the very best of education as I had, so they could excel in life. I think the education of children must be of paramount importance to fathers. A father must have a sacrificial heart too; he must be able to go the extra mile to please his children. Whenever I look at my children, I smile. They bring me much joy. Every day, I bless God for giving them to me.

How would you say fatherhood has changed you?

It has made me to have a sacrificial heart. I do not think about myself only before I take any decision. I also think about my family and how it would affect them. Fatherhood is challenging, intriguing and also exciting. It has changed my thinking pattern because I must have answers to all questions. My daughter and sons always have questions to ask about one thing or the other. I dare not say I don’t have an answer to their questions. To them, their father, being a professor, must have answers to life’s endless questions. On a lighter note, I know many fathers who had to adjust their lifestyles because of their kids. I believe fathers should be celebrated. Fatherhood is an awesome responsibility. Fatherhood, like motherhood, is a great experience. But it is an experience that one should go through prayerfully. I always say that fatherhood calms one. Alongside that comes tolerance and forgiveness. You can’t be a father if you can’t forgive your children or indeed yourself.

What would you have loved to do differently?

I would have loved to spend more quality time with my children. At the early stage of my marriage, as a member of the academic staff at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State, I was not always at home except on weekends. I was not opportune to attend some of my children’s school events when they were in nursery and primary schools. If I could turn back the hand of the clock, I would like to spend more time with them. Family is everything to me. I sincerely give ample credit to my wife at this juncture. She stood in for me during the time I wasn’t available. She understood that being absent physically does not mean total absence. She kept me abreast of happenings at home and in their schools.

Some African fathers prefer the boy child to the girl child. What is your view on this?

I believe in gender equality. All thanks to God for blessing me with three boys and a girl. I am happy to say that all my children received the same amount of love from me, coupled with quality education. Fathers must love all their children equally and unconditionally. What a male child can do, a female child can also do. It is simply lack of understanding that will make one to prefer a certain sex to the other. Children are God’s gifts. We must see them as such.

Are you the type of father that influences his children’s career choices?

Not at all, I am an animal scientist and only one of my children follows in my career path. One is a doctor while the remaining two made the legal profession their choices. I respected their choices and constantly gave them necessary support and blessing.

My first son, Fola, is a medical doctor; my second child, Martins, is an animal scientist and lecturer like me; my third and fourth children – John and Esther – are legal practitioners.

A father should be one who can positively influence the children that God has given him to take care of. At a certain stage, they will gain independence. But before that time, you must have tried in your own way to instill in them the right values

How do you balance being a father, husband and vice-chancellor?

The roles are different from each other. At McPherson University, I am the vice-chancellor, while at home I am a loving husband to my beautiful wife, Adebusola, and a caring father to my lovely children. I do not allow any of these roles to interfere with the other or let the challenges of one reflect on the other. My role as vice-chancellor ends in the office and when I am at home, it is a different ball game.

Were you strict on the pocket money you gave your children while they were growing up?

I won’t say I was strict with them on how I gave my children money. One thing I did all the time was to make sure that the needs of my children were met and I did not give room for frivolous spending. I taught them early in life the value of investment and the need to pursue excellence in all their endeavours.

Can you remember the lowest money you gave any of them?

I guess that should be 50 kobo, but it was a lot of money back then in the mid-80s.

How did you discipline your children?

Once in a while, I employed corporal punishment lovingly but most times, I corrected any child who misbehaved with words of advice.

How tough was the task of raising children?

Raising my children was not tough because the Bible says the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom. I instilled the fear of God in them, I still guide and encourage them in the word of God and disciplined them when needed. The journey has been smooth. In addition, my better half is also firm – we speak with one voice while disciplining our children. Parents must speak with one voice to raise godly children. Even if you have a wonderful career and your children don’t turn out well, it will be the greatest pain for the rest of your life. I try to encourage my children to value relationships built on trust and mutual respect. And to value those who respect their dignity.

Do you help your wife with house chores?

Yes, I do. I enjoy assisting in ensuring that the rooms are tidy, especially now that all our children are grown up. We are helpmate.

How do you spoil her?

We do find time for recreation and relaxation. I frequently surprise her with unsolicited gifts.

You have been married for a long time. What is the secret of a successful marriage?

We have been married for 33 years and that isn’t too long. It feels as if we both met yesterday. I believe that to have a successful marriage one must know that God laid the foundation of the institution called marriage. To have a successful marriage, you need to involve God at the early stage of your marriage. God must be at the centre of your marriage. With all these, coupled with absolute trust, submissiveness and unflinching love for yourselves and faith in God, one is bound to have a happy marriage.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]