At birth, I could not believe my son was mine — Omoboni
A businesswoman, Funmilayo Omoboni, talks about her motherhood journey with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

What is your son’s name?

Oluwafunminiyi Ebenezer Omoboni. He was born on October 28, 2016.

When did you get married?

I got married in May 2001.

Is he your first child?

Yes, he is.

How did you remain strong through the years before you gave birth?

It wasn’t an easy period but I had faith that one day, God would answer me. I don’t pray for any woman to be in the state I was. I had to remain strong and not lose faith in God. Each month that passed felt like a year. Sadly, we live in a country that makes women, who are yet to be mothers, feel bad about their situation. It was a trying period. There were times people who know about my situation made me feel bad about what I was going through. I am glad that phase is over.

What efforts did you make during the waiting period?

Most people would have expected me to visit an In Vitro Fertilisation clinic but I didn’t; it never crossed my mind. I focused more on prayer and fast. I knew deep within me that there was nothing wrong with me. I chose to have faith in God. I don’t have money to spend on IVF procedures. Whenever I prayed to God about my desire to have a child, I had a peace of mind afterwards. I believe that was a confirmation that I needed to have patience and wait on God. At some point, I turned a deaf ear to people’s comments about my situation. I needed to do that to remain focused.

Were you bothered by your age?

Yes, I was. I am 47 and the thought of not being able to conceive at 40 was loud and clear in my head. But I constantly encouraged myself. I didn’t allow my age to deter me. I kept telling myself that God is not moved by age. But at some point during the years of waiting, I almost gave up. I was so closing to resigning to fate. I felt it was too late for me to become a mother considering my age. I almost got fed up trying to conceive.

At that point, a chapter in the book of Luke 1:37 flashed through my mind. It says with God nothing shall be impossible. At that point, I felt strengthened and energised. I kept telling myself that I serve a God who does the impossible. Today, whenever I think about that period, I smile because I was close to giving up. I don’t know what would have happened if I had given up on becoming a mother. It is really important for one to remain positive no matter what one is facing.

How did you know you were pregnant?

I didn’t know I was pregnant until I was about three weeks into my nine-month journey. I can still remember all that happened the day I found out I was pregnant. I woke up that morning feeling tired and weak. It was as if I was about to develop malaria. I decided to visit a hospital where tests were done and the result showed that I was pregnant.

Were you shocked to hear that?

Shocked! That word underestimates how I felt that day. I waited for many years not months or days to receive something and in a day, it was presented to me. I was shocked to my bones. I shed tears of joy. I kept singing praises to God. I had to pinch myself to ensure I wasn’t dreaming. I found it hard sleeping that night. If you saw me that day, you would notice that I smiled to myself many times. I was happy.

How did your husband react when he learnt you were pregnant?

He was also excited. He shouted for joy when I broke the news to him. Afterwards, he began to sing praises too. We were both excited.

What was the feeling like?

Words failed me to express myself. I was anxious to see my growing tummy. I kept checking my tummy in front of a mirror. My family members too were excited. They were all happy for me. They knew I had waited for a long time.

Were you concerned about the baby’s sex?

Not really though I desired to have a set of twins – a boy and a girl. But at the same time, it wasn’t a must for me. All I wanted was to be called a mother. When I found out that I was pregnant with a male child, I was happy.

How was your pregnancy journey?

I must say that I had a good journey. Even the first three months of my pregnancy journey wasn’t as tiring as people said it would be. In fact, after the first three months, I didn’t experience any health challenge or discomfort.

How did you feel when you held your baby in your arms for the first time?

I cried at first. I kept staring at my son with amazement. I still could not believe he is mine. I could not believe that finally I would be called a mother. I was so thankful to God. I held him close to my chest for a while. I pray that every woman who is waiting to have a child experience what I felt. It is a wonderful feeling.

Where did you put to bed?

I gave birth at a hospital owned by the Redeemed Christian Church of God.

Who assisted you at home when you put to bed?

My mother; she is indeed a mother.

Does anything scare you being a first-time mother?

Not really, but whenever I am uncomfortable with anything he does, I pray about it. I don’t let it worry me. I didn’t also find nursing him a challenge, though the first three months were a bit stressful. I managed to sail through.

Your son turns a year next week. What plans do you have to mark his birthday?

People would expect us to throw a big party for him but we won’t do that. We plan to organise a party for him but it won’t be a really big party.

How many children do you hope to have?

I would like to have two more children. That is my heart’s desire.

What is your advice to other women who are hoping to have children?

They should take life easy. It is possible that they may be tempted to go to some places for help. That will be a big mistake. They should be patient and not be hard on themselves or their husbands. Patience is an important virtue in the journey of waiting to have children. Women, who are hoping to bear children, should have patience. They should live a happy life.

Who does your baby resemble between you and your husband?

He looks like his father; his dad is happy about that. He helps me in taking care of him and changes his diapers. Ever since I put to bed, he has been supportive. Whenever I am tired and need rest, he takes care of him.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]