Dad had a good sense of humour — Late Chief Imam of Lagos’ daughter
Sinat is one of the children of the late Chief Imam of Lagos, Sheikh Garuba Ibrahim Akinola. She talks about the kind of life her father led with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

Tell us about yourself.

I work with the Lagos State Government. I attended Anthony Model and Primary School, King Ado High School, both in Lagos, before proceeding to the Kwara State Polytechnic.

How many children did your father have?

We are nine.

How was it growing up with your father?

I had a good childhood. My father ensured his children never lacked anything good. He loved his children and grandchildren so much. I can proudly say he was a lover of children. He was a caring father and husband too.

How did he discipline any child who erred?

My father was strict. He disliked indiscipline. While growing up, whenever we misbehaved, he would beat us. But sometimes, he didn’t need to beat us; merely looking at us, we knew we had done something wrong and should adjust.

Describe his personality at home.

My father was humble. He had a good sense of humour and was a philanthropist. At some point, he neglected himself so he could help people. He always made sure every of his children was doing fine. He was a concerned father and a fair one at that. He never, for once, made any child feel cheated. Whoever visited our house in tears always left with joy. He didn’t like to see people sad.

Would you say his name opens doors for you?

My father is definitely well known but he encouraged us his children to be independent. He didn’t encourage laziness. He constantly advised us to work hard.

What special memories do you have of your father?

I always tell whoever cares to listen that I can never forget my father. It is not just because he was my father but also for his extraordinary personality. He was a great father. I can still remember some of the stories he used to tell me. He always encouraged me to be kind to people. He said no matter what anyone does to me, I should respond with love.

How do you feel being his daughter?

I am very proud of my father. I could not have asked for a better father. Growing up, whenever any of us was ill, his mind was not at rest. He could leave whatever he was doing to be with the child. He tried to devote time to visit us in secondary school, especially during visiting days.

What values did you learn from him?

I imbibed many values from him because he had a listening ear. If two people were fighting, he would take his time to hear both sides. He also loved to give. My father had a big heart. He was generous even to people he didn’t know. When those who did not know him wanted to see him, he would ask us to let them in. He would say, ‘Don’t stop them from seeing me.’ I strive on daily basis to be like him and exhibit all the values I have learnt from him.

Did he influence his children’s career choices?

My father wanted the best for his children. He didn’t directly influence our career choices but he advised and supported us when we finally decided the professional paths to pursue. He constantly advised us to study what we had passions for. He didn’t like to influence anything in any way. When we had celebrations at home and we asked him to give us money to buy things, he was quick to give us. He did not make it compulsory for us to dress in a particular style during an occasion.

What led to his becoming the Chief Imam of Lagos?

He was called on the telephone and offered the position of Olori ebi. After several meetings, he was then made the Chief Imam of Lagos.

How did his family react to his assumption of the position?

I was quite young then but we were all happy about it. Most of us who were quite young when he was made the Chief Imam fully understood the importance of the position as we grew older.

How did he like to relax?

My father was hard-working and whenever it was time to relax after a hard day’s work, he loved to have a good sleep. He didn’t need medication to sleep. At the same time, he didn’t need an alarm to wake up for prayers.

What were his likes and dislikes?

I know he loved good food. Whenever anyone cooked and the food wasn’t well prepared, he would refuse to eat. For his dislikes, he hated lies. He preferred one to tell the truth no matter the cost to the person.

What was his favourite food?

I think he liked fried rice and rice with vegetable.

What about his hobbies?

He enjoyed travelling. My father had travelled to many countries. He also enjoyed listening to music, particularly before he became the Chief Imam of Lagos.

Would you describe him as an overprotective father?

Most definitely, he cared so much about his children.

What is the most important advice he gave you?

He was a man of wisdom. Until his death, he constantly advised me to treat people with love. He said I should never be proud or brag about the fact that he was my father. He also told me to give people a listening ear. My father didn’t only listen to the problems of people who came to him, he also did exactly what they came for. And if what they came for was beyond what he could do, he would direct the central mosque to do it. Nobody came to him crying without leaving smiling.

What were some of the challenges he faced as the Chief Imam of Lagos?

He became really busy, but never for once did he complain. He devoted his life and time to the position.

Your father once worked with the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Plc. Did he tell you how Nigeria was in those days?

The love he had for the state and the nation could not be quantified. It was far beyond the love he had for himself. The few times we spoke about how Nigeria was at the time, he said good things about the country. He desired for Nigeria to become a better country.

What would you identify as his contributions to ensuring religious unity and tolerance in Lagos and the country as a whole?

My father contributed a lot. His impact was greatly felt in Lagos State and beyond. On the day of his burial, many people said good things about his deeds and person.

How did you hear about his death?

I travelled to Saudi Arabia, but before I embarked on the trip, I prayed with him. He was not feeling okay. When I arrived in Saudi Arabia, I prayed for him. When I returned from the trip, I went straight to the general hospital on Lagos Island. I was shocked to still see him looking ill. I placed my hands on him and prayed for him. I later left and when I got home, I received a call that he had passed on. I believed he waited for me to return to Nigeria before passing on. I prayed to Allah to keep him alive until I returned from the trip. My prayer was answered. My father died on my birthday, September 24.

How did you receive the news?

I was shocked; I cried and cried for days. Till today, I am still sad about his death. I miss him.

How old was he?

He was 79. He was to be 80 in December. We had big plans for his 80th birthday.

What memorable events can you recall during his time as the Chief Imam of Lagos?

My father had a great impact in the state. I can still remember his last birthday celebration. It was a big event.

How did the family feel with the accolades showered on him by ex-governor Bola Tinubu, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, Lagos Assembly Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa, and other eminent Nigerians?

We felt humbled. The day of his burial was a sad day. Everything said about my father was true. He was a caring dad.

What are some of the things you want to tell Nigerians about your late father?

He never liked to eat outside. Before he became the Chief Imam, he enjoyed listening to music. Some of his favourite artistes included Ebenezer Obey and King Sunny Ade. After he became the Chief Imam, he devoted his life to the position. He enjoyed reading newspapers. He was not one to disobey laws. Whenever he went out and there was traffic, he would rather remain in traffic than drive one-way. He was also a quiet person and disliked trouble. He was jovial. Like I said earlier, he loved to crack jokes. He always put God first in whatever he did.

What made him happy?

You could rarely see my father with a sad look. Even when he had a challenge, you wouldn’t know it because he always wore a happy face. He didn’t allow challenges weigh him down in any way.

What did he spend money on?

He splurged money on education. He was always ready to give us money to buy books or pay our tuition. He generally loved to give. If one approached him for financial support and he didn’t have much money on him at that moment, he would find a way to ensure that he made the person happy. He went as far as denying himself some pleasures to make others smile.

What do you miss most about your father?

I miss everything about him. I was quite attached to him; we were very close. He was the best father in the world. My father was a rare gem. I will forever miss him. I am short of words at this stage.

Describe him in three words.

Caring, loving and hard-working.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]