I want as many kids as God gives me — Benmakhlouf
An entrepreneur, Mrs. Taiwo Benmakhlouf, whose baby is seven months old, shares her joy of motherhood with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

What is your baby’s name?

Her name is Lina Benmakhlouf.

When was she born?

I gave birth to her in March this year.

She is cute. Who does she resemble between you and your husband?

She has more of her father’s features and a little of mine. I believe she has my eyes but my husband’s eyes and mine are similar. I’m still waiting to see the other features she would show as she grows. My husband sometimes jokingly says I should wait for her teeth to appear; maybe I might just be lucky. They may be like mine.

How was your pregnancy journey?

My pregnancy journey wasn’t out of the normal. I remember I didn’t have morning sickness but I spat a lot for about three weeks. I also slept a lot – anywhere and anytime. My growing tummy didn’t show until I was about five months pregnant. But by the seventh month, people began to ask if I was having the baby the next month. By the ninth month, I was heavy with a protruded stomach. All thanks to God I had normal delivery.

How did you feel when you were delivered of her?

I remember holding her immediately she was born. It was a wonderful feeling. The nurse placed her on my chest as soon as she came. I was exhausted though from labour stress, but I held her properly after an hour. Before she was brought from the nursery, I remember asking my husband how she looks like. Honestly, her face didn’t register in my memory until I held her the second time.

Was it hard learning the right position to breastfeed her?

After she was born, a doctor saw me breastfeeding and had to lecture me. He said, “Madam, it is the baby to the breast and not the breast to the baby.” He said if I bent down over her, I would be straining my back (laughs).

What did it feel like bathing her for the first time?

Bathing my baby was stressful initially. We had to wait for her to wake up and to be gentle with her. She cried a lot whenever we poured water on her .The first three months was stressful especially as we had a window of five minutes to bath her so as to prevent her from catching cold.

How do you pacify her when she throws tantrums?

I sing a lot for her. In fact, as a mother, you discover some hidden skills you never knew you had. I also clap and make all sorts of sounds to get her attention in order to pacify her. There was a day I was carried away singing for her and dancing to my song and out of the corner of my eye, I saw my husband trying to suppress his laughter. He said he didn’t know I could shake my butt like that.

How do you make her sleep?

As a new baby, I had to put her on my back to make her sleep, but now all she needs is to eat well. As soon as she starts rubbing her eyes, I know she is getting sleepy. I lay her on the bed and after minutes of rolling to and fro, she gently falls asleep.

Have you returned to your normal shape?

Yes and no. I say yes because I’m back to my size 12 and no because the body isn’t as it was before giving birth.

A woman’s body can go back to the size it was but cannot be as perfect as it was before. Just as one changes from being a girl to a woman, one cannot go back to being a girl, so is motherhood. A woman should see these changes as growth and achievements. The major thing is for one to take care of oneself, love oneself and not worry about the changes.

What advice did people give you on how to hasten the healing of your baby’s navel?

A friend told me to place a small cloth on a hot surface and massage it morning and night. Another advised I use toothpaste to make the cord fall off quickly. The hospital advised I use methylated spirit which I did and her navel healed perfectly.

Is your baby’s sex what you desired?

I hoped for a boy. I remember the day I went for second scan and asked the doctor to be sure of the sex. He said, “Madam, it cannot change it, women come in here hoping for a girl and you are here hoping for a boy.” I am happy God gave me a beautiful girl. His thoughts are not our thoughts after all.

How many kids would you like to have?

I love children and I have always quoted Psalm 127 verse 5 to justify this: “Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them: they shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate.” As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man; so are children of thy youth. By God’s grace, I want many children.

What do you miss about your spinsterhood?

Sleep. I miss the opportunity I had to sleep whenever I felt like. I could sleep at any time without having to be disturbed but now, even the consciousness of being a mother makes it hard for me to sleep. I find myself waking up at intervals to check on her.

Is there anything your baby did that scared you within the first few weeks of her birth?

She was too attached to me. I couldn’t take a bath without having to rush out of the bathroom the first three weeks. Her dad would take my clothes and place it on her chest thinking it will make her feel my presence. I almost couldn’t take a break of 30 minutes without having to rush to her side. It was a very tiring period. I found myself speaking Yoruba to her, asking, “shey kosi (I hope all is well)?

How careful are you of germs?

Every mother is careful of germs; I’m not an exception. I wash her hands if she touches anything dirty because I discovered it’s the easiest way to contact germs. I’m obsessed with the washing of her hands. I also make sure I wash her bottles myself. Even with someone assisting me to care for her, I clean her and bath her myself. The nature of my job makes all these easy for me to do – I work from home.

Do you allow people carry your baby?

In this part of Africa, people love babies and some women longing to have kids cannot resist carrying babies. I don’t refuse people carrying her as long as I’m there. I get lots of requests to carry her from people I don’t know. They ask me if they can touch or carry her. I oblige them as she isn’t made of salt.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]