Handling a spoilt child
TOLUWANI ENIOLA examines the views of parents and experts on how to handle a spoilt child

Why do parents spoil their children under the pretence that they are still innocent? This question was raised by an anonymous commentator on nairaland.com, an online forum.

The commentator wrote, “I visited my brother and when his child did wrong, I tried to hit her. He defended her and said, ‘Don’t you know she is a child?’ I have come to notice that a lot of parents make this comment when a child does wrong. I grew up in a similar home where pampering kids was the norm but I also know what it turned my sister into. It took her years after the demise of my mum to realise that life does not give you everything you ask for.”

The above view captures a common problem in many homes in Nigeria. Spoilt kids are rude and badly behaved due to the fact they are given everything they ask for. They are denied discipline that would give them the strength of character to live as responsible adults.

There are different names for such kids among ethnic groups in Nigeria. ‘Akebaje’ is the name for such children in Yoruba. When an Igbo say ‘Nwa mebiri emebi’, it means such a child is spoilt. In Hausa, such children are called ‘Sangartace’.

The issue is a parental problem in Nigeria because many parents are ignorant of the decisions they need to take at various stages of their children’s formative years, says a child psychologist, Prof. Omoteso Adepeju.

Adepeju stressed that while children deserved great care at their childhood years, they should not be pampered.

The expert explains that a spoilt child manifests annoying habits such as throwing tantrums, crying for no reasons, blatant refusal to obey simple instructions and expecting to be begged or bribed with candies and biscuits just to do what is right.

She added, “A spoilt child has benefitted from immense pampering from the parents. It starts gradually. When a child insists the parents should always spoon-feed him or her, that is a warning sign. Such children cry for crying sake. As a parent, when you cannot send your child to do something for you or when you cannot rebuke him or her, or when your child refuses to obey you, such a child is spoilt.

“A spoilt child may refuse to go to school. Some parents will not allow their children to go to school because they are crying. Some parents even go back to check on the child in school.

“In school, such children frustrate the teachers. They cannot be controlled. What the normal children are doing, the child will not do it because he has been spoilt by the parents. They also use foul languages.”

These negative attitudes are warning signs of graver consequences, says Adepeju.

According to her, when parents pamper their children, they are not preparing them for the difficulties that may arise later in their lives.

Adepeju said because they always got what they asked for, irrespective of whether they needed them or not, they might not be able to develop the psychological and emotional strength to respond when they encounter adversity.

She added, “Parents need to foster the values of resilience in their children. Spoilt children may fail to develop the strength of character to survive hard times. Pampering a child will affect every area of his or her development. The child will not mature the same way with others. It will affect his or her learning. Moreover, it will affect the child’s ability to make decisions.

“The child will be dependent all his life because he had lost it in the formation stage. He or she may not be able to stand on his or her own and make decisions. It may affect performance in school. If a child is spoilt already, the parents need prayer for God to change the child and a difficult process of retraining. It is always better prevented than treating it.”

A parent, Mrs. Eze Mercy, shares a trick of how she prevented her three-year-old child from having his ways all the time.

“Sometimes, let them have their way but nevertheless, be firm with them. For me, I ‘attack’ his interest and capitalise on it. For example, my three-year-old old loves recorder so much. He plays with it every now and then. He also does not like to write.

“So, we reached an agreement. If you write, you play with it. If you don’t, you don’t play with it. It works,” she stated.

A mother of three, Mrs. Felicia Ukpong, said some children got spoilt owing to the failure of parents to teach their children basic courtesies such as greeting elders and saying “thank you” for little gifts and “sorry” when they did wrong etc.

“What I did is to set rules for my kids and I stick to them. I am very firm with them. For example, if I say a child gets four strokes of the cane for failing or forgetting to greet elders, ‘good morning,’ I stick by the rule and give such a child four strokes. I don’t pamper,” Ukpong added.

A teacher, Adetokunbo Abigail, blamed the development on parents, stressing that parents of such kids made them have their way at all times.

On how to correct such children, Abigail said parents should be firm, noting that kids know people they could take advantage of and those who wouldn’t take nonsense.

Abgail stated, “Insist that he/she does what you ask. Also, let them know there are consequences for disobeying instructions. Set boundaries. They will test and push you but when they know how far they can get with you; they won’t go beyond. You can talk to the parents too. Let them know what you expect from the child and explain to them how you would like to achieve it.”

Another teacher, Raphel Ogebule, said he had been frustrated by such kids over time but he later discovered a way that worked.

“My first encounter and subsequent ones were not funny. I was usually left with anger and frustration. But overtime, I have learnt to be objective. The spoilt kids were ignorant of the varying factors at stake; that’s why they made a bad choice.

“I simply ‘colonise’ their attention. The way I did that was to deprive them of a timely freedom provided by break time periods. It’s a ‘no-work, no-break time’ principle. They eat their food and remain in class. This has worked,” she said.

Also, a teacher, Amelia Kentebe, however, believed that a child’s level of understanding should be assessed before concluding that he or she was spoilt. Kentebe said, “First, one needs to determine if the child doesn’t want to do his/her work because he or she is pampered or if the child doesn’t comprehend. Next, if you have confirmed the former, you will need to deprive the child of something he or she loves to do like playing. When the child sees his or her friends playing outside, he or she will realise sooner or later that his or her work must be done.”

Another teacher, Akasoro Ibilola, urged teachers to liaise with parents and let the major correction be done by them. Ibilola urged teachers to avoid using derogatory statements. “The parent will understand that any effort you put into the child is the corrective and supportive one. They will thank you for this,” he said.

Similarly, another teacher, Oluwagbenga Herrera, said one could not ‘cure’ a spoilt child within the eight hours spent daily in school since such kid would return to the pampering after close of school.

Herrera stated, “The only viable option is to extract that pampered nature from the child. To do this, you must be gentle and firm, loving in correction. But most importantly, you need the assistance of his parents or guardian. Lovingly point out the corrections you require.

“Advise the parents on the adverse effects their excessive care has on the child’s performance. Personally, pray to God on his or her behalf.”

The view of Mojola Comfort differed slightly from Ibilola and Herrera’s. She urged parents to make their children their friends by looking out for things that interest them.

Comfort said, “You can also make the child’s sit close to you for easy monitoring and control. Positive reinforcement is also key to the child. Positive and active reinforcement to other kids, who do the right thing, will work on the child.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]