When your spouse doesn’t know how to cook
MOTUNRAYO JOEL writes about ways to help a wife who can’t cook

A businesswoman, Mrs. Chinwe Tochi, who had the privilege of growing up among female siblings, simply refused to join others in the family cooking. This would later have a telling effect on her cooking ability when she got married.

According to her, the period after marriage was a trying one for her, leaving her with no other choice but to learn cooking.

“I grew up in a family of all girls. I am the last child in my family. You can imagine how spoilt I was. Growing up, there were times my mother would encourage me to assist my older sisters in cooking, but I always refused. I felt they didn’t need my help.

“It wasn’t until I got married that I realised what I had missed. When I got married, I had to learn how to cook simple meals,” she said.

She added that her husband’s calm nature made it possible for her to improve on her cooking skills without stress.

Tochi admitted that there were times her husband, however, expressed dissatisfaction with the taste of her meals but she didn’t get discouraged.

Her husband, who also spoke with SUNDAY PUNCH, said his love for his wife overshadowed her inability to cook.

“It is not as if I didn’t know my wife could not cook when we first met. But it wasn’t and still isn’t a problem for me. I love good food but if my wife is gradually learning how to make good meals, I can’t pressurise her to learn fast. That would be unfair to her. I don’t think a woman’s cooking skills should be a yardstick for a successful marriage,” he said.

Some married men, who spoke with our correspondent, were of the view that a woman, who couldn’t cook, would eventually become a burden to her husband.

Also, a motor spare parts dealer, Mr. Tony Harrison, who has yet to marry, said he could not marry a lady who couldn’t cook. He noted that his appetite for good food would cause friction if he married someone who couldn’t cook.

“I am single because I have yet to find a good lady to marry. When I eventually find one, I would ask her if she knows how to cook. I can’t marry a lady who can’t cook. Every lady must know how to cook. She must be clean too. Any lady, who is a bad cook, would be a lazy wife. That is my personal opinion,” he said.

A teacher, Mr. Akin Olumide, said he couldn’t understand why a lady wouldn’t know how to cook, arguing that a lady lacking cooking skills could have been spoilt while growing up.

He stated, “I see such as a lady as someone spoilt by her parents. Though a lady may be able to cook but she may not be a fantastic cook – that is a different thing.

“It is really sad for a lady not to know how to cook. How would she then teach her female children how to cook? Cooking is such an important skill a woman needs to know.’’

However, a father, Mr. Tunde Abiodun, stressed the importance of a man looking beyond food, especially if unsure of who to marry. He added that cooking wasn’t a big skill that a woman couldn’t learn even after marriage.

“I would advise every man, who is yet to marry, to look beyond a woman’s cooking skills. Some women may know how to cook but have a bad temper. I am not saying a woman should not know how to cook, but she should not be judged by her cooking skills. Some women eventually become fantastic cooks after training. ”

A grandmother, Mrs. Bisola Jones, said she always advised women to learn how to cook different meals before marriage.

“Whether we (women) like it or not, the way to a man’s heart is through his stomach. You may not be a fantastic cook, but at least know how to cook different meals. Let your children look forward to eating your prepared meals.

“Every man likes good food. Don’t be fooled when a man says he is not bothered about your cooking ability. Trust me, there is another woman cooking good meals for him, or he has a fast-food outlet or ‘mama put’ where he eats,” Jones added.

A single mother, identified only as Ms. Edeh, said her marriage ended because of some issues, including her inability to cook.

Edeh stressed, “My ex-husband and I loved each other. We were friends for three years before we finally got married. At first, he kept complaining about the bad taste of my meals. I kept assuring him that I would improve. I work from Monday to Saturday. There was no time to enrol in a cooking school. I didn’t even have time for myself.

“In a nutshell, my marriage was dissolved because we were both too busy to attend to each other’s needs. It pains me till date. I wish I did whatever I could to save my marriage.

“Whenever I have the opportunity to advise young ladies, I tell them to learn whatever they can to keep their marriage. I am quite sure my husband was tired of my cooking and with the fact that I was not always around.”

The President, Counselling Ambassadors, Mrs. Regina Obasa, said a man, with a wife that couldn’t cook good meals, should enrol her in a cooking school.

“Honestly, I don’t think it is possible for a woman not to know how to cook. It may be that she doesn’t know how to make delicious meals or she lacks varieties.

“This, therefore, should not be a reason for a man to divorce his wife. All he needs to do is to enrol her in a training school. With time, she will get better,” she said.

A marriage counsellor, Mr. Henry Ezekiel, advised men to be patient with their wives who couldn’t cook well and not be hard on them.

“We men also have areas our wives are not pleased with. One of the keys to a successful marriage is patience and tolerance. When spouses notice some weaknesses in their partners, it is vital for them to show patience. With time, the weaknesses will become strengths,” he said.

Similarly, another marriage counsellor, Mr. John Isikpe, believe that it is possible for a woman to become a fantastic cook within a short while.

According to him, a woman needs patience and support and one, who truly loves her husband, will go the extra mile to please him.

Isikpe added, “She could go as far as cooking meals with a cook book or meeting a friend who is a good cook to teach her. Any woman can become a fantastic cook.

“Also, if a wife can’t cook but the husband knows how to cook, he should teach her. There is no harm in a husband teaching his wife how to cook. If a man truly loves his wife, he would do everything to make her a better person.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]