The challenge is how to take care of my triplets – Omoleye
Mrs. Adenike Omoleye, 25, delivered of triplets in Akure, Ondo State, shares her birth experience with Peter Dada

What do you do for a living?

I just finished learning cloth designing.

When did you give birth?

I was delivered of the triplets on October 14, 2017.

How are the babies doing now?

They are very fine.

Have you had children before?

No, they are my first children. I got married not long ago.

Did you ever think of multiple births while pregnant?

No, it was when I did a scan that I was told that I was pregnant with triplets.

When was that?

That was in April 2017.

How did you feel when you heard the good news?

I was happy because it is not man’s making; it’s God’s making. I was also happy being my first children in life.

How did your husband receive the news?

He too was happy because we believe that they are special gifts from God.

Did you pray to have triplets?

No, I only prayed to have children in my marriage. I didn’t know this is how God will do it. Since they have come, we pray to God to spare their lives and make them become successful in life.

Did you give birth naturally or it was assisted birth?

I delivered through caesarean section.

How was the surgery experience?

It was painful because I never experienced such in my life.

How did you feel when the doctor said you would have to undergo a caesarean section?

Initially, I was scared but later I surrendered everything to God. The doctor told me that I wouldn’t be able to give birth myself because it was my first time of delivering a baby. He also said my womb was not large. I didn’t have any alternative than to agree with him.

Do you nurse any fears on how to cater for the babies considering the economic situation in the country?

Yes, I do. That is why I am calling on all well-meaning Nigerians to assist me, because there is no money and job. I just finished learning cloth-making as I told your before. I have not been able to set up a business of my own. Currently, I don’t have any work I am doing. If I have money, I will be doing business. I will establish a business of my own because I was told that I would not be able to operate sewing machine for some time due to my condition. I need money to establish a business to be able to cater for my children. The problem I have now is how to take care of the babies. People should help me.

Share your experience with us before you gave birth.

As expected, I went through antenatal. I met my doctor on days fixed for my appointment. I did all I was asked to do and when the time to give birth was near, we bought all baby items we were asked to buy.

I know that it is not the baby items that matter but how to take care of them now that they have come. We will need to buy their foods, drugs and other things they need. That is the problem for now.

When are you going to be discharged from the hospital?

We don’t know yet because we are yet to pay all the bills. Apart from that, I am sure the doctor will decide that when the time is right. The doctor did the treatment and operation for free but I have yet paid money for the blood I received.

How much do you owe the hospital?

We are to balance N65,000. The entire amount for blood is N185, 000. We have only paid N120, 000. The entire money for everything is over N300,000 but the doctor asked us to pay the money for blood, which is N185, 000 and leave the rest. God will bless him.

What is your husband’s occupation?

He is a bricklayer. He has been around me since I put to bed.

What efforts is he making to pay the balance?

He is trying his best. We all know the situation of the country now. As a bricklayer, he has not been doing much work in recent times. But despite that, he stood by me. I know he will not leave me to handle the matter alone.

How have your family and husband’s families helped in settling the bills?

They have helped us tremendously; they do not leave us alone. Despite the harsh economy in the country, they still help us financially in the way they can. Also, they are always in the hospital to take care of me and see the babies. Our family members are always around me. I recall that they went as far as borrowing money to buy some things needed during the pregnancy and when I was delivered of the babies. If they have the money to pay my hospital bill, I believe they would have done that. I cannot blame them because they wouldn’t go beyond their means.

Have you got assistance anywhere aside from your family?

No, I have not seen anybody but recently, some officials of the state Ministry of Women Affairs visited me. They gave me N50,000 and some gift items for the babies. They said it was Governor Rotimi Akeredolu that sent them to me. But unfortunately, some media organisations reported that I collected a huge amount of money. That is untrue.

Apart from the delegation from the state government, has any charity organisations offered support?

No. I have not seen any charity organisation. Like I told you, it is only officials of the Ministry of Women Affairs that visited me at the hospital a few days ago.

Is there any history of multiple births in your family or your husband’s family?

No, there is none in my family. I am the first person to have triplets. Also, there is no such history in my husband’s family. That is why I said it was God that did it.

How do you feed the babies?

I give them breast milk but the breast milk does not satisfy them and I don’t have much milk in my breast. I have to supplement their meals with other baby foods.

Do you desire to have more children?

No. I think it is okay this way. We have ended plans on childbearing with what we have now.

Do you regret having triplets since you are afraid of how you would take care of them?

I don’t have any regrets because I believe it is the Lord that did it. It was neither me nor my husband but God. I believe that He has reasons for giving my family triplets. I am thanking Him for His goodness to me.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]