Helping a spouse with low libido
GBENGA ADENIJI examines the views of married couples, relationship and health experts on best ways to help a partner with a low sex drive

Thirty-year-old event planner identified only as Mrs. Janet Owuche is not the type who is keen on sexual relationship with her husband.

She stated that the development has been affecting her marriage even as her husband continued to do everything to help her. “My husband knew the kind of person I was before marriage and that is why he is trying to bear with me. Some of the health counsellors we visited suggested many things I need to do. They even said it could be psychological. My upbringing has a lot to do with my attitude towards sex. I know that I have to work more on myself as my husband keeps talking about it,’’ Owuche added.

She noted that things could have been terrible if her husband wasn’t an understanding person.

Onwuche is not the only married person with low sexual desire. There are many people in sex-starved marriages. If it is not the husband that exhibits a low sex drive, it will be the wife. In some cases, the couple may both be guilty.

Sexuality experts on a family website, Psychology Today, advised couples going through such situation to make a satisfying sexual relationship a top priority, care about each other’s feelings, discuss their preferences, work on their relationships and go for medical checkup. They also urged partners to contact experienced sex therapists and be willing to learn how to add spark to their love lives.

Also speaking on the issue, a legal assistant in a Lagos-based hospital, Mr. Olumide Olasunkanmi, said coping with a spouse with a low libido could only be achieved through mutual understanding between the couples.

The father of one said, “I advise the couple to discuss the issue mutually and see a sex therapist. If they are genuinely in love, I am sure that they will overcome the challenge especially when it is something that they are determined to find a lasting solution to.’’

Besides, an accountant, Mr. Segun Sobowale, noted that the affected couples should first refrain from involving a third party in the issue, adding that spreading the case would adversely affect the union.

“The couple must not allow family influence or third party because it will have very serious negative effect on them. They should seek God and experienced medical practitioners and not young ones who may not have handled more of such cases and are yet to fully learn the art of medicine in that area. I once had some health issues along that line,’’ Sobowale said.

He also advised them to shun the use of local herbs while seeking for solutions.

According to him, medical tests may reveal what they are to do and engaging in many practices at the same time to get solution may be counterproductive.

The accountant stated, “They should be prayerful and note that it is important to know the emotional intelligence of their spouse because taunting him or her with it may deflate his or her ego and damage the relationship.”

Also speaking, a teacher and mother of one, Mrs. Ronke Ogundimu, said coping with a spouse with a low libido if not properly handled could threaten the peace of such home or cause infidelity.

Ogundimu said, “For most African, men sex is food. Thus, communication between the two parties on the way out and the need to seek medical help can be a panacea to the challenge.”

For a father and university lecturer based in Ondo State, Mr. Adediran Fagbemigun, the choice of a spouse indicates a complete acceptance of the person in all facets notwithstanding the challenges he or she has.

“As for me, it is either you come down to her level or your help her to move to your level. There is really no alternative in this matter, ’’Fagbemigun said.

A psychology expert, Prof. Oni Fagboungbe, said couples in sex-starved marriages should jointly work to solve the issue rather than keep silent about it.

The psychologist said the persons involved should consult experts including clinical psychologists who would give them the necessary help.

Fagbounge said, “Somebody will be feeling the effect while the other will be producing the effect. People don’t communicate and that is the problem. They should sit down and talk about it. They should not swallow it and try to cope with it. It is not something that one can cope with. Experts will render assistance if the couples go to them. If it is psychological, a psychologist will trace the channels and go into the past to know what happened which permitted a morbid fear in that regard.’’

He cautioned that trying not to talk about it or coping with it could make the affected persons seek an alternative outside the marriage, adding that such would ultimately give room for infidelity.

According to him, many in such marriages will want to be quiet about it so as not to be seen as being promiscuous.

“But the right thing to do is to discuss it. If it is the wife that has a low sex drive, it will affect the husband and if it is the husband that has a low libido, it will affect the wife. So, the best thing is for them to find a solution to it,’’ Fagbounge stated.

On his part, a medical doctor, Dr. Doyin Odubanjo, said it was important to first consider non-pharmaceutical therapies in counselling married couples in such situation.

He said, “One needs to first know what is going on and if the spouse with a low libido is even interested in his or her partner. People marry for several reasons. If the spouse is not interested in his or her partner, then one is wasting time giving drugs or advice. Also, anxiety and stress may be the cause. A spouse who is stressed in the office or bothered about something will be unwilling to think about sex. Also, a man will be unwilling to have sexual intercourse with a woman who is quarrelsome but expects her husband to play with her at night. It is the same for a man who is uncaring but looks forward to a sexual encounter with his wife at night. The wife may not be interested in that.’’

Odubanjo, who is also the Chairman, Association of Public Health Physicians of Nigeria, Lagos chapter, said after considering all the outlined, steps would be taken to know the next thing to do and the best medical help to seek.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]