Dad likes loud music, we share a love for cars — Bishop Okonkwo’s daughter
Uche is the daughter of the Presiding Bishop of The Redeemed Evangelical Mission, Dr. Mike Okonkwo. She talks about her father’s life off the pulpit with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

Tell us more about yourself.

I am married and hold an MBA from Oral Roberts University after earning a first degree in Business Management from the same university. I currently work in an administrative capacity at TREM International Headquarters. I am one of the young associate pastors in the ministry. I am also a budding entrepreneur with interest in strategy development for small businesses and fashion.

How do you feel being the only child of Bishop Okonkwo?

Being the only child comes with lots of pressure. I have learned to manage the pressure that comes with it, going by my parents’ roles in the church. Growing up wasn’t easy because a lot was expected from me. As the only child, I was expected to be perfect, not make errors and be a role model to many people, regardless of whether they were older or younger than me. It was tough growing up. Thankfully, my parents have helped to deflect unnecessary pressures.

Were you pampered while growing up?

Pampered ke? (Laughs). My parents did not believe in raising a spoilt kid. The fact that I am the only child meant that I went through a tough parental discipline. My parents were bent on not spoiling me. They ensured that I was well disciplined. I had friends in primary school that didn’t do any chores, because they had house helps. However in my house, I did chores whether I liked it or not. My mother also had a policy of modest dressing which she made me stick to. She didn’t want me to be distracted. From JSS1-JSS3, I wore a low cut, even though the school allowed girls to weave their hair. It was not a good look for me either. I hated it but I had to comply with my mother’s rule.

How strict is your dad?

Discipline comes to mind when I think about the most predominant childhood memories with my father. This was not because I was a bad child, but because of his determination not to make me a spoilt child. My father is a disciplinarian.

It seemed the fear of raising a spoilt child (society expects the only child of a family to be some sort of brat) was the beginning of wisdom for them.

I suffered a lot (laughs). However, my dad and I shared and still share a love for cars and driving. We would go for evening rides on Sunday evening. At the time, Victoria Island and Lekki, were not as developed as they are now and we would drive around the area to take in the scenery before returning home. I also grew up to be a foodie. I remember that to my delight, my dad came home with different snacks.

The cane obviously drove a wedge between us. Our discussions were centred on these few questions: How are you?, How was school?, Have you done your homework?, Have you eaten? (This question was asked whenever my mother was out of town).

Thankfully, we now enjoy a more robust relationship. My dad and I now spend a lot of time together in discussions and more. And now that I’m married, our relationship is even more robust. He absolutely loves my husband and we all spend lots of time together whenever we have the opportunity to.

How did he discipline you whenever you misbehaved?

He used plenty of the cane. While growing up, I was not a “yes-child.” In the sense that I didn’t just do things because I was told to. I needed an answer to my “whys.” My parents encouraged me to question things. I remember an experience while in secondary school. My class got into trouble. Letters were sent out to all the parents regarding our misbehaviour. The school invited parents to come in for a meeting. I gave the letter to my mother and she kept till the next morning. After the 6am devotion, she gave the letter to my father. I got six hot strokes of the cane that morning.

My father wasn’t bothered by the fact that it was early in the morning. Compared to my mother, my father is more of the disciplinarian. I’m very close to my mother. Cane was the answer for a while. My dad used to flog me a lot.

However, as I grew older, they realised that the cane wasn’t cutting it anymore. I became an expert in “chesting” or “dusting” it (laughs). Later, my father would use harsh words to correct me. My father’s leading statement at the time was, “Uche, so you want to be useless…” But of course, it’s very different now that I’m an adult.

How did he react when you told him you want to get married?

My husband is the first man I ever spoke to my father regarding marriage. His first reaction when I told him was a broad smile. My mother and I actually spoke to him together (she was the first person I told) and so he understood that this was it. Interestingly, when I was much younger, I would say that the only man I would “officially” speak to my father about would be my husband, and that’s exactly what happened. I asked him to pray about it, because I wasn’t going to get married to anyone without their approval. Their consent was a necessity for me, even my husband understood that. My parents prayed about it and they had overwhelming peace. That was all the checks they needed to carry out on him. They knew it is God’s will.

Tell us about your wedding day.

It was awesome and somewhat surreal. It was a day I had prayed, fasted and dreamt about. It happened beautifully to the glory of God. Of course, my father was super proud and excited, and that meant the world to me. I was determined to enjoy every aspect of my wedding and I definitely did.

How does he spend time with his family?

We spend time with him in his house. Also, due to my job, I go on some trips with him and that’s another opportunity to spend time with him. I enjoy my parents’ company and you will often see me around them. I want to be there for them as much as I can as they grow older and to glean from their wisdom as much as I can. I don’t take our relaxed moments for granted. I cherish those moments.

What are his favourite food and drink?

Does he actually have one? My father enjoys bitter leaf soup and coffee. That does not mean he takes bitter leaf and coffee together (Laughs). He also has a sweet tooth.

What is his best music?

Gospel music of course and he also enjoys songs with a good message. He likes loud music.

What are his favourite sports?

My father loves football, tennis (my mom got him into this one) and oh yes table tennis. He still plays actually and he’s quite good at it. He beat my husband when they played (Laughs).

Does your father’s name open doors for you?

Hmm, this is a tough question. This is because I’m not one who would lead a conversation of any sorts with “Oh hi, I’m Bishop Mike’s daughter.” However, my father has lived by a principle, which his father passed on to him. That principle states that ‘a good name is better than riches.’

I’m grateful to God that by His grace alone, He has kept my father and enabled him to live a commendable life of integrity, devoid of scandal. I’m incredibly blessed and do count it a privilege to be the seed of exemplary parents.

What are your father’s worst and best moments?

One of the worst moments my father experienced was when he lost his immediate younger brother. That was an extremely difficult time for him. This was because his brother was a strong pillar of support at the inception of the ministry. Another sad moment was when he lost his first daughter, my sister. This occurred on Boxing Day, right after she had participated in the children’s choir after the Christmas service. Those were some painful moments. He has had countless great moments too, such as the beginning of the ministry, when I was born and the dedication of our cathedral. I also know that walking me down the aisle was an incredible moment for him.

What are the things people don’t know about your father?

My father is very jovial. He enjoys a good conversation. My father is tender hearted. He speaks Yoruba fluently and was a banker.

My parents will always say there was a point in their lives where they couldn’t afford anything. My father resigned his job as a bank worker decades ago when God called him. Everyone thought it was such a stupid decision. His family turned their back on him. They told him never to knock on their doors to beg for anything. But God showed Himself strong. My mother even recently shared their experience again with us. Actually when I was little, I liked boiled eggs. And there was a time she boiled the last egg for me. We didn’t have money to purchase more. She prayed about it.

She told God that she needed eggs for her daughter. That same day, God led a lady to deliver eggs to our house. There are countless testimonies of God’s goodness towards us, and we’re grateful to Him. My father is one of the pioneers of the Pentecostal movement in Nigeria, and so there was really no reference point in the country at the time. He had to navigate his way with the help of the Holy Spirit.

What are the important things your father told you about life?

Life is about impacts. If your life is not impacting on anyone, then you are not really living. Life isn’t about how much one can grab for oneself and families, but about how much one can give. He has taught me that I shouldn’t always join the complainers, but always seek to be a solution provider. Very importantly also, and this is one of his mantras: That I should never stop learning, and no one is too small to learn from.

How does your father relax?

He watches movies/television series. My father enjoys a good movie/series. I definitely inherited that trait from him as well.

What is his opinion about the agitation for Biafra?

He had a press release the other day where he addressed these issues. Biafra isn’t the only agitation in the country. There are agitations in the North, West, Niger Delta and the rest. But my father believes Nigeria should be restructured to reflect true federalism.

Does your father think that Nigeria will break up?

He does not. As a matter of fact, across the different branches of TREM in Nigeria, we sing the national anthem, and pray for the nation every Sunday. But as I earlier stated, he believes the country should be restructured to reflect true federalism.

Who are those your father considers his role models?

As I stated earlier, being one of the pioneers of Pentecostal movement in Nigeria, there weren’t lots of models like we have today. But I know his ministry has been greatly influenced by some generals in the faith such as Morris Cerullo, Kenneth Hagin, Charles Capps, Fredrick Price and more. As an avid learner, he learns till date from both the old and the young.

Who are your dad’s best friends?

My mother.

What are the secrets of his good looks?

God is His secret really. He believes the word of God guarantees him divine health and he confesses these promises on his life. He also acts in accordance with the word of God. He eats well and does some exercises when he can.

What are the lessons you have learnt from your father?

Wow! I can write a book on this. He has made it extremely clear that it is only God that can make a man and so no man should ever take the glory for his/her accomplishments.

I look at my parents’ relationship, how deeply my father loves and adores my mother and I am amazed. He’s taught me never to settle for just any man and thank God I did not.

He has taught me that there is power in the word of God. Whatever the word cannot give you, you don’t need it, and it does not exist. He taught me what it means to live a life of integrity. He walks the talk. What you see outside is what you see when the lights and cameras are off; a true man of integrity and character. My father has taught me to speak up and not allow anyone or anything to intimidate me; to be willing to stand by my convictions. My father also taught me to apologise. Don’t request of people what you can’t do yourself, or you’re not willing to do.

My father taught me what it means to forgive and forget. He has taught me what it really means to walk in love, despite the pain and disappointment. My father lives by this statement, “It’s not about how others treat you, but how you treat others.”

What’s your father’s view on Nigeria at 57?

From several discussions with him, he won’t give Nigeria a pass mark. He believes that as a country and people, we haven’t fared well given the vast resources we’re blessed with; both natural and human. In his opinion, which I completely agree with, we wasted our years of plenty, leaving us with the pertinent task of readdressing critical issues, which can only be birth through critical reasoning. There’s a wise saying by Albert Einstein that “we cannot solve our problems with the same level of thinking that created them.” This applies to us as a country now, more than ever before, in the light of the ongoing issues we’re contending with.

We really need to sit down, ask ourselves some difficult questions, tell ourselves some hard truths and make the necessary adjustments, if this country is going to move forward at all.

Does he think the church is doing enough in talking truth to power?

Yes, he believes the church is doing enough in speaking the truth to power, especially in the light of the current situation in Nigeria and with our type of democracy. The church will continue to play her role as the beacon of light and not have her voice drowned even amid the noise.

Some people think that pastors should not own private jets. Do you think this is wrong?

Personally, I don’t think it’s wrong for a pastor to own a private jet. Firstly, I’ll consider the magnitude and size of the pastor’s ministry and impact, as this determines everything. It determines if there’s a need for one. Note that I didn’t say a want, but a need. Where the magnitude of the pastor’s impact and ministry is large, consequently, there’s a demand for him and on him. This affects his itinerary, as good time management is essential.

The issue of flight availability and connections across the world, and especially within Africa, can be a real hassle. One has to experience this to fully understand that this is a problem some men of God face. At times like that, which are prevalent, flying private just helps to ease the stress, aside from the overall burden of ministry that these pastors are under. Additionally, there’s the matter of affordability. If the pastor can afford it, I don’t think it’s a problem, because contrary to popular belief, there are pastors that are actually blessed and can afford to have jets without fleecing the sheep. We must always remember that some pastors have professional careers and engage in business activities. But if the pastor has to squeeze the members for resources to buy a private jet, then that’s wrong. I won’t subscribe to that at all.

Does he think churches should pay taxes?

When you say churches, perhaps you should clarify some more. Individuals in churches should pay taxes, staff members should pay their tax, but the church as an entity should not be taxed, because the church is a not-for-profit organisation.

The church is the light of the world. It offers hope and succour to all that walks through its doors not just spiritually but materially as well. Given the level of degradation in our society and the failings of government through the years, the church has continued to play her role in alleviating poverty and offer hope through different means. In this regard, it assists the government to get the work done. Today, churches are involved in different community service programmes such as fixing roads, street lights and fixing boreholes in various communities among other things. Only recently, we concluded free skills acquisition programmes for over 1,200 people, the majority of who were not TREMites. In that number, we also had Muslims. As a church, we didn’t discriminate against them. The church does a whole lot for the state and so should not be taxed. The essence of the church is to positively impact on the community, state and nation where it is located. Churches in Nigeria have fared tremendously well in this regard.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]