Helping a child who cries easily
MOTUNRAYO JOEL writes about ways to deal with a child who cries unnecessarily

A fast food outlet owner, Mr. Segun Ogunlade, says he is tired of his four-year-old daughter’s attitude because she whines over every little thing.

Ogunlade said he decided to stop spanking her after realising that doing so worsened the situation.

“I guess it is because I have just one child, I don’t understand the ways of toddlers. My daughter’s attitude is becoming unbearable. Whenever she wants something and you don’t give it to her, she cries non-stop. If something does not go in her favour, she also cries uncontrollably. I have scolded her several times but it didn’t help matters. People say I should be patient with her and that she would outgrow it. But I think it is taking too long,” he said.

In a sad tone, Ogunlade said his best friend’s daughter does not behave like his daughter, noting that though the former cries but not over everything.

He said he felt that he and his wife spoilt her in her early years which affected the way she is.

“I keep telling my wife that we spoilt our daughter. Being our first child, I know that is inevitable but I feel we should have been a bit hard on her. I still remember when she turned two. We began to give her everything she asked for. When she misbehaved, we overlooked her errors. That was a big mistake on our part,” he said.

According to psychologists, children cry for different reasons: when they crave attention, want an activity or item, or desire to escape a demand from their parent.

A psychologist at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Mr. Mike Phillip, said attention-seeking can begin when a child who is playing happily notices his or her parent’s diversion of attention.

He added that such a child could start misbehaving to regain his or her parent’s attention.

“When a child starts to misbehave or act up because the parent’s attention is diverted, the parents should do nothing. I recommend that both parents should engage in ‘planned ignoring,’ or turning their backs on the child (as long as he or she is safe). Parents should not respond to the child. A child’s desires can range from wanting new toys’ aspiring to perform activities they shouldn’t be allowed to do for many years. My advice to parents is that they should not give in to the demand nor engage at length with the child over the issue,” he said.

Phillip further advised parents to avoid giving in to a crying child who wants something they don’t want him or her to have.

According to him, giving in will make the child cry more next time and trigger a pattern of behaviour that can be hard to change later.

“If your child cries a lot more with you than he or she does with other people, the child might have found that crying gets your attention. Don’t bother, try to focus on showing the child positive attention when he’s not crying. This might help to reduce his tears,” he said.

A teacher, Mrs. Bunmi Odelola, said she would not hesitate to spank a child who cries excessively. She said doing so would control how the child cries whenever he or she is displeased.

She stated, “I am a strict teacher. I can’t stand a child who cries over everything unnecessarily. It irritates me. My pupils know me very well, I have a good sense of humour but I am also tough. Overtime, I have realised that when a child is pampered, the child would cry more for every little thing. But when the child is punished for crying, next time the child may not cry if he or she wants something and it is not given to him.”

Phillip, however, said beating a child because he or she cries often is not the solution. He said it would give the child the impression that crying as a way of letting out emotion is an entirely bad feeling.

“Rather than scolding a child for throwing a tantrum, help the child to understand their negative emotion and learn to understand why they feel as they do. It will help them develop emotionally. Shutting down a child’s emotions won’t help matters. Help the child to see that you understand his frustration and that it is okay to feel that way, but that there is a better way to express it,” he said.

Also, a mother of two, Mrs. Toyin Orekoya, explained that children who cry often do so because they want attention from their parents.

“I have two children aged 7 and 10 and I work closely with children. A child who cries about everything needs attention. I advise the parents to sit down and think about ways to show more love to the child,” she said.

Advising parents, an expert in psychology, Dr. Christiana Uzondu, urged them to know the reason behind an outburst or tantrum.

She said, “Try to work out why your child is crying. If she is tired, some quiet time or a rest might help. If your child is angry, put him or her somewhere safe to calm down. If the child is expressing frustration as evident in the behaviour, try to work out a solution together. Don’t shout on the child for crying without knowing the reason for it.

“Give your child a chance to calm down, then ask her what has made him or her upset if the child can talk. Show you’re listening by repeating the child’s feelings back to him or her. Offer your child some other ways to deal with the situation. At the same, do so if you have to put your child somewhere safe and take a five-minute break or more. Letting your child cry for a few minutes won’t hurt and can help you get things under control.”

Uzondu said parents should help their children to learn when and how to express emotions like sadness, anger and happiness through their own actions.

“Seeing your emotions also teaches your child that their parents are people with feelings too. It is vital for parents to be wary of how they express emotions in the presence of their kids. They should focus on teaching them how to express their strong reactions in socially appropriate ways,” she said.

The psychologist said that highly sensitive children could become overwhelmed when they encounter issues not in their favour.

She said when a child who cries often reacts to a situation in a calm, sweet way, it is a perfect opportunity to recognise and reinforce his or her good behaviour.

“When you are alone with the child, express appreciation regarding the exhibited behaviour and create situations where it will be easy for you to praise the child,” Uzondu said.

Another psychologist, Mrs. Nnadozie Ebele, who described tears from children as a way of seeking their parents’ attention, said kids who are pampered whenever they cry, interpret such action as a way of showing love to them.

“Most children younger than two-and-a-half years old will rely on acting out their problem. Try to start a dialogue if you can. The whole essence is to get the child out of that state of tears,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]