Spanking not my favourite way of discipline — Mutiu Adepoju
A former Super Eagles midfielder, Mutiu Adepoju, talks about the lessons fatherhood has taught him with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

How would you describe fatherhood?

Fatherhood is a responsibility that comes with great joy. When a man becomes a father, he is expected to be a role model to his child. Seeing my children makes me feel great. They are a bundle of joy. I feel glad that I brought them into the world. Children are a blessing from God.

Looking back at your eldest daughter’s formative years, how do you feel now that she is an adult?

I feel glad. Whenever I travel and we both get talking, I tease her about her formative years. I still remember how she used to behave. She was quite stubborn. She loved to play; many times you would find her jumping on the couches in the living room. She was an active child. But over the years, as she became mature, she became quiet. She has grown into a beautiful, mature and responsible lady. She just completed her university education. I am proud she is a graduate.

What do you tell her about men whenever you have a heart-to-heart discussion with her?

I always tell her that I’m a man and so I know better. I tell her that she should be careful about the decisions she makes. I also tell her that she should make decisions that would make her happy. As her father, I’m more concerned about what makes her happy. I tell her that it is important one is happy in one’s marriage. My prayer for her is to have a happy home.

Would you mind if she dated a footballer?

It all depends on what she wants. I can’t dictate to her. If that would make her happy, I’m in favour of it.

What are the values you imbibed from your father that you have passed to your children?

My father had an easy-going personality and he was humble. I imbibed these qualities from him. I try as much as possible to ensure my kids are brought up to be like me. I grew up seeing my father as a role model and this has shaped me into being a role model to my daughters. I never saw my parents argue or fight. I ensure my wife and I settle any misunderstanding behind closed doors. A father must show good example to his children. Children must see love between their parents because without love, there cannot be a marriage. Without love, children will think it is the best way to live. The role of a father or a parent is very great.

Do you spank your children whenever they err?

I remember when my girls were quite young; I used to spank them whenever they misbehaved. But as they grew older, I hardly spanked them. I think it is because my wife and I worked together in ensuring that we raise kids with a godly attitude. I am proud to say that my kids are well behaved. There are times when I get strict with them, but spanking has never been my favourite way of disciplining them. Instead of spanking them, I would deprive them of something they like or prevent them from going somewhere.

Would you have loved to have a male child?

Yes, I would have loved to have a mixture of both sexes. Nevertheless, I have no regrets. I am extremely proud of my girls, I love them dearly. I am happy to be their father.

Do you and your wife have different views on how your children should be raised?

No, we don’t have different views. I have been very lucky in the sense that my wife and I understand each other to a large extent. We started as friends so the bond of friendship has kept the marriage going. Whenever my wife makes a decision that concerns any of our kids, I support her and vice-versa. We raised our kids with love.

What are the distinctive character traits of your children?

I am quite familiar with my kids’ personalities. My first child is gentle, intelligent and strong-willed. She can’t be easily swayed. My second daughter is good at sports and she is also strong-willed. She had always loved to play basketball. I am glad she is living her dreams. Academically, she is sound. She has a lively personality. My third daughter is calm and shy. She is like me. We don’t like to be troubled. My last daughter who is 14-year-old has a bit of my wife’s personality and mine. She also plays basketball. Sometimes, I get baffled at how she reacts to situations.

How would you compare roles of fathers in Nigeria with those overseas?

I think there is no difference but it is in Nigeria you find a father spanking or beating his child in public. The law (in Spain) is against such. But I’m more concerned about raising children that one would be proud of.

What is your children’s perception of you?

I believe my children know that I’m well known and that I played footballer at the highest level. Many times they try to emulate my ways of life. They say I am their role model.

Did you influence your children’s career choices?

No, I would never do that. For example, my first daughter studied telecommunications. She decided that was what she wanted to study at early age. I don’t believe a parent should influence his or her child’s choice of career. It would definitely affect the child later on, especially if the child has no passion for the course being forced to study.

Do you agree with the belief of some that fathers should provide for the home while mothers take care of the home?

I have a different opinion on that. I believe both parties should work together. Both parents should take care of their home. There are roles that would ordinarily be classified as a mother’s duty which a father can take up. I believe both parents should work hand-in-hand in caring for their children.

How much has fatherhood changed your perspectives about life?

Fatherhood has affected me in many positive ways. Before I do anything or embark on a trip, I think about my family and how it would benefit them before I think about myself. I was brought up in a happy home. I never saw my parents argue or fight in front of my siblings and me. I grew up with the mentality that ­parents should not argue in front of their kids. All I learnt as a young boy is playing out in my marriage. I value how my children see me. Every day, I strive to be a wonderful father. Fatherhood, like motherhood, is a great experience. But it is an experience that one should go through prayerfully.

How would you advise fathers?

They should constantly encourage their children in whatever skill they show interest. When my kids were much younger, my wife and I used to take them for football training. A father‘s role in the life of his child is extremely important. As a father, you need to also instill some level of discipline in your children. You cannot pass on what you don’t have so you must also be disciplined. Essentially, the responsibility of how a child should grow lies with the father. It is important that a man realises that he is the head of the family. What is your experience in raising girls?

Personally, I think it is harder raising boys. I say this from what I have seen and what my friends say.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]