I felt bad when I got pregnant again after 13 years – Olasinde
A customer relations officer, Temilade Olasinde, talks about how she endured years of waiting before she gave birth with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

Tell us about yourself.

I am happily married with kids. I currently work as a customer relations officer with a private company. I am a Christian, a Roman Catholic to be precise and member of the Catholic Women Organisation of Nigeria.

Did you have it easy giving birth?

I had my own share of waiting for years before giving birth. I waited five years before having my second child. The years of waiting were trying times; I won’t say it was an easy period. I thank God for strength and determination He released upon me to wait. No one can understand what it feels like to wait for years before having a child, except the person has experienced such. Just when I thought I was done with child bearing, I had a child after 13 years.

What was the experience?

I was not expecting to be pregnant again. I believed I was done with childbearing and was waiting to nurse my siblings’ children. I was also looking forward to becoming a grandmother someday. I had given out all the baby things in the house that I had nothing left to give or to nurse a new baby. Thirteen years is a long period; I took my mind off getting pregnant. In my daily prayers, I prayed to God to answer the cry of those seeking His face for the fruit of the womb.

You mean you didn’t want to get pregnant again?

No. I was done with childbearing.

How did you feel when you realised you were pregnant?

To my utmost surprise, I found out I was pregnant sometime in September last year. I actually felt really bad about it and wondered why the pregnancy didn’t go to one of the people I had been praying for. I broke the news to my husband who became happy and he started preparing for the baby’s arrival.

How old is your first child?

My first daughter is in her second year in the university. In fact, I tried as much as possible to keep the news especially from her because I thought she too would feel bad about it. She was actually not happy when she got to know and her first question was, ‘How will I tell my friends that my mother just put to bed?’ She later surprised me when she became so pitiful and was always giving me words of encouragement.

How were you able to manage the pregnancy?

The pregnancy experience was not a funny one at all but God saw me through. That is all I can say. There were days I felt like staying in bed all day and not going to work. I felt really tired; I thank God for my husband who was really supportive.

Since you are in mid-forties, did you have any experience that scared you during the pregnancy?

I almost had a premature baby when a serious contraction occurred at thirty-two weeks of the pregnancy. I was rushed to the hospital and given some medications. Gradually, the contraction stopped and I was advised to be on bed rest thereafter. Weeks after that incident, painful contractions became an every evening affair. The contraction came on a daily basis and lasted between 20 and 30 minutes. It continued till the night before my baby arrived but the contractions were not strong enough to push my baby out. I still remember all that happened that day. My family members became worried. We all began praying for God’s intervention. I kept praying to God to bring what He had started to a happy completion. Now that I have my baby, I say to whoever cares to listen that motherhood is a divine calling and to be chosen by God to be a mother is a blessing. I am forever grateful to God for making me a woman.

When did you give birth?

My baby arrived on June 12, 2017 around 11.30pm. Prior to baby’s arrival, I had an induction. The induction was another painful experience. It got to a point I was almost praying for death because I could not bear the pain any longer. In fact, that day was the longest day of my life. It got to a time that it seemed the pain multiplied and I began to push out my baby despite serious warnings from the medical team telling me not to do so. Going against their warning resulted in cervical laceration which was excruciatingly painful. Despite all I passed through, seeing my baby alive and beautiful gave me joy. When I heard her cry, all the pain disappeared. Tears of joy trickled down my cheek and the shout of ‘thank you Jesus’ became my only word all through the night.

How did you feel when you held her in your arms?

I felt so happy and surprised that I could still bring forth such a beautiful queen. She weighed 3.6kg at birth.

What is your baby’s name?

Her name is Praise, Iseoluwa, Moranugba, Oluwatosin Olasinde.

What is your advice to women who are on the verge of giving up after waiting for years to give birth?

To as many that are on the verge of giving up due to long wait of giving birth, I say don’t give up. Almighty God is still in the business of performing miracles. You are waiting because God is preparing something special for you. He wants to give you an uncommon favour. The type that will make you an envy of those mocking you today. Even if you are at menopause, don’t give up because menopause is not ‘menostop.’

How would you describe motherhood?

Motherhood to me is a learning process, hence there is no such thing as a perfect mother. Also, one should not compare one’s baby and motherhood process with somebody else’s. It is a distinct journey for everyone. Comparing one’s experience with another person’s may be frustrating. I advise mothers to enjoy every moment. They should take things easy and keep telling themselves that they are a unique channel of God’s creation which will keep them going.

Motherhood means sacrifice, strength, being a positive role model and loving unconditionally. It also means experiencing someone else’s pain and taking it as one’s. Sometimes, I get tired due to sleepless nights but when I see her smiling I realise that the sacrifice is completely worth it. Motherhood is a great calling given to women by God. It is the greatest job in the world. Motherhood means walking into the toughest job on earth. My mother always says that motherhood comes with huge responsibilities and requires a lifetime commitment. This job does not have annual or sick leave. Quitting is not allowed. Yet, we still have people loving this job and I am one of them. Motherhood allows me to stretch my heart and capability in ways that I could never imagine.

Famous quote

My mother is my root, my foundation. She planted the seed that I base my life on, and that is the belief that the ability to achieve starts in your mind — US basketball player, Michael Jordan

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.