I’m not a perfect dad though my kids say I am — Osofisan
Celebrated writer and playwright, Prof. Femi Osofisan, talks about his career and fatherhood experience with GBENGA ADENIJI

How were you able to combine fatherhood with being a scholar/writer?

Sometimes, I wonder about this, whether I was really successful at it. As you probably know, this work of artistic creativity can be so possessive at times that you forget other things, including your responsibility to your dear ones. The muse, even in spite of yourself, is unrelenting. So, I am sure the occasions must have been numerous when my children suffered from neglect by their father. But they are so generous of course that, if you were to ask them now, I’m sure they would say I was a perfect father. But don’t believe it however; I was not. The saving grace, to confess, was their mother. She was always strong, always there for all of us. She was father and mother to the children, and even also to me. My fatherhood owes a lot to her understanding and companionship.

What does fatherhood mean to you?

A lot! It’s something, I think, in the culture we inherited, that we should be obsessed with it, right from adolescence. As a Yoruba man, giving birth to another life, reproducing yourself, brings a certain kind of joy, an immeasurable fulfilment, like an awesome debt repaid. And I’m almost sure it’s the same for all the other ethnic groups. Having a son in particular, we are taught, is like an insurance against death, against mortality. Nowadays of course, with better enlightenment, the gender of the child no longer matters. But the pride of being a parent has not diminished. You can’t describe it. Each child is so precious, even the difficult ones.

What prepared you for fatherhood?

Nothing at all! Nobody. And I think that was my principal handicap—the fact that I had no preparation whatsoever for the role. You see, I lost my own father at the age of two months barely, and I had to grow up with different relatives. My eventual stepfather did his best I must say, but there were always tension between us, and frankly, I didn’t see much of him either. Then he too died early. For me therefore, growing up was in the main a lonely experience. So I had to be improvising most of the time when I became a father, and I am sure I made many mistakes. But luck was always on my side.

It was always a struggle between conflicting loyalties. My career as a writer was just beginning, you see, just as my professional life as a university lecturer and academic. But I was very determined to make the marriage succeed, against the usual prejudice people have about marriages with artists. Also, as you know, theatre work demands several hours of work and commitment, especially in our kind of environment in Nigeria, where you are invariably forced to play multiple roles—as playwright, actor, director, song writer and even producer, etc., all at the same time—if you want to succeed. You try your best to still give attention to the family of course. But invariably, one or other of these duties suffer.

What was your greatest fear before you became a father?

My fear? Well, I will say it was about having the time to give to the children, what with my heavy schedule. And having the right words to bring them up right, especially in this environment suffused with so much hypocrisy, corruption and cruelty. These were my principal fears.

When did you become a father?

When I had my first child of course.

How did you feel the first time you held your first child in your hands?

Puzzled at first, for the first few seconds. Childbearing is such a mystery. And then afterwards, after those few seconds, overwhelmed by a rush of wonder and joy. Here was my son at last, and he was so fragile in my hands.

Why do you like putting on traditional attire?

An ideological choice of course, but also a simple, practical matter of personal comfort. I say comfort, rather than fashion or convention, because, just as I don’t wear the three-piece suit, so also do I shun the traditional agbada. I must say it’s been fun watching fashions change over the years. When I was young, it was considered ludicrous and pathetic to wear the English suit in hot weather for instance. But now it’s become the signature attire of our successful middle class, a sine qua non. Just as it was a taboo for women to wear trousers and make-up. So, time changes, I agree, and fashion is impermanent. Still, we need to encourage our own manufacturers and use own indigenous products. And there is a lot by our traditional designers that we can learn from. That’s the reason for my choice of clothes.

Did you discipline your children using a whip, the cane or verbal correction?

All of the above, always depending on the scale of the offence. But I very much believe in the old adage that says, “spare the whip and spoil the child.”

Tell us the values you passed on to your children.

The virtues I tried to instil in the children—things like compassion, integrity, humility, a healthy spirit of scepticism, selflessness, hatred of greed, courage, and so on—were the lessons I picked up initially from the Bible, and subsequently from the best of my teachers. It is also important to believe in our people and our culture, just as much as to dream, imagine and to let the spirit soar.

What have been your greatest challenges as a father?

Fatherhood is a challenge, simple. There is nothing like a small or great challenge in the 24/7 work of bringing up a child. All children are sweet angels up to the age of seven or so; after that they turn into delectable monsters.

What lessons have you learnt from fatherhood?

Difficult to say in a summary, actually. But it is natural, I suppose, that as a parent you get to value human life a little more; that you become more concerned about the future, about the country, and the fate of the environment. Fatherhood also tends to blunt the hard edge of radicalism, to make you more tolerant of others’ errors and, sadly, of wrong.

Your language in your novels is rich with universal themes. What is your inspiration?

Not only in my novels, I hope, but also in my plays, poems, essays and songs. I believe in the fraternity of all humanity, a belief reinforced each time I travel to other lands. And I believe all of us are constantly threatened by the insatiable hungers of would-be dictators and cannibals. Unchallenged, these negative forces will destroy our world.

That’s why we need to confront them relentlessly, and to form solidarities across all the lines that would divide and destroy us. Faith, hope, and love, these are the words that inspire me, and they can be found in all the great writers before us.

Do you encourage your children to write like you do?

Not specifically. I only hoped, like every father, that my children would take after me. I have three boys and a girl. But so far that hope has not been fulfilled. Each child has had complete freedom to pursue his or her own career without any dictation from me. And, so far they are fulfilled, I am at peace.

Were there things you would have loved to do differently as a father?

Maybe played more with them when they were kids. Maybe taken them out on more trips, particularly foreign countries, but our limited funds, my wife and I, put a break on that. So I can’t complain really, for I did my best within my means.

Were you in labour room with your wife during the birth of your kids?

No. In our time the doctors would not permit it. Nor did we ourselves even think of demanding it.

What is your advice to children without father figures?

To be like me—learn to depend on themselves. To lean on knowledge instead of rumour or superstition. To develop compassion for others, without however surrendering to duplicity. To face life with courage, even when the days are bleak.

What major advice have you given your children about relationship?

None really, at least not directly. I have left them to learn from the example of my life with their mother. And from what I say in my writings, as well as from the company I keep.

How best do you think fathers can play meaningful roles in the lives of their children?

Hard to advise. As I said, each child is unique, needing his or her own attention. But well, all children need affection and understanding, and ultimately, companionship. Fathers must strive to offer these to their kids.

How do you appreciate your wife in taking care of the home despite being a lecturer too?

My wife is not very demanding, fortunately. A few words of appreciation are enough for her. Plus of course the usual tokens—the occasional gift; an outing together when possible; such simple things. My wife is a special blessing.

How do you reward your children’s good deeds?

Gifts when they were young. Nowadays, mainly with verbal acknowledgement.

If you were not a writer, what other career would you have chosen?

I frankly don’t know. My friend BJ (Prof.Biodun Jeyifo) speculates that I would have been a musician—you know, of the popular street type. My wife says perhaps a scientist in the technological area. But I myself keep wondering, and all I know with certainty is what I would NOT be.

Which of your novels do you like most and why?

None. I’m still searching for the perfect theme and perfect style.

Why do you have a pen name, Okinba Launko, like some western writers?

Long story there, which I’ve narrated on other platforms and do not wish to repeat. Here, I would therefore just say, why not?

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.