Ending the silent treatment game
MOTUNRAYO JOEL writes about ways a partner can cope with a spouse who exhibits the silent treatment

Mrs. Yemi Alaka, a mother of a three-year-old child is on the verge of ending her marriage. She and her spouse have been married for five years.

Alaka, who works in a financial institution, said her husband constantly gives her silent treatment, even when there are pressing issues that need his attention.

“I am tired of his behaviour; I don’t think I can manage his weakness any longer. There are times I want to discuss issues that concern our marriage but anytime I think about how he would respond to me, I get discouraged immediately. He keeps mute whenever I pour out my feelings about how I feel about the silent treatment he gives me. It is really unfair; I don’t deserve how he is treating me” she said.

Alaka also added that many of her friends advised her to seek help from a marriage counselor, but she thinks it is a waste time.

She stated that in the first year of their marriage, her husband started to give her a taste of silent treatment but she thought he would soon do away with the attitude.

“I was wrong; we have been married for five years but it is not getting any better. If I had known, I would have done something about the attitude at the beginning. I would have forced him to stop it or reported him to his parents,” she said.

According to psychologists, silent treatment, also known as ignoring, giving the ‘cold shoulder’ with other varying descriptions, is a technical term of ‘unresponsiveness,’ and considered a form of psychological and emotional abuse.

A psychologist at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Mr. Tochukwu Orjiakor, said it could be assumed that the one who exhibits this hurtful treatment to his or her partner may not be fully aware of the implications on their future relationship.

“I highly recommend that those currently practising this type of abuse find alternative methods of dealing with the issues and possibly avoid a future meltdown in their marriage. When a partner gives his or her spouse the silent treatment, it tells the spouse that they are not important; it is punishing the other in vengeful style. It tells the partner that there is no compromise – either my way or the highway; and it brings insecurity and lack of trust into the marriage,” he said.

He noted that in a marriage, a partner could use the silent treatment as a passive aggressive way of punishing the other. Orjiakor added that instead of trying to resolve a problem, the silent treatment could be employed to try and get the other person to give in or to avoid the problem altogether.

“The ‘silent treatment’ can harm your marriage. It’s a form of emotional abuse that can make your spouse feel hurt, unloved, confused, and perhaps the most damaging – ignored. It is therefore important to know that the silent treatment isn’t actually a treatment. It may be effective at getting your spouse to give in to your needs, but at what cost? It doesn’t solve the underlying issue that brought you to that place; in fact it creates more issues. ” he said.

For spouses that are bearing the brunt of the attitude, Orjiakor advised them to do away with the ‘attacking game.’

“No one likes to feel attacked, especially men. The natural response is to defend oneself and the likely response is to attack back or shut down. Whenever you want to raise an issue let it be done in subtle manner. Let your partner know that you want to clarify something so that the two of you can have a better understanding,” he said.

Unlike Akala who is ready to quit her union because of the silent treatment her husband is giving her, Mr. Hudson Ebere, said he would try to make his wife stop the attitude because ending his marriage cannot be an option.

Ebere, a businessman, said though he detests his wife’s silent treatment, he would not want his wife to leave him if he were the one doing so to her.

He said, “My wife can be a little annoying sometimes. There are times I would be discussing an issue with her but she would remain quiet. She would not utter a word. It gets me really annoyed but whenever that happens I tell myself that she is my wife.

“I am already in the game with her. I cannot divorce her because of that. I am hoping that one day, she would change. I have told her several times that I don’t like the silent treatment she is giving me.”

Orjiakor added that spouses coping with such attitude from their partners could escape from it without getting stressed by immersing themselves in positive things.

“The whole aim is to distract oneself from feeling overwhelmed by the silent treatment. Your list could include listening to good music, exercising, watching your favourite comedy shows and reading,’’ he said.

Mr. Kunle Babatunde admitted that he gives his wife the silent treatment once in a while, but that he does it when his wife gets him upset.

“I try not to talk when I am upset and my wife hates that. She prefers I talk about how I am feeling. I am not someone that talks a lot. I prefer to keep my emotions bottled up,” he said.

Advising couples, an expert in psychology, Dr. Uzondu Chinemere, said healthy communication in marriage is the solution to silent treatment.

He said, “Unresolved conflict is one of the most common reasons people seek help for their marriage. Often, a lack of healthy communication skills in marriage can lead to couples saying and doing things that can be damaging to their marriage. Unresolved conflict can build up over time and lead to more anger, frustration, and resentment which can dissolve your connection.

“That is why it’s important that you take action now for your sake and for the sake of your children (who are watching and know just when the silent treatment is being given), and fix the greater, underlying marriage disconnect that is going on.”

While many factors take part in causing the silent treatment behaviour in a spouse, Chinemere noted it is apparent that continuing such behavior will lead to deeper wounds and scars in the relationship.

“A partner on the receiving end of silent treatment is forced into isolation from the love and support of the other. Who would want to live with a spouse who is hurting their feelings and causing them pain,” he said.

Like Orjiakor, Chinemere also advised spouses on the receiving end not to attack their partners or confront them in a manner they wouldn’t appreciate

He said, “It is important that you reassure your spouse who gives you the silent treatment that you do want to know what’s on his or her mind and that he or she doesn’t have to be afraid of your reaction. Of course, if he or she does take the risk to speak up, you must not react badly to what he has expressed.”

The psychologist also said couples battling with silent treatment would need to learn some healthier ways to confront issues.

He said they would need to find a workable solution for them. He, however, added that silent treatment from a spouse is a behaviour evolving over months or years and could take many months to replace with better attitudes.

“A spouse at the receiving end should remember to take responsibility for whatever issue their partners are raising,” he said.

Also, a psychologist, Dr. Valentine Ezeh, said couples should refrain from engaging in tit-for-tat silence.

He said it pays to make an effort to speak to the other person whenever the need arises about everyday matters.

“When you talk to them, be sure to use your normal delivery and tone of voice. Do not be tempted into trying to beat them at their own game, for they are experts at it and it will ultimately get you nowhere in terms of ending such behaviour,” he said.

Famous quote

Giving someone the silent treatment speaks volumes about your character – Cleveland Clinic physician, Ralph Downey

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.