When to walk away from your relationship
A broken relationship is better than a broken marriage. These signs should tell you when to leave a bad relationship

Physical abuse

According to relrules.com, if your partner is physically hurting or abusing you continuously without repenting, then you should leave that relationship while you still have the means to do so because your life and your mental health is on the line. There is no excuse for physical abuse. When there is physical and mental abuse in a relationship, then that relationship is heading for destruction.

Addiction

Addiction is a real mental health issue and it should never be taken lightly. If your partner is struggling with an addiction, then advise him or her to get professional help immediately because your partner may drag you down with them. But if they refuse, then that is a sign that they don’t want to be helped.

Too much lying and deceit

There should always be a healthy practice of openness and honesty in a relationship. When you notice that your partner is constantly hiding things from you, confront them and make them see reasons your relationship has to be based on trust. If they refuse to change, then it is time to leave that relationship because you can never know where you stand with a liar and a deceiver.

Cheating

A relationship can never be sustainable if there are consistent cases of cheating. Being in a relationship requires a lot of commitment, dedication, and loyalty to a single person and to a single relationship. If your partner keeps cheating on you, it only shows that he doesn’t regard you. If he or she doesn’t make an effort to map out your lives together, then your relationship isn’t going anywhere.

You always argue

You keep arguing about the same things over and over again. You can never seem to come to a resolution or conclusion on important issues and so you have the same fights constantly. If your partner is not willing to budge and compromise, then you two are not meant to be together.

No respect

Relationship is always built on a foundation of mutual respect. There is no way you will have a functional relationship with one another if you don’t respect each other. If your partner doesn’t respect you in any way, that only means that he or she doesn’t love you. You respect whom you love.

Less communication

Communication has the power to fix a lot of problems in a relationship. When a couple is always willing to talk to each other, then the couple maintains an open mind about love and life. However, when there is no communication in a relationship, then there is also no emotional connection there anymore.

Your partner is selfish

If your partner is overly selfish, then there is a need to have a rethink about your relationship. Relationships are a give-and-take kind of situation, you always have to be thinking about the welfare of your partner and of the relationship. If your partner only thinks about his or herself, that relationship won’t last long.

No talk about the future

You have to be able to discuss the future of your relationship as a couple. If your partner always avoid talking about his or her future with you, that means they don’t see you in it. Instead of wasting your time and efforts, you should walk out of that relationship, because only then will you meet someone who wants you in their life.

You’ve grown apart

According to dailymail.co.uk, when you start struggling to have a meaningful conversation with your partner, that is a signal that you both need to work on your relationship. But when you realise that you have grown apart and want different things in life, then it is time to walk away. Although it is not easy, but it is better to have a more fulfilled life.

It’s not a partnership

A relationship should be balanced with each partner supporting and being there for each other no matter what. If your partner requires you to be there for them all the time when they need you but are never there when you need them, then you should probably start thinking about moving on.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]