I was sad to be pregnant again but having twins made me happy – Adeyemi
A writer, Mrs. Stella Adeyemi, shares her experiences as a mother of twins with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

When were you delivered of your twins?

They were born on December 17, 2016 a few days to Christmas. They are my Christmas gifts from God. I couldn’t have asked Him for better gift. I cherish my twins.

What are their names?

Their names are Marvelous Praise Oluwadamilare Adeyemi (male) and Melodious Peace Oluwadarasimi Adeyemi (female).

Are their sexes what you prayed for?

Yes, I desired to have a boy and a girl when I learnt that I was pregnant with twins.

Did you ever think you would have twins?

I never thought I would give birth to twins. Whenever I prayed, I asked God to bless me with twins. Deep within me, I wanted a boy and a girl. However, I was ready to accept whatever sex I got — same or opposite sex. I am so grateful to God for granting my heart’s desires. I chose to have faith in Him and He granted my desire. Though they share a slight resemblance but they are not so much identical. I am glad I do not get confused by their facial resemblance. They have very striking differences too. For instance, my daughter has much hair while her twin brother’s hair is scanty. Also, the girl is lighter in complexion than her twin brother.

Do they have different personalities?

It would surprise you to know that despite being their mother, I’m still in the study process. This is because they come up with something new in addition to their lists of character traits every month. As a month is about to end, I start getting prepared for a new trait and new move.

For example, my son is an extrovert. He makes friends at first sight; he plays and laughs a lot. His twin sister on the other hand is an introvert. She spends time observing people before she becomes friendly with them. She is only friendly if she likes you.

Which of them takes after you?

That would definitely be my daughter.

How was your pregnancy journey?

My pregnancy journey was smooth, aside the usual pregnancy challenges. I thank God the journey ended well. Throughout the period I was pregnant, I kept working; I only skipped work whenever I had to go for my antenatal care. A day before they were born, I went to work. I must say, God showed me mercy and gave me grace and strength. Some women who are pregnant with twins stop work at an early stage of their pregnancy. I’m glad I fought to the end.

When did you learn you were pregnant with twins and what was your reaction?

I knew I was pregnant with twins when my pregnancy was six weeks. At the initial stage of my pregnancy, I was not happy, reason being that I wasn’t prepared for it. My first baby was just eight months old; I felt very sad about being pregnant. But after my scan result showed that I was pregnant with twins, I became so happy. Everything about me changed. In fact, whoever saw me before I went in for the scan and saw me when I came out, would have wondered what miracle took place in the scan room.

What didn’t you like about your body while you were pregnant?

My tummy looked quite big. It became long and protruded. If I get the opportunity to be pregnant again, I will gracefully go through it and thank God. But I think I am happy with what I have now. I pray that God should have mercy on those in need of fruits of the womb. Every woman who desires to be a mother deserves to be happy.

What food did you crave for during pregnancy?

I craved for things I could not eat such as cake, ice cream and wine.

What has been your experience of motherhood?

Motherhood has been extremely wonderful though it has been challenging because of work and economic constraints. But God has been so good to me.

What do you love about being a mother?

The joy that comes with having my children flock around me is unspeakable.

How do you balance being a mother of twins with your career?

Balancing between my family and career has not been easy. Training twins is not an easy task. But when there is a will, there will always be a way. Being a mother is a journey I have chosen to embark on. I have no choice other than to ensure I give my best.

What is your advice to other women who are currently pregnant with twins?

The joy of having two lives growing simultaneously inside you cannot be expressed. Every day you sleep and wake up knowing that you have two lives in you; that fact should bring you immeasurable joy. It is that joy that keeps you going in spite of whatever challenge you may face through as a result of the pregnancy. People say raising twins is expensive but God has a way of caring for them. Mothers-to-be, especially those pregnant with twins, should not be scared of how to care for them. Being a mother to lovely twins makes you a special person.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]