My wife has sacrificed a lot for me — Ubani
A former President of the Nigerian Bar Association, Ikeja branch, Mr. Monday Ubani and his wife, Faurstina, share their love story with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

You have been married for 21 years. What is the secret?

Monday: I believe our secret is tolerance and understanding. Love makes two people get married but tolerance and understanding keeps them together. Couples must not be too judgmental with themselves; they must go out of their way to please themselves. Each of them must show commitment towards their marriage. Every day, their love has to be renewed. But above all, it is God that has kept us together. Quarrels should not make a spouse deprive his or her partner what is rightfully theirs. Each person must perform their responsibilities.

Faurstina: I believe love, tolerance, loyalty and acceptability are what have kept my marriage till date. I love my husband even when it is not convenient. When I was getting married, I told myself my marriage must work. I thank God for keeping us together till date.

Can you still remember where you met her?

Monday: Yes, I met her through a friend. We both used to stay at Opebi, Lagos. My friend knew my wife’s family. The rest today is history.

Was she everything you wanted in a woman when you first met?

Monday: After graduating from the university, I was clear about the type of woman I wanted to spend the rest of my life with and my wife happened to meet the criteria. I wasn’t looking for a rich lady who would feed me. I was searching for a partner who would take care of our children. Above all, I wanted a lady who is God-fearing. I had prayed over the matter and felt at peace about my decision to make her my wife. I really desired to marry a God-fearing lady because such a person wouldn’t leave the marriage when the going gets tough.

Faurstina: Yes, he was everything I wanted in a man. I always desired to get married to a God-fearing man. Growing up, I watched my parents relate with themselves and I admired their union. My dad truly loved my mother. I told myself that whoever I would fall in love with, I must love that person endlessly. I would overlook his flaws and faults.

What attracted you to her?

Monday: Her beautiful, youthful looks, and also her love for God. She is blessed with an elegant look. I also love her height.

How did you propose to her?

Monday: Honestly I can’t recall (smiles). But I know I made it known to her that I wanted to spend the rest of my life with her at the early stage of our relationship.

What challenges did you face in marriage and how did you overcome them?

Monday: The first five years of every marriage is challenging. It is a period when couples get to know themselves better. But we had quarrels that didn’t last for long. One of the issues we had at the early stage of our marriage was to understand each other’s psychology. Being older than her, the way I reason is different from the way she reasons. I had to understand the way women reason. The way a man reacts to an issue is different from the way a woman would react to the same issue. But with God on our side, we have been able to sail through trying times.

Faurstina: It is very true. The first three to five years of every marriage is always challenging. I am an organised person. I like things to be done in a certain way. For example, I squeeze toothpaste from the bottom – that is how meticulous I am. He starts from the middle, it used to be an issue but we have overcome it. Because I have made up my mind that my marriage must work, I had to become more tolerant and understanding.

Who apologises first when you have misunderstandings?

Monday: Either of us apologises first, but most times my wife does first because she doesn’t like tension. She always insists that we talk over issues.

How do you handle female admirers?

Monday: I am born again Christian which makes me lead a life of a role model. Also, for the fact I am a public figure, there are a lot of people looking up to me. Overtime, I have come to realise that ‘women matter’ is a sensitive matter; one must be careful. Back to your question, handling the opposite sex is not a problem for me.

How do you manage being married to a public figure?

Faurstina: That has never been a challenge for me, maybe because I watched him grow. I know I play a major role in the growth. I have never seen anything that he does as a challenge. Every day I pray for him to soar high. I am used to the fame that comes with being Barrister Ubani’s wife. I think it is one of the blessings God has given to me.

What are your wife’s weaknesses?

Monday: She has improved a great deal but at a time, she used to be short-tempered. She got easily angered but she no longer does no matter the situation. Also, back then, whenever she wanted to ask me for a thing, she said it in a manner that portrayed that it was her right to have that. Overtime, we have come to understand ourselves.

Faurstina: I can’t think of any weakness in him.

Would you mind if your wife earns more than you do?

Monday: I would not have minded but it should not be a prayer point for any man. It is not something I pray for. God made us men to be the head of the family. However, if for example my wife becomes the president of this country, I would not fight against it. There are some instances when it happens that a wife earns more than her husband but there has to be clear understanding between both of them. But I would rather prefer I earn more than my wife so I can provide for her. This however does not mean I do not wish my wife to prosper.

Do you disagree on how to discipline your children?

Monday: It happened on one or two occasions. One night, I came home and met her disciplining our last child. I felt the punishment was too much. When I voiced out my feelings about her action, she felt offended. But it happened only once. Most times, we agree on ways to discipline our children.

What is the most valuable gift you gave her?

Monday: I have bought her many gifts; she loves good clothes though. Whenever I travel abroad, I shop for her. I know her taste in clothes – the size and colours she likes. I also buy her cars. I remember buying her a Pathfinder many years ago. She loved the car.

Faurstina: Yes, he has bought me many gifts. Every gift he buys for me is beautiful and valuable.

What are those things you do to look attractive to him?

Faurstina: I think you should ask him that (smiles). Well, as I said earlier, I am an organised person. You won’t catch me wearing my night gown at 8am. As soon as I get off from bed, I take a shower and look good. You can’t catch me unawares. I make a conscious effort to look good. I know I am married to a public figure so I must look smart all the time.

Who is the bathroom singer between the two of you?

Monday: I love music and I have a good voice. In fact, I still sing in church. She also sings, but not as often as I do in the bathroom. Between the two of us, I think I am the one that sings the most at home.

What are your pet names?

Monday: I call her honey.

Faurstina: I call him Nkem.

How often do you take her out?

Monday: She doesn’t enjoy going out anymore. This is because she always prefers we save money. But when she is in the mood, I go all out to spoil her. I am always at her beck and call whenever she wants me to take her out.

What has kept you in love with her till date?

Monday: This is a woman that has sacrificed a lot for me. Raising a family is not an easy task. I am into many projects; I am always engaged. She ensures our children are cared for. She prepares them for school and picks them up. She stands in for me whenever I am busy. She ensures our kids are raised in a God-fearing manner. She is such a supportive wife.

What is your advice to young couples?

Faurstina: If you know what you want in marriage, make up your mind to achieve that thing. Since I got married to my husband, I’ve had nothing less than 10 relatives living with us. You can ask me how I manage them. At the moment, all of them are graduates. I have never for once reported any of them to my husband and this is because I should be able to manage my home. If I love him, I must love what he has. Loving someone means loving their flaws. Couples need to go back to the Bible and understand how God designed marriage to be. A woman has a great role to play in the success of her marriage. She can make or break her marriage. I love my husband; he would never condemn or scold me outside.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]