After I put to bed, my swag dropped — Fabunmi
An entrepreneur, Mrs. Grace Fabunmi, shares her experience as a mother with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

What was your first thought when you discovered you were pregnant?

I was extremely excited because the joy of marriage is to have children. I was overwhelmed with joy at the thought of a newborn growing in my womb. I have always admired kids and I love being in their midst. At a point, my sister’s kids were assumed to be mine because of the way I interacted and cared for them.

When was your daughter born?

My daughter came into the world on September 1, 2017. Her birth fell on the Eid-el-Fitri celebration, popularly known as ‘Sallah.’ It was on a Friday and the beginning of the “ember” months. My husband is a Muslim and he usually celebrates Sallah in his family house. On that day, my husband and I were preparing to join his family for the morning prayers at their family house in Surulere, Lagos. I was already dressed with the intention of getting enough Sallah meat for myself. Immediately we left the house, I started feeling a slight pain and I told my husband that the pain was unusual. We both agreed that on our way back from his family house, we would see the doctor. The hospital I registered in is few kilometers away from our house and also on the same route to my husband’s family house. On our way, I discovered that my cloth was wet. I became nervous and scared at the same time because I had not experienced such before. The good thing was that all happened close to the hospital on our way to the family house for the Sallah celebration.

My husband suggested we make a quick stop at the hospital to make sure the baby was fine. Immediately the nurse sighted me, she burst into laughter. I said to myself, “Is this nurse okay?” She was just laughing, obviously because of the way I dressed. Later, she asked me to walk round the hospital for a while before I was ushered into the delivery room. A few hours later, I was delivered of my baby. The nurse was the first to give her the name “Abiodun.” Indeed, her birth was miraculous.

Describe your labour experience.

Firstly, I want to thank God for his guidance and protection during pregnancy.

I call it a sweet experience because I didn’t suffer any injury in the course of having my child. My baby is of a normal size and her delivery was not as difficult as expected. The nurses encouraged me during the labour process.

How did you choose your baby’s name?

We already had the names written down when the pregnancy was three months old. In fact, we had to surf names online and we picked few ones in the holy book. While we were preparing and surfing the Internet, the baby must have been smiling at us. The baby would have said, “Mum and dad, please chill. I will pick my names myself.” Since she was born on Sallah day, we christened her Abiodun.

What was the most difficult part of pregnancy?

At the initial stage of about 0-7 months, it was fun and exciting because I felt normal. But afterwards, it became a bit difficult. I am a very strong woman because I can endure pain without complaining. My husband is a good cook, and sometimes, he gets things done without asking me. Intentionally, I made him do some things and he didn’t complain a bit. Rather, he would joke and crack me up. He is a good comedian. Sometimes, I felt like my body was not mine anymore. Sometimes, I felt a very sharp pain and I would have to appeal to my husband to help me rub my legs and hands. When I visited my mum, I spent a few days and my sister’s children were around for the long holiday. One of her children is a 12-year-old who helped in massaging my legs and palms to ease pain.

Jokingly, he would say, “Aunty Grace, please go to your husband’s house and tell him to help you with your legs and hands because I am tired.” People were kind to me during my pregnancy. I didn’t have to queue at ATM points and in banking halls. I usually went to the front row to show off my protruded belly and they would immediately allow me in.

What types of food were you eating during pregnancy?

I took lots of water and fruits as advised by the doctor and those who had experienced the stage. As for food, I ate normal African delicacies such as amala, rice, yam and egg, spagetti, beans etc. Sometimes I took ice cream, pizza, dessert and cakes etc. not all the time though.

What funny experience can you recall while you were pregnant?

I was preparing food for my husband in the kitchen. The food was almost done and I had to taste it to ensure that the salt I added was enough. I tasted it and I discovered that the salt wasn’t enough. I forgot that my taste bud had changed during pregnancy. I poured “enough” salt and my husband was in the room awaiting the food. I served the food with the excitement of getting a “waoh” response after consumption. But his reaction was funny.

He said, “Wifey, if I have ever offended you knowingly or unknowingly, please accept my sincere apologies, you shouldn’t have gotten back this way.” I asked him to explain what he meant. We laughed about it when he told me the salt was too much. Thereafter, I had to call him to add salt each time I wanted to cook.

What is your most challenging experience as a first-time mother?

My swag has dropped. I may pick it up later, that is if the baby allows it. First, my child is the priority before any other person. Now I experience countless sleepless nights. I wake up several times in the middle of the night to breastfeed her. Most times, I have to stay awake in the house because she doesn’t sleep at night. She sleeps during the day. I have no choice than to adjust to her “time zone.” Also, the consistent changing of diapers during the night is another experience. She eats, baths and dresses before I do. In fact, she does everything before I do. That is quite an experience and not a challenge.

What are some things you have observed in taking care of her?

Learning is a continuous process. She is my first child and few weeks old. I am still observing and learning from what my mum and mother-in-law are putting me through. The few lessons I learnt is to carefully observe the child and know what she wants. Sometimes, she cries and it is not because she wants food. Sometimes it might be stomach upset and if you are not careful, you might panic and do the wrong thing. Sometime ago, my baby was crying and I never knew it was a stomach pain. I was worried and I had to call the attention of my mum. Immediately, she told me to get a medicine at a registered pharmacy and when she took it, she became calm. Also, at a point I tried breastfeeding her and she was rejecting it and I was wondering why. My mum asked if she had defecated and I said no. She told me the drug I should use and immediately I did, she was relieved. Sometimes, I wonder how she knows all these things without the baby saying a word. Many things come with child care and you need to keep learning until you get it right. Currently, I still get the same treatment from my mum. She is always on my case. Sometimes she treats me like a newborn. She checks on me regularly to make sure I am okay. She does that every 30 minutes.

What part of your body changed during pregnancy that you didn’t like?

I use to fight my hubby when he called me ‘Orobo’ (fat woman). I added few pounds of flesh on my cheek and tummy. I am seriously working towards shedding the baby fat and the result is gradually becoming obvious. I really want to snap back. I can’t afford to change my wardrobe now. I don’t want to exaggerate. I have many clothes that I have not worn and they are expensive.

Some new moms are usually overprotective of their babies. Is this the same with you?

There is an adage that goes thus “It takes a community to raise a child.’’ If you consider the pain you went through in the course of bringing your child into the world, you wouldn’t want anyone to touch that child. But if you want a better life for your child, you need people to assist you in training him or her. You can’t always be around the child because at some point, he/she will meet different people in his/her journey in life. They will be the one to watch over him/her when you are not there. Well, I am a first-time mum. I may not speak the minds of those that already have three or four kids. My opinion is this, I can’t and I will not overindulge my kids.

How is your husband coping as a first-time father?

My husband and I share the same vision and we have something in common in terms of raising kids. He loves kids a lot and he can go the extra mile to ensure that kids get the best. I won’t regard him as a first-time father because wherever there are children, you find him in their midst. During my pregnancy, he played a vital role. We do the “vigil” together, sometimes when I feel lazy to get up to do house chores, he is always there to assist. He prepared the food sometimes.

How many hours of sleep do you get at night?

It’s been marathon vigils. To be honest with you, I have not had a sound sleep since the delivery of my child. Mum told me that over time, she would change. I can’t wait to see her grow faster. The maximum rest I have had so far is two to three hours at night because she doesn’t sleep at night except on few occasions.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]