I was in labour for 30 hours — Mother of twins
A health information officer, Mrs. Rukayat Obidiran, talks about her experiences as a mother of twins with MOTUNRAYO JOEL

When were you delivered of your twins?

They were born on July 28, 2016. I call them my angels.

How did you receive the news of your twin pregnancy?

I was surprised when the doctor said I was pregnant with twin girls. Whenever I tell people that I pushed out my twins, they do not believe me. I also can’t believe I gave birth naturally. I found out when I was four months pregnant. The news came as a shock to me. I pleaded with the doctor to run another scan and the result still showed that I was pregnant with twins. Even my husband didn’t believe me when I told him the news over the phone. We were both elated about the news. I’ve always admired twin girls. I count myself blessed to be among the lucky mothers of twins. They bring me much joy.

How was your pregnancy journey?

It was good to be honest. The only thing I didn’t like was that I constantly produced excessive saliva. I felt uncomfortable about it. Producing excessive saliva is a norm in pregnancy which usually stops at a woman’s second trimester, but my case was different. It continued up till when I put to bed. I also got irritated easily. I could not wait to put to bed. I must say, the entire process and my nine months of pregnancy were emotionally intense, bringing out an immense amount of strength and resolve in me that I did not know I possessed.

How did you manage to deliver two babies naturally?

It was extremely challenging. I was in labour for 30 hours.

Why didn’t you opt to have your babies through caesarean operation?

I never wanted to have them through CS. Although when labour pains grew stronger, I became tired. I began to pray to God to grant me strength. My doctor was very encouraging. He said since I managed to carry the pregnancy up to 35 weeks despite being a first-time mother, having my babies naturally would not be impossible. He said most twins are born at the seventh month of pregnancy. He believed in me; he kept telling me I could have them naturally. I was in serious pains. I also remembered what my mother used to tell me about childbirth. I was happy when I put to bed. I initially thought they would come out at the same time. When one of the twins came out, I was happy. I thought both of them were out, but the nurse said the other twin was yet to come out. I became scared. The doctors managed to put their hands inside me and reached the baby.

How did feel when you held your babies for the first?

Words can’t describe how I felt that moment. I felt so blessed. I also felt love in different ways and I was grateful to God for my girls and for that day. When I held them in my arms, I thought about the journey and the pains before delivery. I then I said to myself that it was worth it. I have been so appreciative to God and my husband for everything. Being a mother to my adorable daughters is great. The feeling and connection with my children is amazing.

What is motherhood like?

Being a mother is a great job. I would not trade my role for anything. It makes one feel joyful, elated, empowered and invincible. You’ve just pushed another human being out of your body (for me two human beings) and you’re unprepared for all the things that come so quickly. It’s an exciting time because of the newness of the experience but it is also a time of great uncertainty. It’s the first time we realise that it’s possible to love someone so much. Motherhood for me has been a jolly ride. After I put to bed, there were times when I was all alone with my twins; I had no help. My husband works in another state. Nursing a baby is not an easy job but the beauty about it is that it brings a mother joy to see her baby alive and healthy. Every day, I thank God that my babies are growing beautifully well.

Some mothers experience panic attacks the first few nights after the birth of their babies. Did that happen to you?

I did not experience any panic attacks. Some of my friends said they did but that did not happen to me.

What types of food did you crave during your pregnancy?

I loved to eat beans. I could eat beans three times a day.

What are their names?

Rahman and Rahimah.

Have you studied their personalities?

Yes, my first twin girl is on the quiet side while my second twin girl is troublesome. She likes to disturb her twin sister. She takes after me though I’m not too troublesome.

What is your advice to pregnant women?

In terms of childbirth, I would advise them not to shout during labour. It may be almost impossible not to shout because of the intense pains one feels, but shouting makes you become exhausted and you need your energy to push when the time comes for your baby to be born. I believe not shouting helped me push out my babies. Whatever you are facing with your pregnancy would not last for long. They (pregnant women) should not get frustrated and do things they would regret later. They should enjoy the moment while it lasts.

What has given you the greatest joy as a mother?

My children are my joy. Watching how quickly they grow and spending time with them brings me joy. I wouldn’t exchange my two girls for the world. They changed my life and I thank them so much for that. Whenever I see them, I am filled with joy. I have come to realise that everything I do and how I react to issues affect them. That alone has taught me to be patient and mindful of my attitude and speech. Also, watching their unbridled love for life, people and their curiosity at almost every little thing amazes me. Motherhood means sacrifice, strength, being a positive role model and loving unconditionally. It also means experiencing someone else’s pain and taking it as one’s. Sometimes, I get tired due to sleepless nights but when I see them smiling I realise the sacrifice is worth it.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]