It’s difficult to beat daddy at scrabble — Sola Adeyeye’s daughter
Oluwatobi is one of the children of Senator Olusola Adeyeye. She talks about her father’s academic and political careers with GBENGA ADENIJI

Tell us about yourself.

I am Dr. Oluwatobi Amosun (nee Adeyeye), eldest daughter of Senator Olusola Adeyeye. I am a

pediatrician living in Nashville, Tennessee, United States. I have been married for over 10 years. I have two children; a girl and a boy.

What fond memories with your father can you recall while growing up?

One of my fondest memories is listening to my father singing. He has a beautiful baritone voice and I remember him singing Christian hymns in Yoruba while I was a child.

Your father is a biology professor while your mother is a pharmacist and you are a pediatrician. Did your parents influence your career choice in that regard?

Of course they did. Science was always part of our house and a frequent topic of conversation. We grew up going to the laboratory when my parents were graduate students and during their career, I watched them run experiments. While I had no desire to do research, science has always been a passion for me.

Where were the places he took his family to for relaxation?

We usually went on a lot of road trips to visit family friends. One of my favourite trips was when we took an impromptu trip to Niagara Falls and a boat ride tour under the waterfalls. My father took me to my first American football game when I was seven years old.

How did he create time for his family despite his busy schedule first as a lecturer and then a politician?

He is spontaneous. On the day of my son’s first birthday, he flew overnight from Nigeria to celebrate with us and surprised us late in the night on the doorsteps. The rest of my family members had been planning to come but I had no idea that my father was coming. It was a wonderful present from him. He is a type of man who will do that sort of thing.

How does he like to relax?

He loves to watch movies and play the word game Scrabble. One of the favourite things I did try to do with him is try to beat him in scrabble game. But it was extremely difficult.

Did his family fear for his life at anytime particularly when he started going deep into politics?

I do not particularly remember much of the details when he was involved in political activism. But I do remember when he was broadcasting on Radio Kudirat from our kitchen phone, I was worried (I was in middle school) that he would get into trouble. At the time, my 13-year-old mind did not quite understand the gravity of what he was doing at the time.

Did he ever visit you in school?

Since he is a biology professor, he was invited to lecture to my AP chemistry class during my senior year in high school. I was alternately abashed (as any teenager would be) and extremely proud of how well received he was by my friends.

Did you get preferential treatment from your colleagues and teachers when you were in school?

Never. I did not get any preferential treatment from my colleagues and teachers when I was in school. Most of them had no idea who my father was at the time. Even now, it always takes them by surprise when they find out his position in government.

Now, it takes people aback when they find out who my father is. Most of my friends in the United States are intrigued by the idea of having a father who is a senator. They always want to know more about him.

What is his idea of punishing any child who behaved?

To be honest, the worst punishment from my father was when he would talk very quietly to any child who misbehaved. That was how one knew he was very angry and disappointed. And then we would get left alone or lose a privilege.

Can you recall when he beat you and what you did if he ever used the cane?

Having to “stoop” in the corner of the room was the worst punishment that my father ever gave me.

Did he counsel his children on the kind of person to marry?

Our parents used to raise dust in a way that I believe caused us to have good judgment as to choosing our spouses. I do not remember any specific conversations that we had, but I knew that whoever I would bring home to meet my parents would have to be very special.

What kind of music does he like to listen to?

My father likes to listen to any gospel music. He also enjoys the music of King Sunny Ade.

What is his work schedule like?

My father’s work schedule is erratic, as far as I can tell. He is a very hard-working person and often has irregular working hours.

How has your father’s name opened doors for you?

In the United States, especially since he tends to spend most of his time in Nigeria, and since I have change my maiden name after marriage, most of my daily interaction is not influenced. In Nigeria it is a different situation. His name makes things more comfortable in general.

Who were the regular faces in your house while you were growing up?

I remember that Uncle (Prof.) Wole Soyinka usually visited us several times. That was always a treat.

What are the ideals you have learnt from him?

One of the values I have learnt from my father is to show integrity in everything I do. Also, I have imbibed generosity from him.

How close are you to him?

My father and I are close and I go to him and my mother for counsel and support.

What is his favourite drink?

My father’s favourite drink used to be Fanta I think. But he does not drink soda anymore.

What is his favourite food?

My father’s favourite meal is anything that my mother makes for him.

How sociable is he?

He is always the life of the party. He is very often invited to speak at weddings and social events. He has the gift of the garb. He is also a brilliant orator. My father has a charity for orphans called Sarah’s Home named after his late mother.

What kind of father is he?

My father is someone that is firm, uncompromising and generous. He once took a Chinese cooking class and made us dumplings.

How did you feel when he won his party ticket to contest for the Osun Central senatorial seat and eventually won the election?

I am proud that he dealt with injustices and continued to tackle corruption in a manner that was consistent with his political career thus far.

Your father once described the nation’s federal lawmakers as ‘legislooters.’ Do you think he still holds the same view now that he is fully part of them as a member of the Senate?

I still consider my father to be one of the few honest men in Nigerian politics. As he has been doing since he was a graduate student at the University of Georgia, he continues to combat corruption.

Did he tell you why he participated in the stoppage of the third term agenda of former President Olusegun Obasanjo?

No. he did not tell me why he was involved in the stoppage of the third term agenda of ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo.

How do you feel whenever he expresses his view on the state of the nation?

I am proud that he lives and breathes for Nigeria.

How does he handle disagreements with his wife?

My father handles disagreements with his wife with laughter.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]