I thank God for my wife’s patience because it’s not easy to live with me — Adegboruwa
A human rights activist and lawyer, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, shares his fatherhood experience with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

At what age did you become a father?

I became a father at the age of 36 years or thereabout. Because of my humble background, I could not afford to marry early enough. I grew up with my uncle in Ebute-Metta in Lagos. After my graduation from the university and subsequently from law school, it would look absurd for me to get married and still remain in my uncle’s house. I had to spend a considerable time to go through pupillage under the guidance of the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi (SAN) for about six years. My monthly salary then was not enough to take care of me and another person, such as a wife. Moreover, I needed time and resources to set up my law firm and marrying early would mean a big distraction owing to limited resources. I didn’t want my children to go through what I went through. If I had got married after I finished law school, I would have probably become a grandfather by now. My younger sister is a grandmother now. Despite the setbacks, I still thank God for the great things He has done for me.

I became a father when I newly joined the Redeemed Christian Church of God headquarters in Ebute-Metta. My wife registered at the maternity of the church for her antenatal and eventual delivery. I still remember vividly the night of February 5, 2003. I took her to the maternity earlier in the day when she went into labour. But I had to be in a court in Ikeja. I asked my sister to stay with her while I visited the court. She didn’t deliver the baby until about midnight.

I was scared as she endured labour. I had thought of staying with her in the maternity ward but as I watched her writhing in pains and crying, I could not bear it. I had to go to the main church to pray. I was praying on the altar at the RCCG headquarters when a nurse came to call me that my wife had been delivered of the baby. I took more time to thank God before I rushed to join them. It was a great relief carrying the baby. She was very big, having weighed about 4kg.

How did you meet your wife and proposed to her?

After successfully setting up my law firm, I was under intense pressure from my family to get married. Most of the female friends that I had in my university days could not wait for me. Most of them had gotten married. I didn’t have anyone that I knew good enough to take up as a wife. I became a little bit scared then to approach a new lady. Also, the nature of legal practice in Fawehinmi’s chambers made it difficult for me to socialise. I was married to my legal practice and hardly had time to mingle. I had no personal friends. I was in the office 24/7, including during public holidays and weekends. I travelled quite often and was never in one place for a long time. And since I was enjoying it, little did I realise that time was passing by.

My family wanted me to choose a wife from our local government area. Since I had not been home for a very long time, I was not familiar with any female friend from my local government as such. They then persuaded me to travel to Ondo State University, Ado-Ekiti,now Ekiti State University where I would meet potential ladies from my local government area. I travelled to Ado-Ekiti and I was made to meet and interview very many female candidates as a potential wife but I guess God was not in it. It cannot be so simple to just meet somebody within one day and decide on marriage. I was not too comfortable with the arrangement so I left without any choice and decided to face my law practice.

One day, whilst I was in my office at Lapal House on Igbosere Road in Lagos, Mrs. Sola Adegbonmire called me. She is an active member of the Nigerian Bar Association and I had been to her office to do one or two things in the past. She wanted me to oblige her with the precedent of an oil pollution case that I was handling for some clients. She said she would send somebody from her office to pick the documents from me. Lo and behold, I saw this very small but beautiful lady, sent by Mrs. Adegbonmire. It was such a great moment in my life. She was so pleasant, very humble and well brought up. The way she greeted me and made her requests known mesmerised me. I used some style to keep her waiting in my office just so I could interact with her more.

After she left, I then called Mrs. Adegbonmire to inquire about her. It was then I got to know that she had just graduated from the University of Lagos as a lawyer. Wow! What a great God, I thought to myself. It turned out that Mrs. Adegbonmire was her mentor and was very close to her family. Through Mrs. Adegbonmire, I got the lady to visit my office regularly, for legal assignments. In that process, we got to know each other better. I was then a bit comfortable financially to settle down.

What then happened?

I tried all the tricks in my head but they didn’t work with this lady. She would not agree to go out with me alone. She would not agree to visit me in my house alone. It was frustrating at first but I grew to like her more for her strength of character and convictions. Her strong Christian background also attracted me to her. I thought that any lady who met me at the time would readily agree to marry me but I met somebody for the very first time who could not be persuaded by my sweet talks and all those craps. I became more interested in her. Based on how Mrs. Adegbonmire spoke about her and her family, I was determined to win her over to my side.

I was born into a Christian family but my academic sojourn at the University of Ife, now Obafemi Awolowo University, turned me into an activist and a revolutionary. I had strayed into some kind of atheism at some point when I was the student leader in Ife. So, I truly needed a partner that would draw me closer to my Christian root. This lady just fitted perfectly into my dream. I became more interested in her when I discovered that she had no boyfriend. I was shocked to meet a law graduate of UNILAG who had no boyfriend. It now became clear to me that I had met my wife.

She had to go to Bayelsa State for her National Youth Service Corps programme. That was another point of interest to me. She was ready and willing to go and serve in any location that she was posted to and she didn’t want anyone to influence her posting back to Lagos. I travelled regularly to the popular Kaima, in Bayelsa State, to visit her. And during those visits, she insisted that I should stay in a hotel or some guest house and there would be no visitations at all. I could only visit their hostel accommodation in the presence of other youth ‘corpers’. I enjoyed those visits, especially because it gave me the opportunity of knowing Kaima, the birth place of Isaac Adaka Boro. By now, she had noticed my seriousness. She accepted my proposal during one of my visits and agreed to take me to her mother in Ogori, Kogi State. That was how it started, but it has been a long and fruitful journey.

What was it like growing up under your father?

My father was a no-nonsense man. He was a church and community leader. He was very famous in our locality. We his children had to conform to his principles at all times. My father related with me mostly through non-verbal communication. I had grown up to read his facial expressions in order to decipher his moods and preferences. Once I looked at him, I would know immediately if I had stepped out of line or not.

My father wanted me to be involved in his church activities. He bought a small trumpet for me and I became a very good trumpeter in the church.

Can you share any memorable experience with him?

I remember vividly an experience when we attended a church conference. Suddenly, one of the prophets, in the course of his ministrations, picked on my father (then a very senior prophet and church founder) and began to flog him mercilessly in the open glare of the church during the service. It was very shocking. We were wondering what my father’s offence was to get that public ridicule. It was after the service, during the interpretation of prophecies, that the prophet explained the reason for his action. The prophet said he was told to flog my father in that way in order to emphasise the need to take good care of me. He said God told him that I was a special child and my father was not doing enough to bring out the best that God wanted me to be. He said God would hold my father responsible if anything happened to me because I was a special child. We all kept wondering if the prophet could not deliver the messages without the flogging. Since then, each time that I misbehaved, my father would flog me mercilessly too, reminding me of the responsibility that God had imposed upon him on my account. He said the way he was flogged in the church would be the same way he would flog me. That indeed kept me from misbehaving.

What was your childhood dream profession and what motivated you to study law?

My childhood dream was to be like the education inspectors who visited our school in those days. At best, my dream was to be a teacher, because teachers were treated like God then. Every Wednesday for instance, after our sporting activities which we called PE, we would go fishing for the teachers, bringing back fish for them. That attracted me to the profession. There was no secondary school in my town. I had emerged the best student in primary school. When I finished secondary school, my father sent me to his younger brother in Lagos, to further my education. By the time I got to my uncle in Lagos, he got me involved in a land case between our town and our neighbouring community that was before the high court. He would take me to his lawyer’s office, then Mr. Abayomi Shogbesan (SAN), a very brilliant lawyer. My uncle would ask me to read and interpret the pleadings to him as he was the main witness and sponsor of the case. I became his personal assistant and we visited Sogbesan’s Chambers in Ijora, quite often.

It was clear I had to study law, to be like Mr. Sogbesan and his other lawyers. My uncle wanted me to study law because of the land case that was pending in court and he also had many cases in court. As of then, our town had no indigene studying law, so he wanted our family to produce the first lawyer.

What are the challenges of being a father?

The task of running and managing a law firm is not easy at all. With five children and a ministry to run, it is more difficult, as everything is not all about money. You have to strive to be available to your clients, family, and parishioners. The great sacrifice is that you lose your sleep most of the time. Most times I am in court. When I get to the office, clients are already waiting for me. And by evening, I have to rush out to attend service in the church. What it means is that I lost most of my friends. I do not associate or mingle at all.

Why didn’t you join politics?

It is not easy to serve in public offices in Nigeria. My major challenge is that you cannot serve faithfully in Nigeria and still be able to meet your responsibilities. The salary is terribly poor and we deceive ourselves, thinking that the take-home pay of our public officers is enough to meet their basic needs. The other reason is the political system. You need a godfather to contest elections and win in Nigeria. The political parties are in the hands of certain big people, who alone decide the fate of candidates for elective offices. That shouldn’t be so. What that means is that you will forever remain attached to that person and you cannot take some decisions on your own. These factors are very discouraging but now that the National Assembly is considering independent candidacy, many people would offer themselves for public office. My wife and I have resolved not to be involved in public office for now, but rather to be committed to our law practice as a ministry to help those who are in need of justice and also use our church ministry to minister to the public.

If there’s one lesson you want your kids to take from you and move on through life with, what would it be?

They should not depend on anybody but God. I want my children to use me as a good example. I did not inherit any bank account from my father. I did not inherit any land, house or car from my father. God has helped me to become a car owner and a house owner. So it is all about God and self-determination. The Yoruba say that work is the antidote to suffering. I don’t want my children to think that they don’t need to work because their father will leave houses, cars, and offices for them.

How do you reward your children’s good deeds?

Whenever a child does well, such as excelling in school or in church, we call all of them together to jointly pray for that child first. We collect the results sheet and look at them one by one and commend the child. Then we are open to any gift of his or her choice, for that occasion. We also sit together as a family to celebrate, buy pizza, snacks, wines, ice creams, etc. We sit together with their mum and we all eat together on the same plate.

What role are you playing in their career choices?

First, it runs in the family to serve God. So, I will be glad if all my children will serve God in whatever vocation they would choose for themselves. My first daughter is very impressed with my law practice and she has been to court with me on a few occasions. I will not be surprised if she becomes a lawyer like me and her mother. It’s our dream to have someone take over the law practice and continue after us.

But presently, most of the children seem to be science-inclined and we are trusting God to direct us in their career choices and I will be very liberal in guiding them appropriately.

How do you appreciate your wife?

The best appreciation to a wife is to be faithful to her and to God. I appreciate my wife with absolute transparency to the extent that she is my best friend and confidant. She knows all about me, my business and my finances and she is a signatory to our bank accounts. We are prayer partners and best of friends as we both don’t have any close personal friend other than ourselves.

I try to accommodate her, knowing that she has been the very best thing that has happened to my life apart from God, my parents and guardians. I try to make her motherhood simple, by discharging my roles as husband, father and bread winner. I like to do shopping for her, especially clothes, shoes and all. Above all, I try to do shopping on most of my trips for our kitchen and household items. I go to the market to buy fish, stop on the way to buy yam, bush meat and all the rest. It just gives me happiness to make her happy.

Being lawyers, do you argue with your wife at home?

My wife and I agree with the Biblical principles of mutual submission and love. We both agree and even counsel others that a man should be the head of the home because when two captains man a ship, it loses direction. Our children also know that God requires submission and obedience from them. Even though my wife is a lawyer, we have not had any occasion to practise law at home ever since we met. I give glory to God for her patience and tolerance because it is not easy to live with me.

How do you deal with temptations in pastoral counselling?

It is inevitable that one would come across such happenings but the RCCG has made enough provisions to prevent sin. During counselling, we were encouraged as pastors to be open. When it involves counselling the opposite sex, you have to let a third party be present. But if it is a confidential matter, the best you can do is to allow your secretary to be at the hearing or sighting view, by keeping your door open. One has to trust the Holy Spirit to help.

How do you achieve a balance between your life as a pastor and lawyer?

The work of a pastor and lawyer are very similar. Indeed most of our laws were taken from the Bible, especially from the books of Leviticus and Deuteronomy. A pastor is a counsellor and an advocate, so also a lawyer. We share people’s burdens to secure justice and remedy for them. It is easy to flow as a lawyer and as a pastor. It is easier for pastors in the RCCG because the church calendar flows easily with the court calendar. I am in court mostly during the week and on weekends, I am available for church activities. Most court sessions should be over latest by 4pm and church services start mostly in the evenings during weekdays. For all our major programmes such as our annual convention in August every year, the courts would be on their annual long vacation.

You served Fawehinmi. What advice did he give you?

One day, the late Fawehinmi called me into his inner office and shared his personal experience with me. He said that no man should be proud to depend on the income of his wife to subsidise or run the home. He said every responsible man should do his best to ensure that he takes care of everything at home. Well, that has motivated me to ensure that I take care of everything at home. But my own case is peculiar in the sense that my wife and I run our office together so we are both breadwinners and we don’t keep separate purses. We run the home and meet all our needs from the common purse. But I don’t believe that a wife should just be at home to babysit and cook food. Yes, there is a lot of impact that parents should make on their children at their tender ages. In that regard, the wife should be available to make special sacrifices on behalf of the parents. And the father should complement this often. But that does not mean that the wife should take home care as a full-time job. She should be allowed to excel while making sacrifices for the home as and when due.

Do you cook at home?

Oh yes, I have cooked many times. I don’t like eating outside. Because I grew up with my paternal and maternal grandmothers (Duduyemi and Merani), they taught me to grind pepper on local stone, to cook and to do all household chores. I am a village boy to the core. We have been labouring to get our children to be like that and not see household work as suffering or to be dependent on maids and house helps.

How do you punish your children?

I punish the children when they step out of line. The punishment depends on the magnitude of the misconduct. But my aim is to do like my father, by using facial expressions as corrective measures. I will withdraw attention from you first, as a sign of my displeasure. If you don’t get it quickly then I will call you to complain verbally but in very extreme cases of gross misconduct, I will generously apply the rod as stated in the Bible. But now you know there is the Child Rights Act so you need to be careful in that area.

What is your take on corruption in the bar? Do you think much has changed since some judges were acquitted of corruption-related charges?

To tell you the truth, it is has become a cankerworm for us all and it is fast eroding the confidence of the people in our justice system. Some of the judges are just too corrupt and they have no shame at all about it. In my over 20 years of legal practice, I have been a victim of judicial corruption on many occasions. This corruption is not about money alone please, but at times judges are pressured to tilt the scale of justice, by their relatives, politicians and in most cases even by the government. It is sad indeed.

I still believe that a majority of the judges are honest and want to be honest if given room by the politicians and their relatives outside. It is good that the NJC is doing much to weed them out but the NBA must get to that level when we can have our independent monitoring panels that can assess judges and make reports on them.

When you dragged the Lagos State Government to court over the Ikoyi bridge case during former Governor Babatunde Fashola’s era, were you threatened by anybody and did you fear your family would be attacked?

I have suffered a lot of persecution in respect and on account of my various court cases. First, it affected my commitment to my primary clients and even my family. Second, they attract undue persecution to me. During the toll gate cases, there was a strident campaign for me to relocate back to my home state. Newspaper adverts and campaigns were made for Lagosians to get me out of Lagos but thank God that the true Lagosians that I was fighting for, stood by me.

At another time, my law office was sealed off by the Lagos State Government on the pretext that I did not pay tax. I had evidence of payment of tax but we were on it for a long time. However, it turned out that former Governor Babatunde Fashola was under a lot of pressure to put me on trial, for alleged tax evasion, but when he checked the records and saw the evidence of payment, he confided in a mutual friend that he had sworn to his God never to use his official position to oppress anybody. He resisted the pressure to try me.

I know also that politicians who have sympathy for the government were on their own trying all manner of tricks to endanger my life since their own lives depended on government. Not long after I won the Ikoyi Bridge case, I was attacked in my house in Lekki in the middle of the night by armed men, who broke the window burglary to enter my bedroom. It was the grace of God, the police and the villagers surrounding me that rescued me and my family that night.

Above all these, I have lost a lot of juicy briefs on account of my principled stand on certain issues, but that is my calling and I am prepared always, to pay the sacrifices. I can only thank God, my parents, wife and children, my members of staff, clients, the press, the good people of Nigeria and indeed the RCCG, for keeping us thus far.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]