I wooed my wife in a bus — Yemi Sonde
Popular broadcaster, Yemi Sonde and his wife, Molade, speak with TOFARATI IGE about their marital experience

Can you recall how you met your spouse?

Yemi: We met in Lagos at Oshodi. We were both in a bus going to Abeokuta on that day, Tuesday, March 3, 1992. I still remember the day like it was yesterday. I was an undergraduate at the University of Ibadan then.

Was it love at first sight for you?

Yemi: Yes, it was love at first sight. Sincerely; immediately I saw her, I had some strong and unusual feelings (not lust). Something told me convincingly that, ‘Yemi this is your wife,’ and I keyed into it.

What was the point of attraction for you?

Yemi: Honestly, I really cannot place a finger on any particular thing. I was captivated by everything about her at first sight.

After knowing her better, what convinced you that she would make a good wife?

Yemi: Like I said earlier, I was convinced at my first contact with her that she would end up being my wife. Though she didn’t take me seriously for some years, but it all worked out in the end.

How did you propose to her?

Yemi: On the first day that we met, I got to the park before her. I was waiting for the next bus on the queue when I saw a very beautiful, innocent looking lady crossing the road towards where I was standing. I told myself I was going to follow her to wherever she was going even if she wasn’t heading in my direction. Luckily, she came towards the bus I was waiting for and as soon as she boarded, I didn’t waste a minute; I joined the bus and made sure I sat beside her. However, I didn’t make any move till everyone had paid their fares. When the bus took off, she was reading a novel. Even though I had seen the book she was reading before, I asked her what she was reading just to break the silence. We got talking and at a point, I just blurted out, ‘Do you know you are my wife?’ Of course she didn’t take me seriously. She replied, ‘You aren’t serious’ and she waved me off. However, our discussion got deeper and as a sharp boy, I got all her details tactically. I followed my dream for years and today, she’s in my house.

How would you describe your marital experience thus far?

Yemi: It has been awesome, I must confess. She is the only one that understands me perfectly, and I think that keeps us well. Though we’ve had times when things were not rosy, which is normal anyway, but in all, God has kept us intact and our love grows daily.

Molade: It has been really wonderful. I have had no cause to complain and I give God all the glory.

How do you celebrate special occasions?

Yemi: It depends on our mood at the particular time and what occasion we are celebrating. We don’t have a fixed way that we celebrate special occasions.

Molade: My husband is full of surprises, so it depends on the occasion we’re celebrating. But he always tries to make such special occasions enjoyable and memorable.

Can you recall the first major disagreement you had with your spouse in marriage?

Yemi: Honestly, I can’t remember. I don’t keep tabs of such things.

Molade: I really cannot remember too. Whenever we have disagreements, we quickly settle them and move on.

Who apologises first when you have disagreements?

Yemi: She does really. I have to give that to her.

Molade: I usually do. You know men have their ego. But at times, even if he doesn’t say anything, his expression passes the message.

In what ways did you have to adjust to being a married couple?

Yemi: I am an extrovert, while she is more of an introvert. She doesn’t like going out and being in the public glare but somehow, we have been able to balance things.

Molade: It actually came naturally to me. The longer we lived together, the more we got to understand each other better and adjust accordingly.

Do you operate a joint bank account?

Yemi: No, we have never considered that.

Molade: Just like he said, we have never thought about it. We don’t have issues with our finances.

Do you have pet names for each other?

Yemi: Yes. I call her Iya (mother), and she calls me Husband mi (my husband).

What do you do to renew the love in the marriage?

Yemi: I make sure that I do the things I know she loves. Honestly, we are best of friends, and we have our own special style of renewing the special bond we share.

Molade: We always remind each other about how much we mean to one another. We don’t take each other for granted and we appreciate every moment spent together. My husband is very romantic so he knows how to always keep the spark in our marriage aglow.

What’s your most memorable experience in marriage?

Yemi: That would be the day we had our first child. The joy I felt on that day is indescribable.

Molade: Like I said earlier, my husband is very romantic and he is full of surprises. There are so many memorable experiences that I cannot even single out one right now. Every moment spent with him is memorable.

What do you think are the most important things to be done to sustain a marriage?

Yemi: There are a lot of things that one has to do to sustain a happy home but I would mention a few. You have to understand each other very well, and show genuine love at all times. You should also not forsake prayer and make God the pillar of your home. Lastly, a forgiving spirit is non-negotiable; do not bear grudges.

Molade: You should do everything together in love and also respect one another.

How do you cope with your female fans as a married man?

Yemi: I relate with them normally; the same way I do with every other person. I always treat them with respect.

How many children do you have and how have they impacted on your marriage?

Yemi: The Yoruba have a saying that you do not count children for the parents, but we thank God for the wonderful kids He has blessed us with.

Molade: We have lovely boys, and they are wonderful gifts from God.

What advice can you give to young ones out there who just got married or are about to take the plunge?

Yemi: You must have it at the back of your mind that marriage is not a bed of roses. Rather, prayer, genuine love, understanding and forgiveness should actually be your guide.

Molade: Put God first in whatever you do. Know that there would always be good and bad times, but if you are faithful, you would weather the storms.

How do you unwind?

Yemi: I love to spend quality time with my friends and family, depending on my mood.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]