I encourage my kids to cultivate the gift of the gab — Obahiagbon
Politician and lawyer, Mr. Patrick Obahiagbon, shares his fatherhood experience with GBENGA ADENIJI

How have you been able to combine fatherhood with being a politician?

Combining fatherhood with active politics is not a tea party at all especially when your children are still in their impressionable age and you need to have the eyes of the mythical Argus to give you enough elbow room for regular paternalistic interventions.

But I have been blessed with a very loving and meticulous wife who has per force had to play both the role of a mother and father when I am not around. And my looming image as a martinet even when I am away from home has helped positively in steering the family along the expected trajectory.

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood of course can be defined as the state of being a father which broadly means providing and caring for the legitimate needs of your family. It means for me a willingness to provide a laudable moral, ethical and spiritual compass that will act as their bulwark in the course of their vicissitudinal peregrinations and unfoldment of their respective soul personalities. This for me is a compelling divine responsibility and privilege to be able to care, guide and provide for soul personalities that has incarnated into this earth plane by the grand architect of the universe using you as a cosmic vehicle.

What things prepared you for fatherhood?

The circumstance of my birth has largely played a lingering force in my preparation for fatherhood. My parents showed and still do show me (I am happy to still have both of them alive to God’s special grace) tremendous affection and love even though that did not stop them from moulding me along the “salomenian narrow path.” This has been the model adopted in my family husbandry ceteris paribus.

What was your greatest fear before you became a father?

My greatest fear and prayers while preparing for fatherhood was for the cosmic to bless me with cosmic abundance to be able to tender after the legitimate and righteous needs of my family because it can be indeed emotionally macadamising, when you fail in your family responsibilities.

Those who are blessed by God to discharge their fundamental family duties should be forever grateful to the Lord and pray for others to be able to so do. You really don’t want to know what other families are passing through in this country due to no fault of theirs. My heart goes to such families while I continuously thank God for His grace.

How did you feel the first time you held your first child in your hands?

It was an exhilarating feeling for me the first time I held my first child and as a matter of fact, that is the same feeling that has impacted on my solar plexus whenever I was thus favoured by the great geometrician of the universe.

How did you create time for your family while serving as a member of the National Assembly and later Chief of State to ex- Governor Adams Oshiomhole?

It was a bit easier creating time for my family when I was a member of the National Assembly than when I served as Chief of Staff to Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and this was because my family is domiciled in Abuja. I certainly did not have the latitude of coming to Abuja from Benin regularly due to the nature of my very demanding duties as Chief of Staff to the Comrade Governor who himself is a workaholic. It was indeed a pleasurable moment for me as it afforded me the opportunity to interface in practical terms with the executive organ of government. I thank my wife and family who showed understanding at the call of duty.

Why do you like putting on your traditional Benin attire at formal occasions?

For a student of mysticism, nothing happens by accident and since it’s therefore not by fortuitous ambience that I was born into the land of Igodomigodo, it has been a pleasure for me to showcase the rich cultural heritage of my ancestralness. It is something both cultural and spiritual for me as it synchronises me with my ancestral egregore.

How do you discipline your children?

An admixture of advice, verbal caution, facial expression, body language and in extreme cases the use of the cane on just one or two occasions to make a very strong and long-lasting impression.

What values did you learn from your father which you passed on to your children?

My father was and still remains a very strict disciplinarian and inculcated in me early enough the value of putting my nose to the grindstone and the futility of worshiping at the shrine of mammon. Above all else, he spared no efforts in making me a God-fearing individual and I am equally striving to imbue my family with these virtues and more.

Fatherhood has brought in its wake varied lessons. One has learnt that you must communicate with each of your children individually bearing in mind their peculiar idiosyncrasies, personalities and emotional build up. You have an onus to discover their respective nuances and adopt an apropos stratagem for each of them. Other lessons are the imperative need to prioritise your expenditure, have a large dose of patience and be more responsible theoretically and in practical terms if you must be taken seriously in your preachments.

Your vocabulary is rich and many often wonder how you have a repertoire of esoteric words. Do you express yourself in turgid terms to your wife and children?

I have said it for the umpteenth time that I have never advertently set out to mystify my audience with what you have referred to as esoteric words and I neither studied Latin. The truth is that extensive reading is my hobbyhorse and these words and phrases become part of my vocabulary repertoire to use your words. Of course, I have equally posited elsewhere that the dictionary for me is a vade mecum. It bears reiteration that my family is already used to my idiolect and I am encouraging my kids along that path but of course you know these things cannot be decreed.

I have endeavoured to encourage my children to try and cultivate the gift of the gab especially my young daughter who is exuding all the qualities of a scholar in her formative years and my pleasure will be boundless if one of them can be so motivated.

Were there things you would have loved to do differently as a father?

If I have another opportunity, I would love to get married much earlier than I did. The irony here is that I thought I was still too young at the time I got married. But now, I wish I had got married much earlier because it’s a humongous joy watching your kids grow.

Were you in labour room with your wife during the birth of your kids?

I was not privileged to be in the labour room on any of such sacred occasions.

What aspect of your career choice is any of your children showing interest?

Law and International Relations.

How much of your time do you give your children?

Truth is that as a very active politician, it is practically difficult to give your family quantity time. This is made up for by sparing no efforts in showering them with real and splendiferous quality time which I relish in doing. But the good news is that we are emotionally, spiritually and psychically attuned to ourselves irrespective of time and space.

What is the hardest part of parenting for you as a father?

The difficult part of fatherhood I presume would be when your children grows up and it becomes time for them to eke out a living out of your roof and move ahead to actualise themselves. This is no doubt a cause for joy but it can equally be emotionally lacerating given the agglutinating bonds forged overtime.

What is your advice to children who have no father figures?

I am a passionate believer in the supremacy of the omnipotence and omnipresence of God. I therefore urge them to totally submit themselves to the Alpha and Omega of the universe while working even harder than those with father figures for God is and remains the ultimate father figure.

What major advice have you given your children about relationships?

They are yet to commence sowing their wild oats.

How best do you think fathers can play meaningful roles in the lives of their children?

The best way is for parents not to be so blinded and inebriated by epicurean and hedonistic pursuits to such an extent that they become complete strangers to their children’s modus vivendi. Also of note is that they must be perfect examples for the kind of life they expect of their kids.

Do you believe in corporal punishment in enforcing discipline on kids?

That must not be the first or regular resort in the enforcement of discipline lest it becomes counter- productive.

What most precious gift did you give you wife for taking care of the home front during your busy schedules?

My love, care, affection and appreciation which cannot and must not be reduced to mercantile specificities.

How do you reward your children’s good deeds?

I give them words of appreciation, buy them gifts, take them out and encourage them to remain good ambassadors of the family.

If you are not a politician, what other career would you have chosen?

It’s debatable if politics in Nigeria should be seen and taken as a career. I am a legal practitioner but I am in love with academics and certainly would have loved to be a lecturer.

Can you recall any embarrassing moment on account of your grammatical turgidity?

My most embarrassing moment was in the US when a Ghanaian who said he has never been to Ghana or Nigeria from birth saw me in a very crowded hotel reception and lay down before me, got up, prostrated again and finally got up. He seized my right hand, placed it on his head and requested me to bless him and transfer all my vocabularies to him.

He wouldn’t let go of my hand on his head until I performed a ‘grammar transferring ritual.’ It was indeed an interesting spectacle and to note that the emotions he exuded came only from regularly watching me on YouTube. This demonstrated the power of the new media and that the world has truly become a global piazza. All these happened in the presence of a current member of the Edo State House of Assembly (Hon. Chris Okaeben and some other Edo sons) to our consternation.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]