I slapped my husband many times during labour — Adeniyi
A schoolteacher, Mrs. Ajoke Adeniyi, shares her first experience as a mother with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

Tell us about your son?

His name is Oluwalanafunmi Gaius Adeniyi. He is now 11 months old. He was born in September 2016.

Why did you christen him Oluwalanafunmi?

When I was about to give birth to him, I went into prolonged labour for 17 hours. I didn’t give birth to him on the expected day of delivery. Because of the prolonged labour, I had to stress myself a bit. The doctor warned that if I continued to push, it may affect the baby’s head. When it appeared that the labour might continue, I was induced. I stayed in the clinic for long hours. The doctor told me that the baby was about to come out having seen his head. I ‘pushed’ and screamed but the baby didn’t come out. I was, thereafter, wheeled to the theatre for a caesarian operation. After the operation was conducted, I was given an injection to sleep. It was after I woke up that I saw my baby. I forgot the pain when I set my eyes on him.

What were your fears when you heard that only a caesarian operation would help you?

Prior to that period, I went to do a pelvic scan which showed that my pelvic was not wide enough. I was told that I may not go through an operation. None of my siblings went through an operation to give birth to their babies. I prayed that my own should not be an exception. My doctor later assured me that I had a 50 percent chance of giving birth naturally and that If I tried, pushed very well, the baby may come out freely without C-section.

Where was your husband when you went into labour?

He was with me at the hospital. He expressed fears when I fell into prolonged labour. He then told me he wanted to go home and pray about it. I refused to let him go. I told him that since we are both responsible for the child, he cannot leave me alone. Both of us were in the labour room for 17 hours and we prayed together. Whenever the pain increased, I would draw closer to where he sat and slap him hard (laughs). He received many slaps in the labour room. Sometimes, I tucked at his shirt and manhandled him. I was doing all these not because I am the aggressive type but to ease off the pain. I got to the hospital on Tuesday around 4pm so the C-section was conducted around 10pm following day. I was in the hospital until Monday morning.

Can you share other funny experiences in the labour room?

When I was being wheeled to the theatre, I felt like excreting. The doctor told me it’s not excreta but that my baby was about to come out. I insisted that it was excreta so they gave me a potty but no faeces came out.

What was your first thought when you found out you were pregnant?

I got married December 12, 2015. I told my husband that I was scared because I don’t want people counting days or months after marriage for our first child to arrive. What is rampant in our society is that once you get married, the counting will start. He encouraged me all along.

Did you enjoy your pregnancy?

I did. There was no morning sickness like other women experience. I did not even throw up. I lived a normal life. My tummy was not that big. It was gone into five or six months before people knew I was pregnant.

What did you do that helped you during pregnancy?

The Internet really helped me. Google was my best friend during pregnancy. When I was two months’ pregnant, I ate pineapples and pawpaw a lot, especially the local variety of pineapples. But I observed that whenever I eat pineapples, I developed running stomach. I had to go to Google to find out why. The searches showed that pineapples may cause miscarriages. Once a pregnant woman is in her first trimester, pawpaw and pineapple may not be a good diet. I stopped eating them. I ate lots of fruits and vegetables, especially oranges. Even if I wanted to take water, I would go to Google to ask. I would type, “Is carrot good for pregnant women?” Whatever I read helped me to balance my diet. I read that carrot may not be a good diet during the first trimester. There are some fruits that are good for the second trimester.

Were you able to lose weight after childbirth?

Yes, I gained some weight but I worked on it after giving birth. I ate a lot of fruits instead of food.

Did your husband assist you with house chores?

My husband is a wonderful man. Even before we got married, he told me he would help me with domestic duties. He really helped me. He cooked, wash plates and engaged in other domestic chores.

What has changed since you gave birth?

My sleeping habit has changed. Before I got married, I could sleep for long hours in a day if I didn’t have any reason to go out. But I had to adjust because of my baby. The baby disturbed my sleep when he was between two and four months old but now he sleeps a lot.

What habits have you noticed in him?

He loves music a lot, maybe because I am a chorister and an instrumentalist. I play clarinet in church. Even when my pregnancy was up to seven months, I continued to play the clarinet during worship. It was our choir leader that told me to stop. Whenever I am working on my laptop, my child would start jumping and clapping his hands. Whenever he hears the sound of music, he claps and dances. I wonder who taught him how to dance and clap. I plan to enroll him for a saxophone class when he is four.

How is your husband coping?

When I got back home after giving birth, he started experiencing sleepless nights. I told him it is the sign of fatherhood and that he has to endure it. Whenever the baby is whimpering at night, it could be annoying. I sleep around 11pm and wake up by 5am. Sometimes, I had to wake up at midnight to breastfeed him.

What would you do differently if you get pregnant again?

I ate lots of Calabar soup during my pregnancy. It made my baby big and probably this made it hard for him to come out during labour. In order to prevent another operation, I may have to reduce that. My joy is that I was able to conceive, the caesarian operation was successful and I remain grateful to God for that.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]