Dealing with a jealous spouse
TOLUWANI ENIOLA writes on the consequences of jealousy among couples

two years after her well-attended wedding, Mrs. Elizabeth Odeyemi, is considering a divorce. Her husband’s resentful suspicion that she is attracted to someone else has turned her once sweet relationship to hell. She is in a dilemma on whether to stay or quit.

Whenever Odeyemi receives a phone call, her husband stays within earshot to know who the caller is. He demands an explanation on the identity of the caller. Her entreaties to dispel his suspicion had failed at different times.

“It has not been easy living with my husband who is extremely jealous. He monitors every of my movement and dealings, even with my female friends. He is always on the move and worried about things that have to do with me.

“People say that it is because of his love for me. The only thing I have been doing is to remain focus and give him reasons not to doubt me because it has not been easy. I don’t take issues with him,” she told SUNDAY PUNCH.

Mrs. Foluke Olaoye’s ordeal is worse than that of Odeyemi. The school teacher told SUNDAY PUNCH that her husband is so jealous that he “has restricted my movement and telephone calls.”

“I believe he does so because of what he does outside. It is his jealous nature that made him stop me from visiting my friends and my friends from visiting me. I should not say I am tired of the relationship but I hope he will stop being jealous someday. I can’t cope in a situation where I am not free to move, associate and even talk.”

Jealousy among couples is a common relationship problem that has torn many homes apart. Many cases of love gone awry can be traced to jealousy. People like Odeyemi, who live with jealous spouses, have become victims of domestic and emotional violence because of their spouses’ attitudes. It is not uncommon to see jealous spouses pour acid on their partners or engage in other devastating acts.

One that remains fresh is the story of Air provost Sholape Oladipupo, who was allegedly shot dead by her boyfriend, B.A. Kalu, owing to jealousy. Oladipupo was recently buried amidst tears at the Air Force Cemetery, Ojo Barracks, Ojo, Lagos State.

Jealousy is not limited to any gender. Like Odeyemi and Olaoye, some married men who shared their experiences with our correspondent expressed displeasure with their wives’ jealous attitudes.

A Lagos-based businessman, Mr. Stephen Oladimeji, described his wife as a “master of jealousy.”

“My wife is too jealous. I don’t know where she got the attitude from. I have been applying wisdom to manage the situation even though it has not been easy tackling it. ”

Victor Benjamin, 40, told SUNDAY PUNCH that her wife is so jealous that she pays him a surprise visit often in his place of work.

Benjamin said, “My wife monitors my movement even in my place of work. After calling me on the phone, she would come and check on me. This is done to know if am with any lady. She is the type that gets annoyed about minor issues. My wife gets emotional easily. What I only do is to ensure I protect my marriage, regardless of what she does. The truth is as a man, it is not easy to deal with it.”

Speaking on the matter, a marriage counsellor, Mrs. Bose Fawehinmi,who described jealousy as a major cause of marital turbulence, and it could be used wrongly to mean love.

Fawehinmi attributed jealousy among couples to low self-esteem and personal insecurity.

She said, “Jealousy is wrongly perceived as a sign of genuine love among couples which is wrong. Being protective of one’s partner is not a sign of love. Married people should understand that. It is common to hear women say their men are jealous because they love them. They should stop deceiving themselves because jealousy is not a healthy way of demonstrating love.”

The relationship expert advised spouses living with jealous partners to develop “coping strategies.”

According to her, such an individual should first take the time to understand why his or her spouse is jealous.

She added, “Jealousy can be traced to low self-esteem. Such couples should help their jealous partners to overcome their insecurity. This is done by assuring him or her that there is no cause for alarm. Help him or her to build self-esteem. If his or her self-esteem is raised, he or she will be less competitive.

“Another way is for the couple not to engage in behaviours that provoke jealousy in their partners. I usually counsel such couples not to hide information from their spouses. When some women want to receive a phone call, they go outside to receive their calls. Why won’t your partner be jealous? Why not stay where you are and speak in your partner’s presence? The more you try to hide things from your spouse because you feel he or she would be jealous, the more you are raising his insecurity level.

“The other thing is to seek professional help because jealousy can drive the person to do crazy things. You don’t have to cope and live with it. You may not be able to cope. A jealous spouse can kill and do other crazy things. Such a spouse should look for help before it is too late.”

Also, a Professor of Psychology at the University of Lagos, Oni Fagbohungbe, urged couples living with jealous spouses to quit the relationship once their attitude becomes irredeemable.

Fagbohungbe maintained that jealousy among couples was a serious problem that should not be taken lightly.

He also said jealousy among couples could be traceable to physiological and sociological reasons.

He said, “Jealousy is an uncontrollable temperament because when it manifests, someone exhibiting the behaviour cannot suppress it until he or she has accomplished the attached requisite behaviour. It’s like a hungry person. Until he eats, the hunger will not subside.

“We have seen cases of jealous men and women killing their partners before realising the dangers. A wife or husband may use avoidance behaviour to curtail the response of their spouse.That means he or she has identified the stimulus that provokes such behaviour. Such behaviour would not manifest unless it is provoked. Once stimuli are identified, you can prepare a response that will calm the attitude.”

Fagbohungbe, however, added that engaging in “avoidance behaviour” would not guarantee a change in attitude of the jealous partner.

When such jealousy has aggravated to the extreme, the expert advised the partner at the receiving end to seek the help of a clinical psychologist or a marriage counsellor.

He added, “When you realise that the situation is irredeemable, what to do is to separate from such a relationship because life has no duplicate. It is a very powerful force. If you investigate such people, you would discover that their adrenal gland is overactive. You find them exhibiting criminal behaviour.”

Famous quote

He that is jealous is not in love – Algerian philosopher, Saint Augustine

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]