I wept openly as labour pains became unbearable for my wife — Umahi
A former General Officer Commanding, GOC, 81 Division of the Nigerian Army, Maj.-Gen. Obi Umahi (retd.), tells ARUKAINO UMUKORO about his fatherhood experience

what does fatherhood mean to you?

One who is a father is also a husband. Being a father involves a lot of things. It means that the father owes his family so much, spiritually, materially, emotionally, and physically. Fatherhood covers all these areas.

As a father of four, what experience has fatherhood taught you?

Experiences come in many shapes and sizes. For example, raising up children as prescribed by the Almighty God in the scriptures. Sometimes, children tend to rebel against the Word of God or discipline because it is easier to live without discipline. It is a constant lesson one drives home by talking to one’s children regularly to show them the right way to go to secure their future. Sometimes, children may think one’s way of doing things is not fashionable.

As a soldier, do you apologise to your children when you are wrong?

Yes I do. One’s role in one’s professional calling is different from one’s role in the home as a father, although they can reinforce each other. You’ll find out that a military man is a little bit soft in the home, because the same military that taught to be tough, also taught to be soft to one’s wife. One is taught to defer to one’s wife, because if you have problems in your home, it is likely to affect your career.

When you are at home, the position and approach to issues are completely different. If you follow the military approach at home, you will bungle everything. One is trying to bring up one’s children in an acceptable way. If one can’t apologise to one’s children when one is wrong, it means you are teaching them not to say sorry when they are wrong. The worst way to bring up children is to do it pretentiously. But kids see beyond what you say, they act what you do. If you say sorry as a parent, it must also show in the way you relate to them.

How do you discipline your children?

I can be hard sometimes. One of the problems with African type of parenting is that parents don’t do exactly what they say they would to do if their children go wrong. This attitude is what is affecting our society today; people can get away with anything. The laws are there, but they are never implemented. It is the same thing in the home. The negative reinforcement should go side by side with positive reinforcement. If a parent says he is going to spank a child if that child does something wrong, that parent should do exactly what he said. If you, as a parent, tell the child he is going to lose some privileges like not watching television or visiting friends if that child does something wrong, then stick to it. Although, sometimes it is difficult to discipline one’s children because the soft part would show up but the child should be able to know that if you say you would discipline him or her, you would do so. That is what works in the army.

The hallmark of soldiering is to imbibe strict discipline and to fear and tremble in the face of the law. That is what soldiering is all about. If one finds that there are gaps in the attitude in the military today, it is because the emphasis on values, ethos and ethics of the military is being eroded. Otherwise, a typical soldier will not break the law like a civilian would do, because the implications of violating that law is not fully known to the civilian as it is to the typical solider. In the military, we are ruled by a regime of laws.

Do you spank your children when they go wrong?

Yes, I do. It is good that the home is regimented to a level, but one should not drive it to that military end. But any home without a regime of discipline, where there is no measure of regimentation and the rules and behaviour are lax, then things would not work well. The measure of discipline one brings to bear in the family is the one that would help shape the children to become good citizens and succeed in life. Also it helps to know that there are repercussions for wrong doing; whether in the immediate or in the future.

How do you balance the military timing with managing your home?

If, for instance, I have a social outing or an important appointment and my family is involved, and I am supposed to be there by 10am, the best thing to do is to tell them the appointment is by 9am. Everyone would target getting ready by 8am or 8.30am. If they encroach towards 9am, one knows that there is still time, even though I still have to remind them that we were going to be late. In the military, it is called, RSM (Regimental Sergeant Major) timing.

Where were you when your first child was born?

I had the privilege of being at the hospital where my first child was born, but I was not around when the other three were born. I was far away on military assignments then.

How old is your first son?

He is 22 years old.

How was the experience of witnessing his birth?

It was emotional because I could hear my wife screaming in pains, and when the child came and gave his first cry, it was a wonderful experience. It was painful for me when I heard my wife screaming and I cried openly because I couldn’t bear it. If I had been there in the same room looking at her, maybe it would have been a little better for me. Then, I was thinking something terrible was happening to her for her to be screaming like that. In fact, if I was asked to be present for the birth of my other children, I would have said no. I was a young captain in the army then.

What role has your wife played in making you a better father and soldier?

I usually call my wife the Joseph of my life. The biblical Joseph added value anywhere he was. In his father’s house, he added value and that provoked his father’s love for him and he sewed for Joseph a coat of many colours. When Joseph was sold into slavery by his brothers and he went to Potiphar’s house, the Bible recorded that everything about Potiphar’s business and his household grew and was blessed because of Joseph. It was the same thing when he was sent to prison and then became prime minister. He became a blessing to the entire nation. That is exactly what my wife is to me. She is everything one would want to have in a woman. She is a child of God. She is prayerful. Let me tell you a secret that every man and fathers should know: no matter what you do for your children (as a father); if you don’t love your wife, your children would never love you. If you want your children to love you, love their mother, because when you love their mother, it has a way of reflecting back on them and it shows the children that you, indeed, respect their spring of living water.

How have you been catering to your family despite the demands of your career?

It’s a little bit challenging. When I first got married, I was initially moving with my family. But, at a point, it became difficult. The frequent dislocation of the children was affecting them negatively, so I decided to settle them in one place for continuity in their education and so on. It also meant that being present as a father to affect the children the way I should was problematic. During the holidays, no matter how short it was, they visited me, and each time I was on leave or I take permission to travel, I was with them.

It is not the same thing as being permanently with one’s children. There are many fathers that hardly know their children, not because they are far away from them, but because they leave home early in the morning and come back late. I think I did better than such parents. Each time, I was around, I was fully with them. But honestly speaking, it could have been different if I had the opportunity to stay with them continuously the way I would have loved to.

You would have gone for several military missions. Can share the experience you had in one of them?

I was in Liberia with the ECOMOG troops in late ‘89 to ‘90. I went back again in 91/92. It was the height of hostilities in Liberia. I was shot in my first tour. It is always a challenging situation. Anytime one is faced with such danger, what comes to one’s mind is, “If something should happen, who would take over my responsibilities, who would care for my wife and my children?” That is why it is good to have God if one is a soldier. I am being particular because the job of soldering is very risky and fraught with a lot of danger. Everyone needs God but I think a soldier’s thirst for God should be double than that of any other person.

On the day I was shot in Liberia, in a place called Double Bridge, near Monrovia, some thoughts flashed through my mind: “If I die, what would happen to my wife, does it mean I would not be able to raise a family (my first son had not been born by then).” Then, I thought of my mother and my siblings. But God was my succour and I knew that it would be well. When I was brought to the hospital after the incident, the first doctor that saw me started crying and I felt my case was hopeless and I wondered what message I would pass to my wife and family.

When did she know that you were shot in the war?

She knew only at the time I was already getting better. When I was going for the second tour, she prayerfully believed that everything would be okay.

Did you change the diapers of any of your children as babies?

Yes I did. I was always doing that. I love children so much. Sometimes, I also prepare a surprise dish for my children and they all always look forward to it. I have done it a number of times, but it’s not been too often, because my wife wouldn’t let me do that most of the time.

What is your advice to men generally?

There are decisions in a home that are critical and there are others that are routine. Every man should be able to distinguish between these two. Decisions like what colour of chairs or blind to buy, colour of paint for the house, are routine decisions; let your wife have her way in these. Ask her what she wants, you can make suggestions, but she could overrule you, but allow her decision to stand. But there are some decisions that are critical, for instance, the kind of family/children your child can relate with.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]