Helping a depressed spouse
TOLUWANI ENIOLA writes on how couples can help their partners who are battling depression

It all started with his inability to sleep. Then he started to lose weight. For many nights, Mrs. Omoyeni Olagundoye stayed awake puzzled about what could have gone wrong with her husband. He used to be energetic, played with the children and led a happy life.

The mother of two narrated how her husband gradually became disenchanted with activities he enjoyed taking part in. She had no clue her husband was suffering from depression until it was almost too late.

Sharing her experience with SUNDAY PUNCH, Olagundoye said she didn’t immediately understand the root of his problem.

She added, “It took time to understand that the depression was caused by lack of money. Depression is a very difficult thing to understand because the person suffering from it may not know he is depressed. For my husband, many things caused his sudden change in lifestyle. Because he recently retired, the delay in payment of his gratuity compounded his problem. He hardly slept at night not to talk of in the day. He stopped eating as he used to, which resulted in weight loss. Eventually, he was able to overcome the disorder after seeking medical help.”

Experts have defined depression as a mood disorder connected with a pervasive feeling of sadness. Some of its symptoms include persistent feeling of sadness, lack of motivation, loss of interest in previously pleasurable activities and lack of energy. It is a major mental health issue confronting many people.

For Mrs. Bimbo Williams, the word depression never came to her mind when her husband started manifesting unusual behaviour some years back. The Lagos-based housewife told our correspondent that her husband was hit by a commercial motorcycle, popularly called okada, while walking on the street.

“My husband lost his ego and I never fully understood it was depression. He was working at a firm where salaries were not paid promptly. As a result of this, he found it difficult to fulfill his responsibilities as a father and husband.

“The condition caused a lot of damage to him and his family. It took medical intervention and prayers before he recovered,” she said.

Sharing how he helped his wife to overcome the disorder, Mr. Muyiwa Ogunbi, told SUNDAY PUNCH that his wife became depressed after many years of childlessness.

“There was nothing I didn’t do to encourage her that life was more than giving birth to a child. Depression was a difficult thing to manage in my wife because it took complete control of her.

“The condition started taking its toll on her job; she suddenly became inefficient in her work. She was only able to pull through the challenge after months of counselling,” Ogunbi stated.

A consultant psychiatrist, Dr. Adeoye Oyewole, traced depression among couples to marital conflict and disharmony.

Oyewole explained that supremacy battle among couples could also damage their ego, leading to depression.

The expert on mental health also advised couples not to “spiritualise” depression, arguing that it is a purely a medical issue that should be handled by experts.

He further advised individuals with depressed partners to ask themselves the question: “What are the things I have been doing that my partner does not like? A change in attitude would help to change the situation. Such couples should engage in some supportive psychotherapy at home first. If the symptoms of depression persist, it is good to seek medical advice or help of a professional counsellor,” he noted.

Oyewole said couples with depressed partners seek help in church, adding that such was good but some of these cases require clinical expertise to manage. He stated, “Before you realise the gravity of depression, your wife or husband may have taken his or her life. The wife of a pastor friend of mine suffered from depression. They prayed one night and went to sleep but the woman took her life before dawn. We are not disparaging the role of religion. Religion can be supportive but there is a need for medical intervention and assessment before it is too late.”

A businessman, Kunle Oluseye is ready to seek medical help for his depressed wife but she is unwilling.

Oluseye told SUNDAY PUNCH that his wife’s mood changed after her mother’s death.

He said, “She was close to her mother. She loved her so much. Upon hearing the news of her mother’s death, she became another human being entirely to the extent that she does not always have the time to take care of our children. The home is no longer a happy one as it used to be.”

According to a psychiatrist, Dr. Ayo Ajayi, who has helped many couples to overcome the disorder, it is a major cause of suicide.

He told SUNDAY PUNCH that many victims of depression could also be misdiagnosed as malaria fever because of the victims’ lack of energy and weakness.

Ajayi said depression usually aggravated to a devastating level because of poor awareness on the part of couples.

The psychiatrist explained that depression often moves from a feeling of worthlessness, helplessness to hopelessness.

According to him, when such couples get to the level of hopelessness, they either commit homicide or suicide.

He said, “The best way a spouse can help his or her partner is to get enough information about depression. Knowledge is important. When people are depressed, they start having feelings of loss of energy. They experience prolonged sadness. Most times, they withdraw from activities they used to enjoy. It’s like a boomerang effect. The more they are depressed, the more they do things that make them depressed.

“Some find it difficult to get out of bed in the morning. They lose interest in their spouses and have low libido. Some would be eating too much while some won’t have the appetite to eat at all. Some may not be able to sleep while some would sleep too much.

“It could go along with negative thoughts which we call automatic thoughts. They are distracted and can’t concentrate. Sometimes they nurture thoughts of guilt even for things they didn’t do. Most depressed victims don’t want to go to work, even when the job pays well. Sometimes, they feel their spouses would be better off without them. They feel they are putting lots of burden on their spouses.”

Ajayi urged couples who notice these traits in their spouses to quickly see a psychiatrist and a psychologist for help.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]