I climbed a 720-step mountain in my third trimester — Adekanmbi
An entrepreneur, Mrs. Omonike Adekanmbi, talks about her motherhood experience with GBENGA ADENIJI

Let me first congratulate you on the arrival of your baby. Please introduce yourself and tell us how your baby is doing.

I am an entrepreneur based in Ibadan, Oyo State. To the glory of God, our baby is doing fine. As it is normal with every newborn, our baby’s body clock is just trying to change and you know what that means. We do vigil because he sleeps in the day and he is awake for the better part of the night.

When did you give birth?

I was delivered of my baby on July 18, 2017. Our baby was christened Daniel Oluwakorede Adekanmbi.

Was it a natural or assisted birth?

I give God the glory that it was normal delivery. It was not through caesarian section.

How did you handle each trimester?

Getting pregnant is always an interesting and dreadful experience mixed together. As for me, the first trimester was the most troubling period. I could hardly go out. I had to give excuses for inability to attend social functions held by friends and relations during the period. There was a self-imposed restriction of movement kind of. To even go to school to pick my first son was a Herculean task for me. This was because I spat for about five weeks and my mouth got sour at the early stage. I chewed gum a lot while pregnant. I also took peppery food and would sometimes pour ground pepper in my food.

During the second trimester, the restriction gave way and my freedom restored. It was an interesting period. I began to feel the movement of the foetus and that experience alone made me happy. I ate much more during this period, but I controlled what I ate because it was at this stage that the growth of the foetus would get rapid.

At the last trimester, I felt the weight of the baby and my walking steps or strides changed considerably. The tendency to get tired during this stage because of the weight of the baby was high. At this stage, I began to do light work out. I thank God that throughout all my trimesters my joule of energy doubled. I did house chores and any other duty with greater strength. But I would sleep like a log of wood after a laborious day. In the course of the last trimester, I frequented prayer mountains because the God factor is the most important for me and my husband. One of such mountains is in Ekiti with 720 steps. I climbed it after three stops and with encouragement from my husband who went with me to all the mountains. On July 17, I climbed that mountain — Ido Ile CAC Prayer Mountain in Ekiti and fell into active labour on getting to Ibadan the same day. I gave birth the following day at about 8am.

What has changed about you since you gave birth?

My tummy is coming back to shape, just as my feet and face. I walk smartly now.

How is the older baby reacting to the arrival of the newborn?

The older child is also a boy and so he is very happy and doting on his brother. He points at the newborn from time to time and says “Mummy, see my buoda.” When the baby is crying, he says: “My buoda, sorry.” And he will pack all his toys to give to the newborn. I will tell him his ‘bouda’ is too small to play with the toys now, that he will make use of them as he grows up.

Did you experience mood swings prior to delivery?

Yes, I did experience change in mood but only occasionally. But the swings occurred in the last trimester.

What things were you told before pregnancy and delivery which turned out false?

My husband’s doctor friend told us when I had false labour that true or active labour would come with back pain. I also read that up on Google. But the back pain did not come until about five minutes to delivery.

What fears did you nurse about labour?

I already knew my baby would be big. So, I nursed the fear that I was going to have some tear and the attendant stitching I would go through made my heart skip. My fear was confirmed after I gave birth. But it is all history now.

Do you intend to practise exclusive breastfeeding?

I have always known that exclusive breastfeeding is the way to go for nursing mothers. However, there is a factor that may make this a bit difficult. My first child was 3.2 kg at birth. I did not lactate quickly and so we fed him baby formula for a while and stopped after I began to lactate. But for my new baby, I lactated immediately. To my surprise, the matron of the hospital came up with what I will call a mercantile argument that the baby is big — 4.2kg-and so breast milk alone would not satisfy him. After initial resistance, I agreed. But thank God the baby himself rejected the formula. He does not take formula, but only breast milk. To make him suck his fill, I always feed well and take liquids that will keep the breast milk flowing at all times.

Did your mother prepare you for labour?

Since this is not my first child, I mainly prepared myself for labour. With my husband, we googled and read a lot because the experience of the second birth was totally different from the first. I had false labour. But I didn’t have such during the first childbirth. I consulted my mother though and what she said was in tandem with what we had read up on the Internet.

What was your labour experience like?

It was as though the world would crash on me. Perhaps because of the false labour which I experienced for the first time, the pain was longer and became almost unbearable at some point. All through the labour period, I was chanting “Jesus, save me.” When I got to the hospitable, cervix had opened up to 10cm. I have a very high pain threshold. The doctor and nurses on duty, having probably read my facial expression, thought it would take a long time for the baby to come. But upon examination, they had to wheel me into the delivery room.

Are there some habits you have noticed in your baby?

He does not like anything dirty. When he defecates and I don’t quickly change his diaper, he will cry until the diaper is changed and he is cleaned up. Secondly, he responds positively to sounds and good music. When he cries and you sing, he keeps quiet and listens and looks in the direction of the sound.

What has motherhood taught you?

Motherhood has taught me patience, perseverance and never to move an inch away from God. It has also made me more responsible. I no longer have more time for myself. I wake up as early as 5am to bath my first child and then the baby, while preparing breakfast. Although I have cousins who now help my with some of the chores, there is a limit to what they can do. For instance, I don’t allow any of them cook for my husband. My children and husband dictate my time.

How has your husband been helping with caring for the baby and handling house chores?

He has been very supportive as usual. He is an organist and so he sings for the baby when he cries. He does not know how to change the baby’s diaper yet. But he does the shopping now and calls from the shopping mall if he forgets anything he needs to add.

Would you wish you did something differently now that you are a mother again?

None that I can recollect for now, but surely, I have no regrets.

Who gets more attention now, your baby or your husband?

I spend time with caring for my husband, first child and the baby. But certainly, the baby gets more attention than any other person.

How many children do you hope to have?

Maybe one more and then we “hang the boot” as they say.

What did you do more during pregnancy?

I attended prayer meetings, picked my first child from school and went to prayer mountains.

Did you do any scan to know the gender of the baby prior to delivery?

I did three scans per trimester and all showed I would have a baby boy. Surprisingly, one of the scans gave the Expected Delivery Date as July 18, which happened to be the day I was delivered of the baby.

What food did you crave for most while pregnant?

Naturally, I don’t like eating beans. But while pregnant, my best meal was bread and beans. I also fell in love with peppery food.

Did you hate anything about your looks while you were pregnant?

I hated my swollen face and legs. I had to buy new slippers. I am naturally fair-skinned, but I was dark while pregnant.

What is your advice to pregnant women about labour?

I advise them not to nurse any fear and prepare themselves. Doctors are psychologists in a way. When they see fear-filled pregnant woman, they will recommend CS. I believe there are many women who were sectioned because of fear, but who could have given birth naturally. All pregnant women should dispel any negative notion they might have been told by people about labour. They should focus on God who is the ultimate doctor.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]