I’m an Anglican, I believe in heaven but not hell — Akintan, 90, classmate of Fawehinmi, Clark
Ninety-year-old lawyer, Chief Agboola Akintan, shares the story of his life and career with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

Briefly introduce yourself.

I am the Ojomo of Idanre and the Lisa of Kosofe in Lagos. I clocked 90 on June 6, 2017. My father was Chief Joseph Akintan and my mother was Janet Ola Akintan. My parents, like many other Idanre indigenes, lived on top of the hill. I am the fourth or fifth child of my father. My father had four wives. I am one of three children from my mother.

Where were you born?

I was born on the top of the Idanre hills in Ondo State. At the age of five, my uncle, Gilbert Akintola, took me out of Idanre. We climbed down the hill and trekked 10 miles to Owena to connect the motor road from Ondo to Akure. For the first time, I saw a motor lorry. Idanre was not accessible to motor vehicles then.

What was it like growing up?

We were living on the hill and cultivated crops many miles away at Oniserere. Oniserere was about 40 miles from the top of the hills. It is a village under Idanre. I started school in 1930 in Oniserere. People started coming down from the hills to settle on plain lands in January 1933. During this period, I saw about 15 houses in Idanre. It may be more than that. Then, my family was still up the hill. It would take you about 30 minutes to climb the hills. The only school up the hill was infested with yaws. My uncle decided to take me to Alade, another four miles from Idanre. I continued schooling there in 1934. I was short in stature but I was lucky to gain admission to the school. When I got to Alade, new pupils were asked to move their hands across their heads until the tip of their palms could touch their ears. Fortunately, I didn’t experience this.

The headmaster at Alade was well trained and didn’t tell me to take the exercise. I was able to read the English alphabets before I came to Alade. I was extremely lucky to go to school. Pupils up the hills were infested with yaws. Yaws is like leprosy but not actually leprosy. It would leave a scar on your skin. But once you contract it, it would be hard for you to have leprosy. Lepers were hard to find in Idanre at the time. But those infected with yaws were common in Ondo division then. Because of that, I was moved to Alade to avoid the disease because it was waterborne. It was cured with penicillin and I was lucky to be the man in charge of its eradication in 1956 in Idanre. I had graduated and taken up an appointment as the chief executive of the district council at the time.

How was life during the colonial era?

I only knew of the top of the hills in my early days. The people were highly primitive. We knew little or nothing about civilisation. All we knew in Idanre was the traditional religion and celebrating festivals. Everybody on top of the hill was involved in one form of traditional ceremony. It was either death, birth or marriage ceremonies. No one could farm on the hill but the population was huge. I was not privileged to meet a white man until I was over five years. The first time I saw a white man was at Osogbo, Osun State. It was all rocks everywhere. Idanre people settled on the hills because of the fear of attacks by neighbours around. Before the colonial era, there was inter-tribal warfare in Yorubaland.

Tell us more about your education.

I travelled to Owo, Ondo State, in 1941 to continue my studies at St. Patrick School, under the headmastership of D.O Fagunwa, the late author of the famous Yoruba novel, Ogboju Ode Ninu Igbo Irunmole.

I crammed Fagunwa’s Ogboju Ode and won a prize for being able to recite some portions of the book. Fagunwa was between 30 and 40 years old then.

He was fond of me. He was from Oke-Igbo, Ondo State. Incidentally, the father of the present Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, was my classmate. He was a man of God, an archdeacon of the Anglican Church. We were good friends. He was the tallest boy in the class and I was the shortest. We were close friends. I studied local government administration at the University College, Ibadan, Oyo State, before I travelled to the United Kingdom. I attended Holborn College, London to study law.

Were there Nigerians among your classmates in the UK?

The late Gani Fawehinmi and Chief Edwin Clark were my classmates in London. I was 11 years older than Fawehinmi. Clark was a gentleman like me. We were very quiet in the class, unlike Fawehinmi who was very smart. Fawehinmi was a fire heater. In class, he would ask many questions whenever he was in class. He was not regular in school but he passed his examinations. He was very critical in mind. I knew from then that he would be a brilliant lawyer. He would ask questions, particularly on criminal and constitutional law. He would not allow any other person to ask questions. We would raise our fingers but he would insist his questions should be answered. Clark was a sober person like me, reserved in school but critical in mind. We were not too intimate but we knew each other and talked in the dining room. We were called to bar two days after the military took over in 1966.

How did you meet your wife?

I came to Lagos on January 4, 1948. There was an Idanre man in Lagos, Claudius Akintan. My wife was his younger sister. She was schooling at Obalende, Lagos. I least expected I would marry my wife. We were living like brother and sister. She was taller. If I had a girlfriend, she knew about it. When a new house was completed at Ebutte Meta, I rented a room there. My wife’s uncle lived on the second floor and my wife was with him there. We were there for two years. Later, I travelled down to Idanre where my wife was a midwife in training in 1954. She was handling the maternity home. The intimacy got renewed. One day, when we were going to Benin City, she went with me and we bought fish and gave to her father who was in a village called Owena Akintan. We got there around 12.30am. Then my wife’s father said to us, “You have been together for the past 10 or 15 years. What stopped you from marrying each other?” I looked at my wife. She got up and started arranging the table as if she didn’t hear. In another 30 minutes, we were back in the car. Then I asked her, “Did you hear what your father said?” She said, “Yes. I would not mind marrying you.” I continued driving without answering her again. When we got to her house, I said I would not leave that night. She laughed. She said, “Do you want the wedding to start this night?” I said, “I don’t mind.” We laughed. We got married three months after. She died November 11, 2015. She was 83. We were married for 58 years.

What do you miss about her?

I miss her so much. Two weeks before she died, she attended a morning service and came to me where I was lying down. I have not been able to use my legs well. I used to lie on a couch. She sat down and carried my two legs and put them on her legs. I felt moved. I told her when I die, she knew what to do with the children. I told her not to mourn my death for three months as is the custom in Idanre. If they would mourn me, it should not be more than seven days. She shook my legs and said, “Don’t talk about death now.”

Can you share your memorable experiences?

It was my experience during the Second World War in 1938. In Idanre, a religious group started to cry around that the war was Armageddon. People were describing the late dictator, Adolf Hitler, as the man who would destroy the whole world. I remember there were 21 pupils in my class. Parents started withdrawing their children from school because ‘the end of the world was near.’ My uncle insisted I remain in school. There was hardship. There was petrol scarcity and it affected transportation. I had to trek from Idanre to Akure by foot to go to school. Things were really difficult.

Another memorable encounter I had was during the late sage, Obafemi Awolowo’s burial. When I left the university and started working, I abstained from politics. I was 60 years old in 1987 when Awolowo died. I was in my living room in Ketu, Lagos. The rain was pouring. I switched on my television. They were bringing Awolowo’s corpse to the stadium. They focused the camera on a mammoth crowd waiting for Awolowo’s corpse. The rain did not prevent people from seeing his corpse.

The people started singing, “All we are saying, give us Awo.” I told myself that it was not sufficient for one to educate his children, have a good life, save money and become comfortable. One must make an impact in one’s community. I told myself that I would join politics, not to contest positions but be a kingmaker. The following week, I attended my ward meeting in the Social Democratic Party. Awolowo’s burial touched me.

What bothers you most about the state of the nation about at 90?

If only we can get Nigerians to value this country and its potential and our ability to lead the black race, we could make lots of impacts. I am currently reading “From Third World to First: The Singapore Story, 1965-2000” written by Lee Kuan Yew. Nigeria has no excuse to fail. We don’t need to fight. We are all blessed. No state is poor. We can evenly distribute our wealth. There is enough to go round.

What’s your view about life after death?

I can’t claim to know heaven until I get there. I don’t bother myself about going to heaven at all. To me, there is no hell. There can’t be hell. I know I don’t do evil. When I get to heaven, I will know how it is but now, I am here. I focus my attention on this earth. Yes, I am a Christian, an Anglican yet I don’t allow the debate about heaven or hell to bother me. I would do everything while alive to help a lot of people. I want to live a good life. When I die, I told my children not to cry because I have had a good bite of life. I have done more good than evil. When I get to the gate of heaven, I will hold my resume. The ultimate and the supreme judge will look at it. He will deduct my mistakes from my good deeds. I am confident that he will allow me to enter (heaven).

I don’t let God do for me what I can do for myself. My prayer is usually short. I pray this way, “Oh God, help me to help those who will help me.” If you say you love God, and you don’t love your neighbour, you are a liar. Love is important.

What are the secrets of your good health?

I have been diabetic for 40 years. Diabetes has helped me a lot. Before the diagnosis, I thought the world was worth enjoying. I was doing everything I could lay my hands on. I played as much as possible. When I was told I was diabetic, I had to regulate my life and eat well. I thank God, not for having diabetes but for knowing how to manage it. It was after the diagnosis that I realised that life had to be nursed and nurtured. One has to be moderate. The most important is to be clean in body and mind. I don’t go to my bed with bad thinking. When I want to rest, I allow my trouble to stay aside and sleep. I wake to meet my troubles. I eat the food good for my body and seek advice. How to live well at 90 depends on nature and of course what you do to yourself. I couldn’t use one of my ears well. I went to the US for two months. I spent much money to treat it. Two weeks after, the pain in the right ear started. I lost hope. I went to India again. Yet, I still can’t hear clearly.

What more do you wish for at your age?

I don’t pray to live a day more. Why should I ask God to give me more days when there are young people who need more years? God, don’t give me more days. My prayer is this, lord, let thy servant depart in peace. Let me go in peace. I thank God for this interview. If I still see tomorrow, I will thank God. I can only thank God for the day I see.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]