We don’t have pet names for each other — Bez’s wife
Musician, Bezhiwa Emmanuel Idakula, aka Bez, and his wife, a radio presenter, Bolatito speak with TOFARATI IGE about their experiences in matrimony

Can you recall how you met your spouse?

Bez: We have mutual friends and we became closer along the line.

Bolatito: We have mutual friends and we used to all just hang out together then. Apparently, we had met before many years back in school though I had forgotten, but he remembered.

How did your romance evolve from friendship?

Bez: It took a while because I was focused on my career and it took most of my mind. But I also realised that we talked a lot and she became my confidante. When you spend a lot of time with someone, feelings start to develop but I don’t even know the exact time that happened. We became drawn to each other emotionally.

Bolatito: Over time, we got to realise that we have a lot of things in common and we became really close. It was a natural progression; being attracted to each other physically, spiritually and on many other levels.

How did you make the transition from being just friends to dating and eventually getting married?

Bez: It was quite easy for me. I was ready for marriage at that time so I was basically prepared. It has just been like living with a friend.

Bolatito: The more time you spend time with someone, the better you understand them. As we went on, we became more interested in each other’s lives and romantic feelings were kindled along the way.

What were the qualities you noticed in your spouse that made you willing to take the plunge?

Bez: I’m on the quiet side but she has such incredible energy; she is always smiling or laughing. She is easy to relate with and I found that she’s very intelligent, smart, caring and giving. Those were the qualities I saw that endeared me to her.

Bolatito: He is a calm and controlled person while I’m more outgoing, and that was an attraction for me. The fact that we could spend very long time together talking without being bored was another factor for me. Other qualities are his spiritual life, sense of humour, ambition; I valued everything about him.

Weren’t you wary of getting married to a musician?

Bolatito: Being a musician is just a part of who he is as a person so that didn’t bother me. I know that people have different characters and even I don’t believe in stereotypes.

How involved are you with his music?

Bolatito: I have to listen to it because that’s what he does. He is an amazing musician and I enjoy his songs, so I don’t need any incentive for that. I like watching his live performances on stage, and to me, he is at the top. He is a brilliant performer and I can watch him over and again. I’m probably his biggest fan because he is very good at what he does.

How did you propose to her?

Bez: On a particular day, I took her to a friend’s house, which was the first place where I met her. She just thought we were going to see a friend, not knowing that he had travelled and we would be the only ones in the house. I had earlier gotten a chef to prepare a five course table and I cleared the living room, so it was just the table in the middle of it. My friend had helped me to decorate the place with candles. When we got there, I proposed to her in the kitchen, then I took her into the living room for dinner for two.

What was your experience transitioning from a spinster to a married woman?

Bolatito: The first thing I had to throw out of the window was my pride. I had to understand that it’s not every fight that you would win. I had to become less selfish because there are times when one would need to consider one’s spouse in every decision. If there is a change in my plans, I have to call my husband, unlike when I was a spinster that I could change my plans at anytime, without having to tell anyone. I also began to pray more than when I was single.

How would you describe your marital experience so far?

Bez: It has been very interesting. She is my best friend and I’m very comfortable with her. By the time she started living with me, it felt like we had been cohabiting before. Though there are times when you may quarrel but that’s just normal. I don’t think I’d rather be with any other person than her.

Bolatito: I have really enjoyed it. There hasn’t really been much change from when we were dating till now; only that we live together. We’re still best friends and prayer partners. I very much enjoy being with my husband to being alone.

How has fatherhood impacted on you?

Bez: It has shown me that I’m really a leader. Children don’t really listen to what you say, they rather watch what you do. That has made me to be more conscious about the things I do. Even in the things that I do in my business that may affect my son in years to come. It has had a very wonderful impact in my life.

How do you settle misunderstandings?

Bez: We have agreed between ourselves that we would always express our grievances. For us, communication is the key. Once we talk about it; we would definitely get over it.

Bolatito: We do that in many different ways. I have learnt to always express my feelings at all times and we know each other strengths and weaknesses. Sometimes, it may involve shouting at each other, but we eventually talk it out till we each understand ourselves. When it comes to making apologies, it is mutual. We are both quick to apologise to one another.

How do you cope with his fans and admirers?

Bez: I know she has male friends and once we got married, her friends became my friends. I haven’t had any problem with her in terms of male admirers. If anybody is coming to see her, they are coming to see me too. As for female fans, I try to make sure that they don’t know where my house is and that I don’t get too close. For example, if anybody wants my phone number, I rather give them my manager’s number.

Bolatito: I knew who he was before I married him. My husband has the fear of God in him. I also submit everything about my marriage to God. And if I don’t feel comfortable about certain people, I always let him know. My focus is on God and my husband, so I don’t pay too much attention to female fans and other women.

Do you operate a joint account?

Bolatito: We do have a joint account but we also have our individual accounts.

What are your pet names for each other?

Bolatito: I call him his name, Bez. Once in a while, I say ‘bae’ but it’s usually Bez, and he calls me by my name, Tito.

Does Bez help with household chores?

Bez: Yes, I do. Right from when I was young, my mum always made sure that I partake in household chores such as cleaning and sweeping. I also lived by myself for some years and I was the one taking care of myself. I don’t believe that chores in the house should only be reserved for the woman.

Bolatito: Yes, he does. He cooks as well and he is a very wonderful husband and father. It is our home and we take care of it together.

How do you unwind as a couple?

Bez: We go out together, hang out with friends, watch movies and travel.

Bolatito: We visit cinemas, hang out with friends and also have friends over at our house.

What advice can you give to young and intending couples?

Bez: Don’t get into marriage with any kind of agenda or one-sided expectations. Don’t get married just because the person is beautiful, famous or any of those mundane things. Always know that there are three people in a marriage: you, your spouse and God. Always involve God in your affairs so as to have a successful marriage.

Bolatito: Be humble! You have to decide which fight is worth it for you and who’s more important to you. You have to let go of things when necessary. In my experience, nothing works better than putting your marriage in God’s hands. You also shouldn’t be selfish; whatever concerns one, invariably concerns the other.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]