I hated my big nose during pregnancy — George
A Rivers State-based gospel singer, Mrs. Joy George, talks about her labour experience with GBENGA ADENIJI

what is your baby’s name?

My baby’s name is Dandavid George. I am a gospel artiste. I have been on stage for over 10 years. People know me as Afrikan J.

When was the baby born?

He was born on May 27. That was on Children’s Day.

What did he weight at birth?

My baby weighed 3.7kg when I gave birth to him.

Is he your first child?

He is my fourth child. He has older siblings. The first two are girls and then a boy. Let me also say that he is my last child. I have put a stop to childbearing.

What was the different thing you noticed in your recent delivery compared to others?

The delivery was the easiest one for me. However, I did more scans in his case. Also, when I heard of painless delivery, I was advised to do it and I paid for it. Painless delivery is a technique of epidural analgesia or epidural anaesthesia meant to help one to escape unbearable labour pain when one is about to be delivered of one’s baby.

What particular behaviour have you noticed in him?

One thing I have noticed in him is that he doesn’t sleep well in the day.

Did you do a scan to know the baby’s gender while pregnant and how did you feel knowing the gender?

Yes I did. In fact, I did about three scans. The first was when I was three months into the pregnancy. I also did at the sixth and the ninth months. All the results showed that he is baby boy and I was glad.

Tell us about your labour experience.

Labour was not difficult this time because it was my last delivery. I paid for painless delivery as I said earlier.

Have you returned to your original shape?

My original shape? Oh no, I have yet gained back my former shape. I am still bigger than I used to be. I am working hard to return to shape.

What food did you crave for while pregnant?

I drank garri a lot with roasted chicken. I took that almost every day while I was pregnant.

What did you hate most about your looks when you were pregnant?

It was my nose. It became very big.

What things would you have loved to do differently when you were pregnant?

There was nothing I really would have loved to do differently while I was pregnant. But looking back now, I think one thing I missed doing was to sleep flat on my tummy. But there was no way to do that.

What has changed about your daily schedule now that you have a new child?

I can tell you that everything has changed about my schedule. The things that have changed most are my praying and bathing time.

How are his older siblings reacting and relating with him?

His older siblings are happy to see a new addition to our family. They are getting on well with him. And as you would know, they love him.

What lessons has motherhood taught you?

I have learnt lots of things from motherhood. It has taught me to be patient and tolerant. My hubby is the best husband and father around. He helps me a lot in taking care of the baby especially at night whenever I need to sleep. He has been a loving, caring and helpful husband. He helps me a lot. Also, God has been very faithful to my family. I try to plan ahead so as to be able to cater to his needs and that of my older children.

How have you been able to combine your career, house chores and parenting?

It has not been easy. But God has been good to me and my family. I am someone that does not like delaying doing anything. We have many people living with us and they also help with house chores and in caring for the baby. My husband and I are thankful for that. When my baby was three weeks old, I went for ministration and also when he was one month and a week old. I accepted all ministration offers and I cannot remember I rejected any because I have put to bed. I try to combine and balance everything well.

What are your biggest challenges as a new mother?

My biggest challenges are getting used to the baby’s new sleeping times and breastfeeding him.

What is your advice to pregnant women and new mothers?

I want to advise pregnant women to go for ante-natal regularly and take their routine drugs as prescribed. New mothers should also be prayerful and eat more fruits to stay healthy. Those who are also praying to have their own kids should intensify prayers because God will make them smile.

Do you intend to practise exclusive breastfeeding?

Of course, I intend to practise exclusive breastfeeding. But it will only last for three months. I cannot go beyond that because I have to work and they will have to eat. I did three-month exclusive breastfeeding for my first three children and I do not think I will change it.

What kind of clothes were you comfortable wearing while pregnant?

I wore flowing or short gowns during pregnancy. But sometimes, I put on jeans and a long top.

As a singer, do you sing lullabies for your baby?

Yes I sing a lot for him. Funny enough, he now likes me singing to him. Whenever he cries and I start singing, he stops crying and looks straight into my eyes.

What songs do you sing?

First, I sing “I love my baby, my baby loves me, no circumstances can change my decision.” Others are “Dandavid is a handsome boy, iya iya oh, Dany tell me what you have, I have joy, joy joy, joy in the lord, joy everlasting for evermore and I have peace etc.”

Famous quote

To describe my mother would be to write about a hurricane in its perfect power. Or the climbing, falling colours of a rainbow — Maya Angelou

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]