My wife keeps my ATM cards — Igos
On-Air Presenter and comedian, Omoro Iledia, popularly known as Igos, and his wife, Lynda who is a model/make-up artiste, tell ARUKAINO UMUKORO about their four-year-old union

How did you meet?

Igos: We met in 2007 at the University of Benin, Edo State. We became good friends from there and, like they say, the rest is history.

Lynda: We first met in 2007 at UNIBEN, where I studied computer science. We were introduced by a mutual friend. I was in my hostel when he came to visit with his friends.

What attracted you to her?

Igos: I wouldn’t say it was love at first sight. For me, it was just friendship. Later it went the other way around. We became very good friends and decided to take it to the next level. One of the things I saw in her was that she was interested in what I do. She is also God-fearing. We got married in July 20, 2013.

Lynda: It wasn’t love at first sight, but I was attracted by his personality. Like he said too, he was really interested in what I was doing at the time. I was modelling and doing other things like make-up artistry on the side. He wasn’t judgmental to ask why I was doing something outside of what I studied. He accepted me for who I am. And we became good friends from the beginning.

How long was your courtship?

Igos: Our courtship started officially in late 2010.

Lynda: We courted for three years because we were friends and didn’t want to rush. Friendship gave us time to become more independent. Let me put it that way.

How would you describe your marriage so far?

Igos: It is a new chapter in our lives and it has been amazing. Like they say, marriage is the only school that one gets a certificate before one enters into it. That aside, we have been blessed with two children. We are grateful to God and we are happy together.

Lynda: It has been blissful. Of course, every union has its own issues, but in all, it has been beautiful.

Why do you think celebrity marriages crash?

Igos: Marriage depends on the individuals in it. I usually tell newly-wedded couples during their reception that no matter the advice from the chairman or the church, marriage is about understanding, like BODMAS in mathematics. Couples have to derive their own formula to solve their own equation and not rely on someone else’s formula. It is not something I want to talk about. But in all, it takes the grace of God and understanding.

How did he propose?

Lynda: He proposed to me in South Africa when we went for the Africa Cup of Nations competition in January 2013. We had gone out for dinner at Sandton that day with a few friends that also came from Nigeria. After we had finished eating, he started saying beautiful things about me and before I knew it, he had gone on one knee and popped the question. I said yes.

Igos: I didn’t pre-plan the proposal per se because we had just gone for our normal holiday. Before then, we had made it mandatory to spend a part of our holiday during a football competition. We went to AFCON to have fun. One night, after we had gone to watch a couple of games of the Super Eagles, I told a friend who stays in South Africa that I wanted to propose to her and I asked him how I should go about it. While she was sleeping that night, I measured her finger with a rope. The following day, I went to purchase the ring and that evening, I proposed to her.

How do you combine parenting and your career?

Igos: To be sincere, it has not been that easy because, I as much as one would love to spend more time with one’s family, the Nigerian economy means one has to work very hard to at least provide averagely for one’s family, and that alone takes a lot of one’s time. I try to separate my business from my family. Most times, when I am home, it is just family matters. When I am outside, then I am more of a businessman.

Lynda: I wouldn’t say it has been challenging because from the outset. I had always known what I wanted. I’m not a superwoman but I try as much as I can to give adequate time to my family and business. I don’t joke with family time, nothing comes in between that. I try to balance both worlds.

How interesting is it sharing similar interests despite having different career paths?

Igos: One thing is for the couple to know what they want and what they want to become. That would help to guide their decision. They should both decide what works for them on time.

How often do you have disagreements and who apologises first?

Igos: I would want her to answer the question first (laughs). We have disagreements but you know women like to have their way. Most of the time, I apologise first.

Lynda: Every couple has disagreements sometimes. Yes, it the way he said it.

Do you operate a joint account?

Igos: No, we don’t but she has my ATM cards and she knows my PIN.

Lynda: Let’s just leave it that way (laughs).

How do you plan to celebrate your fourth wedding anniversary?

Igos: Stylishly, our wedding was two days to her birthday. It is going to be a two-in-one celebration.

What are some of the most memorable moments of your marriage so far?

Lynda: Our wedding day of course and the birth of our two children.

Igos: I agree with her.

What is your husband’s favourite meal?

Lynda: It used to be starch and banga soup, Later on, it became eba and ogbono soup.

Igos: Her favourite meal used to be boiled yam and beans.

How do you cope with his female fans?

Lynda: I don’t consider such as something I should be bothered about.

Igos: Like I mentioned earlier, when I am at work, it is strictly work, except for emergency. When, I’m home, it’s all about my family.

Do you allow third parties to settle your quarrels?

Igos: No, I don’t disclose our disagreements with an outsider.

Lynda: No, we don’t.

What pet names do you call each other?

Igos: We call each other ‘babes.’

Lynda: Babes.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]