The age gap controversy
GBENGA ADENIJI writes about the age difference some individuals prefer between them and their partners

Some persons are finicky about the difference in their ages when it comes to who they want to marry. Others do not see any need to be selective in such a matter once their intended partners have matching traits.

A lawyer, Mr. Seun Oluwabamise, belongs to the category of the latter. He believes that love and mutual understanding should be the watchword among love birds.

He said, “It is all about love and understanding. I can still cope if the person is three years older. If I can be attracted to older, beautiful women, nothing stops me from marrying an older woman if there is love and understanding.’’

A businesswoman based in Ghana, Mrs. Funmilola Afuape, noted that she cannot marry anybody who is more than five years older than her.

She added that marrying somebody older than that would make her feel she married a ‘daddy.’

“I think I will be more comfortable with marrying someone who is not more than five years older than I am. This is important so that I do not feel as if he is my father. I want to also say that if the man is a European, the age difference won’t be a problem. This kind of situation happens a lot among the whites,” she said.

According to her, western concept of marriage is alien to the African setting where getting married to an older man often raises a lot of questions.

Afuape stated, “Many may say the person married the older person for pecuniary benefits. In African setting, especially among the Yoruba, one is likely to hear something like ‘How is your daddy?’, a mischievous way of asking after the husband of a woman who married a man twice her age or much older.’’

On his part, entrepreneur and business analyst, Mr. Oluseun Adegbola, said he could marry an older person.

He, however, added that the person should not be ‘excessively older’ than he is. “I can marry anybody who is two or three years older than I am, ’’Adegbola noted.

The entrepreneur added more conditions by saying, “The older person has to compensate my desire to marry her with her poise, elegance, refinement and manners. A little bit of class and fair pecuniary standing will also be a factor. Where all these are lacking, it is a capital NO for me.”

Also commenting on the issue, an Abuja-based culture advocate, Mr. Frank Alabi, said age difference should not be an issue in any union.

He stated that maturity and conviction of purpose should drive the partners, adding that if a man and woman decide to marry, they should endeavour to submit to each other’s mutual resolution.

Alabi added, “Notwithstanding my standpoint, I want to advise that the gap should not be more than 10 years. This is crucial because, one, women tend to age faster than men and there could be both physical and psychological mismatch at this period. Also, a man could easily succumb to external pressure to let go when he thinks of the wife as old enough to be his mother.”

A US-based lawyer, Mr. Tosin Agboola, disagreed with the position of Alabi that age should not be wholly considered in the choice of partners.

“Honestly, it will be a no for me to marry someone who is older. Even in this age of modernisation and globalisation, I remain an African man with strong ties to my culture despite my place of abode,’’ Agboola said.

For an Ondo-based educationist, Mr. Fagbemigun Adediran, there should be nothing wrong in marrying older persons even though he pegged his preferred age difference in making such a decision to two years.

“The choice of who to marry should never be about age but love. The bond of love is the strongest force that attracts without recourse to any other factor,’’ he argued.

A civil servant, Mrs. Toyin Owolabi, was of the view that marrying someone older is better compared to someone younger. She noted, however, that the age gap should not be too wide.

Owolabi noted, “Compatibility is key in this matter. When I say compatibility, it has to be total and holistic. Depending on how compatible the individuals are, the age gap between them should not be more than five or seven years. I think it should not exceed that except on conditions of high (close-knit level) compatibility of both parties to achieve perfect understanding in their marriage.”

Also, an educationist, Mr. Edwin Ondor, said he cannot marry an older person no matter the age difference, noting that an imbalance would be created by the age gap later in the union.

Ondor stated, “It could later trigger psychological reality that we are far apart on the calendar side of life. I agree that age is just a number as people say. But what about the psychological torture that ‘she is older than I am?’ It is an uncomfortable fact that would keep reappearing like a recurring decimal.”

He stated that individuals preferring to marry older persons should understand that they live in a society where one’s actions, especially the ones with far-reaching effects, would be weighed on the scale of ‘public morality’ dictated by idiosyncratic nuances and culture of the people.

For Kunle Adegoke, who is a bank worker, there should be no tangible reason for anybody to go into a relationship with older persons except for monetary benefits.

He recalled that there was a time he planned to date a woman older than him by five years but decided against it when the future implications stared him in the face.

According to Adegoke, it was not love that made him make the decision in the first place. “She was financially okay and I thought I could benefit from the relationship. She bossed me around and always behaved as if she was doing me a favour by having a relationship with me. In fact, because of my background, I sometimes got carried away by showing her respect. She was usually embarrassed during those moments. There was a day she asked me to run some errands and I made up my mind to quit the relationship,” he noted.

He also said society often deride younger women who married men old enough to be their fathers not to talk of men seen as gold diggers for daring to date older women. “It is a personal choice, if anybody is comfortable doing so, I cannot begrudge such a person his or her choice. But even ladies, who naturally marry people older than they are, also have a limit to the age gap in making choices, ’’ he stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]