Dating a physically challenged person
Being in a relationship with a disabled person can be demanding. Here are some tips to keep in mind, writes JOY MARCUS

Be respectful

Your partner should be accorded the same amount of respect as anyone else. He or she should be seen as a person and not an impairment. Focus on your partner’s personality and don’t put a “label” on the disability because it might hurt them if they are described by their disability.

Communication

It’s frustrating for someone with a disability to have to deal with people never talking directly to him or her. By talking to them, it makes them free and willing to express their feelings. In as much as their body is not functioning fully, it doesn’t mean that your conversations won’t be appreciated.

Be patient and ask questions, if necessary

Always let your partner speak and move at their pace, without you pressuring them to talk, think, or move faster. If you don’t understand your partner, don’t be afraid to ask questions. Don’t assume you know what he or she said because it can be detrimental and embarrassing if you misunderstand him or her, so always double-check.

Talk about the disability

It may not be appropriate to ask about your partner’s disability out of curiosity, but if you feel that it might help you make the situation easier for him or her, then you should ask questions. But remember that she might have been asked about her disability so many times and knows how to explain it in a few sentences. If the disability resulted from an accident or he or she finds the information too personal, wait until they are ready to talk.

See the heart, not chart

If your partner struggles with a chronic disease or injury, take a moment to see beyond the medical chart, the broken body and the pain-filled eyes and connect to the heart of the extraordinary person who captured your heart.

Put yourself in their shoes

It may be easier to understand how to deal with people who have disabilities if you imagine having a disability yourself. Think about how you would want people to talk and treat you as this will help you have a little idea of what your partner might be feeling.

Don’t focus on the disability

By focusing on your partner’s disability, it will gradually reduce the sparkle in your relationship and make it become more like a chore. It is important that your partner is treated equally as anyone else, talk to them as you would talk to anyone and act as you would normally act if you were dating a person who is not physically disabled.

Offer help when necessary

You might be hesitant to help your partner for fear of offending him or her. If you are offering help because of an assumption that he or she can’t help themselves, then your offer could be offensive. However, if you are not sure of a specific way to help, you can always ask them how you can be of help to them.

Avoid playing with your partner’s wheelchair or walking device

Touching or playing with your partner’s device can be uncomfortable or annoying. If you ever feel the need to move their wheelchair, you should ask for permission first and wait for their response. Do not ask to play with someone’s wheelchair or walking device because it is like an extension of their body.

Avoid getting in the way

Try to be courteous around your partner by staying out of the way. Move to the side if you see that he or she is attempting to navigate in a wheelchair. If you notice that your partner does not seem to be strong and steady on his or her feet, offer help verbally and don’t invade your partner’s personal space. If he or she asks you for assistance, be prepared to give it.

Acknowledge that most people with disabilities have adapted

Some disabilities are present from birth while others come later in life due to accident or illness. However your partner might have learnt how to adapt and take care of him or her independently. As a result of that, it can be offensive or annoying to assume that your partner is dependent.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]