If a marriage is all-rosy, then it’s questionable —John Njamah
Nollywood actor, filmmaker and content producer, John Njamah and his Cameroonian wife, Angwi tell BUKOLA BAKARE what makes their marriage tick

How did you meet your wife?

John: I met my wife through a combination of divine providence, chance and accident. When we met at a conference, it was just a ‘‘Hello, how are you?’’ kind of thing and we lost contact after a while. Then a few months later, we met again and then we struck a chord and realised that we could start from somewhere. Things just grew naturally and we just found ourselves gravitating towards each other.

Angwi: I trained as a journalist but I work more on the administrative side. He came to my country (Cameroon) for a conference and that was how we met. We lost contact for a while and thankfully, social media helped and somehow, we were able to reconnect again.

Were there some qualities that endeared you to each other?

John: I wasn’t looking out for anything in particular because I like to be open-minded. If I had been looking out for something in particular, then it would have become demystified. I can’t really place my finger on it but she is an extremely beautiful woman and that endeared me to her in a way.

Angwi: You know how it is when you meet somebody and you don’t really have the opportunity to know them at first glance. When we reconnected, we started out as friends and we began to talk a lot and got to like each other. John is a very simple and gentle person. He is also very calm and I really liked that.

How long was your courtship?

John: It took like a year and a few months before I popped the big question. Our wedding anniversary came up on July 21.

How would you describe your journey through marriage?

John: It’s been an amazing journey, full of fun and rough at the same time. We have been blessed by God. If I should add, one of the major challenges that we’ve had is that we have taken into cognisance the nature of my job; I am always travelling. Luckily, my wife is a media person but she is more into media management and she understands the nature of my job. For instance, I could be in Nigeria, Cameroon, CoteD’ Ivoire at various times, so that was very challenging but somehow, we have been able to weather those storms as we progress in our marriage.

Angwi: Ours has not been an easy ride because I am still based in Cameroon for the most part. It’s either I am coming to Nigeria or he is coming to Cameroon.

How do you cope with the distance as a couple?

Angwi: We just find a way to make things work. When my husband is off work, he comes to Cameroon. Now, I am off work for a couple of months, so I am here in Nigeria with him. Somehow, we try to strike a balance. For us, it is difficult because we need each other’s attention so much but so far, it has been good because each time we ‘reunite’, it is always like we are starting all over again so there is no dull moment in our lives.

What is the role of finance in marriage; does it supersede love?

John: I think love should come first in every marriage because if you put finance first, then love dies.

Angwi: I would say that every marriage needs 50-50 of both love and finance. For instance, I love John so much and our marriage is all about the both of us. When the kids start coming, how do we cope? Yes, we love each other deeply but they need to be taken care of, that is where the finance now comes to play. We are an African couple and we have bills to pay, so finance is important lest we die of hunger.

But some people would argue that love without finance won’t stand the test of time; do you share that sentiment?

John: No, I don’t because where true love exists, a lot can be endured and that is very important. Even if there is no finance, you must realise that it can’t be forever. It is now left to the both of you as a couple to use true love as a stepping stone towards improving your financial life and things will work out.

Every marriage is fraught with disagreements from time to time; how often do you disagree in your home and who apologises first?

John: As a married man, I understand my wife so well. I know when she is angry and I know exactly what to say to pacify her. When we started, I used to say to her, ‘‘Oh, why did you do that?’’ and that wasn’t working. Now, I have come to realise that women have different ways of saying ‘‘I’m sorry’’ without necessarily saying it. My wife is not the ‘‘I’m sorry darling’’ type but there are things that she does that would make you know that she is truly sorry. When she hurts me, she does one or two things- she can just prepare my best meal, run water in the bathroom for me to have my bath, play my best movie and stuff like that. Then, I know that she is truly sorry.

Angwi: Quite frankly, I like to be naughty sometimes and when we disagree, I blame it on his ego. We make fun out of these things and we keep moving along.

What was the reaction of your family when you decided to marry a Nigerian?

Angwi: You don’t even want to know. My father understood a bit but my mother who can be a drama queen sometimes didn’t find it funny because we come from two different societies. My mother viewed those in showbiz as being reckless from her Cameroonian perspective and she didn’t understand it from a Nigerian standpoint that you can find some responsible people in the industry. Somehow, she eventually accepted him. Now, my husband has taken over my mother and they are best of buddies. I call her ‘‘my boo’’ which is like someone’s buddy but now, I am no longer that because John has taken over the slot.

Why did you settle for a Cameroonian as a wife?

John: The fact that she is a Cameroonian did not occur to me until we got married and we had to agree on cultural and traditional differences in nationalities. I didn’t deliberately set out to marry one. Ironically, my mother is Cameroonian and I have family in Cameroon so it was no big deal coping with differences in nationalities.

What would be your advice to prospective couples who are still in courtship and those who are about to get married?

John: To prospective couples, do not ever make your love or union be about money because most marriages these days are money-based- women want a rich footballer, entertainer or politician and if you look around, these are the marriages that have been crashing. Do not go into marriage because of material things. Let it be about true love and understanding. Make sure that you like this person truly to want to spend the rest of your life with him or her and make sure that you are ready to endure all that will come your way. More importantly, ask the right questions because a lot of men and women do not ask the right questions before they pop the big question, they just allow themselves to be carried away by that momentary affection. Let your affection not be momentary, let it be there for a long time.

Angwi: People shouldn’t go into marriage and expect it to be full of thorns; they should look for those moments that they can live in. They should not always think that getting married is going to be fun all the way as well. Bad days will come and you feel like just breaking down and crying your eyes out. Those days will always be there. Couples should also try to see the best in each other, provide support structures and understand the backgrounds that they are coming from. You don’t just know a person in totality; situations make people and every couple must understand that.

What is the most memorable gift that your wife bought for you?

John: It’s a bracelet with her name engraved on it.

Do you think that couples should have mentors?

John: It is important to fight your battles on your own. I am somebody that hates third party intervention in my home so I’d rather sort out my issues with my wife on my own.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]