Dad told his 50-year-old son he was too young to drink — Faleti’s son
Gbemisola is one of the children of the late broadcaster, writer and actor, Adebayo Faleti. He talks about his father’s ideals with OLUFEMI ATOYEBI

What position do you occupy among the children of your father?

As a man from a pure-bred Yoruba family, I observe all the traits exhibited by our forefathers which my father also upheld until he died on Sunday. Yoruba has an adage that, “A kii ka omo f’olomo,” which means tradition forbids one to count the number of children a man has.

We are many in the family and I am one of the sons of the late Faleti. I have brothers and sisters who are elderly and I have siblings who are younger than I am. Let’s just say that I occupy a position in the middle of my father’s children.

What do you do for a living?

I am a civil servant, an artist and a writer. I have acted in movies and written movie scripts for film production.

Did your father influence your choice of profession?

My father mentored me and contributed to my development. Whenever I wrote a script, I would take it to him and he would make necessary corrections. With that, I grew up to become a good writer. I learned creativity from him. When he was alive, I was very close to him.

We went to social and business functions together and at a point, I was his personal driver. Whenever he travelled out of Ibadan, Oyo State, I would drive him to his destination. Sometimes, we would stay for more than one day. At night, we would talk on several issues. He would tell me our family history and stories I have never heard from anyone. He would also teach me Yoruba adages.

Our relationship went beyond that of father and son. When I graduated from the university and I was free to see him frequently, we became close friends. I was one of the closest children to him. I know his secrets; he told me the actions he took and regretted and the ones he was proud of. Experiences from his past guided my early life and they are still helpful to me today.

Can you tell us some of the experiences he shared with you?

He told me not to engage in vices, drinking and smoking. At a time when I was drinking, he was not aware because I hid that attitude from him. He was a disciplined individual who did not accept irresponsible behaviour from us.

In those days, if we were drinking at a party and he made his appearance, we would all hide the bottles. I remember him telling my older brother, who is a lawyer that he was too young to drink. At the time, my brother was over 50 years. He said it when he caught him drinking at a party. You can imagine a man telling his 50-year-old son that he is too young to drink.

I never saw him smoke or drink more than a bottle of stout. He had a habit of hosting his friends at home regularly in those days. He would buy drinks for them, cook food and chat with them for a long time. At each of the meeting, he would hold a bottle of stout and he might not finish it. In fact, he was only taking it just to align with his friends or be on the same page with them.

He was a man who hated vices. Whenever we did something wrong, he would tell us in Yoruba, ‘Baa ba gbe’bi t’aa l’enikan, iwa laani,’ meaning if you find yourself in an environment where your relatives are not with you, you must make good behavior your companion. He was a clean man until death.

When we visited the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, to break the news of our father’s death to him as the tradition demands when a prince of Oyo dies, the monarch commented that Faleti was a man with no blemish.

Another thing my father told me regularly is that I should not be found in a position where I would not be able to defend or explain myself. He said that I should not let the love of money put me in trouble. He would normally say that I should not work for money but allow money to work for me.

How did he raise such a large family where he had children from more than one wife living under one roof?

We were living in Yemetu area of Ibadan and at the time, our house was a beehive of activities. More than 20 people, apart from members of the family, ate in our house every day.

My father had a drama group called Egbe Alebiosu. Because he was a civil servant, it was managed by his subordinates like Tunbosun Odunsi, Ayo Williams (popularly called Papa Lolo), Misturat Asunmo and so on. When he left for work, my mother would cook for all of them. At times, they would sleep over. That was the ambience in our house at the time.

When we moved to our house in Ojoo area of Ibadan, it was the same thing. He had many visitors because they all wanted to be around him.

How did he discipline his children?

I will give you an instance to answer that question. When I wanted to take my final secondary school examinations in 1993, he came to Oyo, where I was schooling to give me the money. He could have paid directly but he gave the money to me. It was about N300. I was passing by a place where they were playing kalokalo. It’s a game where you stake money. I used the money to play and lost everything.

Somehow, I managed to tell him what happened. He beat the hell out of me. There is something we called orogun in Yoruba land. It’s a stick used to stir amala (yam flour). That was what he used to beat me. The more I tried to escape, the more I got beaten. When he beat any of his kid, he would not listen to any plea on behalf of that child.

How much importance did he place on education?

He loved education so much. That was why he ensured all of us got good education. He would visit us in school at regular intervals. When I was in secondary school and the university, he visited me often and that was when people knew that my father was the popular Faleti.

It was at this period that I realised how big the name and his personality were. That also opened my mind to the fact that with such name and father, I must not be found in an ungodly act. He spent everything he had on his children’s education. When I entered the university, it coincided with his retirement so things were a bit difficult. He had to take up senior research fellow work at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife with his friend, Prof. Akinwumi Isola. Whenever I needed money, he would ask me to meet him in Ile-Ife to collect the money. That was how much he never wanted us to lack anything.

Even when I was working, anytime he called me and I sounded poorly on the telephone, he would ask me if I was broke and that I should come and take money. If I visited him and I offered him money, he would reject it and offered me money instead.

Do the name and personality of your father place any burden on you?

I do not feel any burden but I am always conscious of the reputation my father built over several decades. I am always reminded that I must not spoil the name. This is also for all his children and grandchildren.

One day, a subordinate at work challenged me that I did not greet people like my father. I protested and asked if he wanted me to prostrate for him. But that small event sent a message to me that people were watching me. I started greeting people well from that time just to reflect my father’s feature in me. It refined my relationship with people.

The major challenge we are faced with is how to sustain his name and personality. He was a recipient of national award, ordinary doctor of letter, the second artist to have national recognition after the late Hubert Ogunde, fellow, National Academy of Letters, translator of the National Anthem from English to Yoruba, translator for some presidents and leaders of this country and so on. He wrote so many poems, books and plays. How do you step into such shoes?

We will try our best as his children to sustain the legacy. Prof. Wande Abimbola on Tuesday said he would be happy to read books written by Faleti’s children.

With many children from different mothers, how was your father able to love them equally without causing disaffection among them?

It was a big challenge but my father was a thoroughbred Yoruba man who knew how to manage home. If he wanted to give you money, the next person would not know. He would find a way of taking you away from where people could see him giving you money before he offered it. He did it to me several times when I was in the school. He was a man who loved all his children equally. Every child in the house was equal to him.

Being busy, did he create time to have fun with his family?

He loved doing it till his old age. He would take us to the zoo and other places to have fun. He once had a privilege to take one person with him on a tour of the Old Oyo National Park and he took me with him. It was the only time I visited the place. We spent four days there. When he grew old and weak, I would go home and drive him to the University of Ibadan zoo because I know he loved nature. He also loved hunting as pastime. He would go hunting for days with traditional hunters. He took two of my brothers, Gboyega and Adebiyi, on game hunting. I also learned how to hunt from him but I am not as perfect as my brothers. They were our father’s co-hunters.

One of his drama group members, Tunbosun Odunsi, also went hunting with him. They would go as far as Ikere after Iseyin and spend as much as three days in the forest, killing big animals like deer, antelopes and the likes. In those days, our fridge was always stocked with bush meat. While planning the trip, my father would inform local hunters to join him.

Did you take part in any of his films?

I took part in the recent Bashorun Gaa, Sawo Sogberi, Fere bi Ekun, Owo Eje, Ofin Ga and so on. I also took part in Dele Odule and other artistes’ movies. This is because of what I imbibed from him. I subtitled all his films too.

Which of his books and films do you like most?

All his works were great and interesting but I love the film Basorun Gaa. I played the role Gaa’s son. I also like the book Omo Olokun Esin. Ade Love adapted it to Ija Ominira film.

How did he communicate with his children at home?

He did not speak to us in English and it did not stop us from understanding English very well. I am trying to do that with my children but it is difficult these days. It’s a task every Yoruba parent must do. If you speak to my father in English, he would answer you in Yoruba. He had another word for Hello when he answered a telephone call. He would say ‘Enle o.’ Prof. Akinwumi Isola does the same. They will not answer telephone calls in Yoruba except when it was necessary. It is hard to believe that my father was a graduate of English.

What will the family miss most about him?

I have been having sleepless night since he passed on, thinking of who will do what he was doing for me. The family will miss him in many respects.

There were many things my father told me about life. He would call me and ask me to start writing what he had to say. He told me the story of his lineage as a prince and how his grandfather missed being crowned Alaafin of Oyo. I will miss that definitely. If you sit with him for several hours, you would not be bored.

Before he died, he once asked a visitor if he knew the house where death resided because he wanted him to take him there. That was the extent he would go to make you laugh. I will miss that creativity too.

I was at a location in Ibadan and some of the artistes were speaking poor Yoruba and arguing with me that they were right. I called my father to tell us the correct version. I also called him from my office in Oyo one day when we had argument about the meaning of a Yoruba adage. He explained it to us and told us the story behind the Oyo adage. Who will I call now to seek clarification on cultural matters and personal advice? I can’t think of anybody who is versed in cultural matters like him.

There is controversy over his real age. Some quote 86 but his family says he was 95. Why is this so?

According to my father’s account, he must have been born between 1918 and 1920. Just like many people of his age, he did not have the record of his birth as many people of his age have. He knew he was born around December time. Somehow, the family recorded December 26, 1921. He would have been 96 in December. That is the family position now.

Where are his friends who could have said one or two things about his age?

Almost all his friends are dead. That was one of the challenges of his old age. The few that remain were no longer strong enough to visit him. Former Oyo State governor, the late Kolapo Isola was his school mate at Ibadan Boys High School. Dejo Raimi, Depo Babalola, Bayo Sanda and so on were other friends who are dead.

He worked at high places and one would have thought that he would be a rich man. How true is this?

My father did not amass wealth. As long as he could feed the family and later himself, he was satisfied. He had only two houses all his life; one in Ibadan and the other in Oyo. He never engaged in the habit of amassing landed property like many people do. He used what he had to help people and train his family.

He was given a plot of land each in two choice areas of Ibadan but he rejected them because he did not want to be caught with any blemish or anything that would silence him. At the end of the day, he did not lack. He achieved what he set out to do.

What will the family do about his unpublished works?

We will start working on it. A former First Bank Chairman, Prince Ajibola Afonja, mentioned it that there were many unpublished works of our father. He charged us to work on them to immortalise him.

The family will hold a meeting to think of other ways of honouring him. We could set up a museum, a charity foundation or an endowment. The family and his associate will decide at the appropriate time.

There is a signature way your father wore his cap. What informed that?

There is a story behind that. He was a Yoruba newscaster and at a time whenever he wanted to go on air, he was having difficulty of bending the cap in a convenient way. So he fashioned out a simple, modest but eye-cashing way of wearing his cap. He would not do a thing without a reason.

As a man who loved doing things in traditional way, did he wear foreign clothes?

He did in the past and many people who did not see him at work many years ago will not know this. He stopped wearing them after his retirement. He had more than 50 suits. When he became the general manager of BCOS, he was always in native attire and people started calling him a ‘local man.’ He responded by travelling to London to purchase many suits and fitting shoes.

What was his favourite meal?

As an Oyo prince, amala, gbegiiri (beans soup) and ewedu (Jew’s mallow) were his best food.

Before he became old, did he engage in any sporting activities?

He loved to walk a far distance on weekends. Sometimes, he would take me along and I would be panting beside him. He would walk several kilometers before returning home.

What house chores did he love doing?

I am aware that nobody could arrange his clothes for him. He never allowed anybody to take care of his wardrobe for him.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]