The cosmetic surgery debate
Some men express views on their likely disposition should their spouses desire to undergo cosmetic surgery, writes GBENGA ADENIJI

Every individual desires good looks. Hence, there is no extent chic persons won’t go to enhance their loveliness. One of the ways is either through cosmetic or plastic surgery which women in particular embrace as a reliable beauty option.

Experts on cosmetic surgery explained that it could be performed on any part of the face and body.

According to them, for the face, the surgeries include cheek lift, botox, chin surgery, dermabrasion, cosmetic dentistry, eyebrow/forehead rejuvenation (brow lift), blepharoplasty (eye surgery), face-lift, facial contouring, neck lift and facial wrinkles among others.

Abdomen reduction (tummy tuck), liposuction, breast augmentation, arm lift, breast lift, breast reduction, buttock lift (belt lipectomy), circumferential body lift and inner thigh lift including laser hair removal are some of the surgeries to enhance the body.

But despite the long-standing facial and bodily testimonies noticeable in women who have undergone cosmetic surgeries, some men are unwilling to support their wives if they desire it.

One of them is a legal assistant, Mr. Olumide Olasunkanmi, who maintained that he cannot support his wife should she decide to augment her beauty via cosmetic surgery.

He added, “I see such as a no-go area. As a professional who is also into church ministry, I cannot support her desire for such. I don’t think she needs to go for any sort of surgery to look more beautiful,”

He added that God already made all He created beautiful, noting that any attempts to artificially modify parts of one’s body was tantamount to querying God’s perfect way of creation. “In the long run, the result is always disastrous, ’’ he stated.

A lawyer based in Lagos, Mr. Jamiu Akolade, said there was nothing wrong in supporting one’s wife do cosmetic surgery. “I will support my wife to do cosmetic surgery if it makes her feel good about herself and it is done safely. Enhancement of the body by exercise, cosmetics or surgery is fine if it is within limits,’’ the lawyer said.

A business manager at a Lagos-based firm, Mr. Ayodeji Babatunde, said he would not encourage his wife to do cosmetic surgery.

He argued that the adverse effects of cosmetic surgery cannot be overemphasised.

Medical experts at the US-based Mayo Clinic say the goal of cosmetic surgery is to improve a person’s appearance and in turn impact on the person’s self-esteem and self-confidence.

Also, Mr. Olumide Adewunmi, who is an arts collector, noted that having accepted his wife the way she is, there would be no need for her to consider cosmetic surgery.

Adewunmi stated, “I have accepted my wife the way she is and I don’t feel any cosmetic surgery is necessary. The real essence of my wife’s​ beauty resides more in her inner being. Moreover, I wouldn’t want her to expose herself to the dangers of cosmetic surgery.”

An Oyo State-based civil engineer, Mr. Robert Solomon, opined that undergoing cosmetic surgery was often propelled by inferiority complex and desire to want to be part of a certain status or class. He explained that such was unacceptable to him if that would inform the person’s decision in the first instance.

Solomon stated, “To me, I think the old saying that beauty is in the eyes of the beholder is apt in this case. Someone can do cosmetic surgery and not be appealing like a person who is naturally endowed and doesn’t undergo any artificial modifications.”

According to him, his love for his wife is not entirely about her looks but the values she possesses which initially drew him to her.

“Does it mean that if my wife does not do cosmetic surgery or other things to enhance her beauty I won’t appreciate her when we are both old? I love my wife whether she does cosmetic surgery or not. I don’t support artificial alteration either to the body or face,” he stated.

But Mrs. Oyindamola Abusi, who is a beauty therapist, said there was nothing bad in cosmetic surgery since its overall goal centres on wholesome enhancement of the person doing it. Abusi, who runs a beauty parlour in Ikeja, Lagos, explained that its merits outweigh the demerits.

“There are experts in this field and once the person gets a good one, there will be nothing to worry about,” she said.

In an earlier interview with SUNDAY PUNCH, an international plastic surgeon and a member of the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, Dr. Stanley Okoro, said both men and women could do surgery to look good.

Okoro stated, “The most popular procedures for women are liposuction, tummy tuck and Brazilian buttock lift. Brazilian butt lift is also called fat transfer, fat grafting, BBL, or what I refer to as the NBL – Naija Butt Lift. For men, the most popular procedure is excess fat removal with liposuction. A lot of men struggle with excess fat on their chests, abdomens and even chins.”

He said that the merits of surgery in enhancing beauty were many, adding such also has the ability of improving people’s quality of life.

A clothier and make-up artist, Ms. Olayinka Farominiyi, said she cannot do cosmetic surgery.

She, however, did not refute claims that it enhances beauty.

Farominiyi stated, “I have discovered that it leaves those who do it with wrinkles later in life. It is not something one does and stops. One will continue doing it to modify one area or another in one’s body. I think I can liken it to a lie. Once someone tells a lie, you have to keep telling more lies to cover the last one you told.’’

Also, a businesswoman based in Osun State, Mrs. Mayowa Adekeye-Bamisaiye, jokingly said she could do it if affordable to at least remove an incision on her face. “I like it if it is not too expensive. Once it is not life-threatening, I can do it. My only fear is that I cannot do the ones that claimed the lives of some people,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]