A successful father with bad kids will have eternal pain — Ogunbadejo
A medical doctor and the Governor of Rotary International District 9110, Dr. Adewale Ogunbadejo, shares his fatherhood experience with GBENGA ADENIJI

What is your definition of fatherhood?

It is a great responsibility given to a male parent to guide children who are gifts from God through the initial stage of life towards becoming useful members of society in future.

When did you become a father?

I got married on my 26th birthday, September 14 1985 and exactly three months, 24 days after precisely on January 8, 1986, I became a father. That was when my first child; a daughter, was born.

What lessons have you learnt from the experience?

I thank God for permitting me to be a father because it is not a given that you become a father the moment you get married. It is through Him and His permission that you become one. l have five biological children (two boys and three girls) and many non-biological children have passed through our roof. Fatherhood, like motherhood, is a great experience. But it is an experience that one should go through prayerfully. This is because having children in your guidance, who are watching your examples and taking you as a role model is a great responsibility. It is a responsibility that one must take knowingly and a step one must take prayerfully. Some children have fathers who are unable to influence them positively.

How have you been able to influence your children positively?

A father should be one who can positively influence the children that God has given him to take care of. At a certain stage they will gain independence. But before that time, you must have tried in your own way to instill in them the right values. The values that make them know that there is a creator, consequences for their actions and that each human being is unique and they must respect everybody. The values that make a male child know that he must not be a master over his wife. The father must behave to his wife the way he wants his son to behave to his wife. The father must show good example. The children must see love between their parents because without love there cannot be a marriage. Without love, they will think it is the best way to live. The role of a father or a parent is very great. Sometimes, when I look back, I ask, “Lord, how did we go through it?” We have five wonderful children who we are proud of. There is no way anybody will see them and won’t say, “Oh, you have well-trained children.” If one does not get it right in that area, it is like one wasted one’s time.

Even if you have a wonderful career and your children don’t turn out well, it will be the greatest pain for the rest of the father’s life. One cannot train children well by oneself. One needs to pray that God should guide one right in that regard. Don’t say because your children are no longer under your roof, your parenting duties have stopped. You have to keep praying for them to get it right in their career, marriage and so on. It is a life-time responsibility. Some turn out well independently but many of them need guidance. There are some children who don’t relate with their parents once they are on their own. If one has turned his children to friends as they grow up, it will be easy to relate with them well later in life.

Did you witness the birth of any of your children?

I witnessed the birth of the first and the last two. The first birth for a mother, on the average, is usually the most traumatic because she has not gone through it before and that pain is always intense.

On that day, I was at a hospital in Maryland, Ikeja, assisting my boss with an operation. I left home early that day and she was quite advanced in her pregnancy. In fact, it was few days to her expected date of delivery. In the night of the previous day, I noticed how she was feeling and I asked if anything was wrong. She told me that she was fine. I told her that I would be out early the next day to assist with an operation and she told me to go. We were the only two at home then. I was at work when I got a call that my wife went to the market to buy some baby things. And that it was there she discovered that her water had broken. From then, she was rushed to the hospital.

I went there and saw her in the labour room. I was chatting with her when after some minutes she felt pain and started shouting my name. I immediately ran away from the room. I allowed my sister-in-law and niece to be with her. It was when I heard the baby’s cry that I went in. The birth of the last two children was easy because at that time, I had a hospital. We were staying on the upper floor, so she just walked downstairs. I was not around during the birth of the second and third children because I was either at work or away on a course.

Is any of your children a doctor like you?

Yes, the fourth child, Oluwatosin, is a dentist. I did not influence the career choices of my children. Let me be honest. The one I thought I could influence his career choice is my third child, who is my first son. But unfortunately, he chose Information Technology. I didn’t even know that he changed his mind until he told me that he was not interested in studying medicine. He said he had no patience to be woken at odd hours to attend to patients. I am sure that he did not want to add that he didn’t see the money despite my hard work.

How did you discipline your children?

Because of my busy schedule, my wife and I agreed that anyone of them she warned who refused to listen to her should be reported to me. Once their mother reports them, I used the cane to discipline them. The only thing was that I would not use it on their heads, tummies, chests etc but on their palms, legs and bottom. I did school runs with them. I bond with them well. Kids can be manipulative but once parents are on the same page, it will be hard for them to play funny games.

Which house chores did you help your wife to do?

To be honest, I am lazy in that area. My kids always make fun of me that, “Mother has spoilt daddy.” I always tell them that may they also marry spouses who will spoil them. I am busy as a doctor and it will be hard if I add house chores to that. I am ready to learn anyway as two of my children are now married and they bring my grandkids to visit us.

How do you appreciate your wife?

It is not about finances. It is more about the emotional aspect. When I am not busy, I am at home only that rotary activities also take my time. Women appreciate when you don’t deny them what they want. Even if you don’t have all, give them what you can afford. I appreciate my wife, Olufunmilayo, a lot and she knows it. She has been very supportive.

What has been your greatest challenge as a father?

It was during my children’s teenage years. They often feel they know everything in that period. Sometimes, you allow them to make some mistakes when they insist on doing things their own way. You then correct them with love. We always tell our children that whatever we say is good is good anywhere likewise anything we say is bad. We tell them that we cannot mislead them being their parents. When they were going to boarding school, we emphasised this because of peer pressure. As they grew up, they built the superstructure. One cannot build the entire structure for them.

What values did your father teach you which are now useful in raising your children?

My parents were a wonderful pair. My mother did not receive western education. But my father from all accounts was an intelligent person even though his father who was an Islamic scholar didn’t believe in western education. He was so brilliant but only able to attend modern school. He later took up clerical jobs where he met Europeans and learnt a lot from them. He was a Muslim and wanted his children to practise his religious belief but he was not a die-hard. He taught us the values of discipline, humility, love, tolerance, giving and caring for others. All these are what I am inculcating in my children.

What is your vision for rotary?

Every year, there is a theme for rotary. For year 17/18, it is “Rotary, making a difference.” Of course, Rotarians make a difference in the lives of communities around them and all over the world. Rotarians are humanitarians who believe in selfless service. They sacrifice their time, talents, thinking and resources towards serving others without expecting anything in return. We have six areas of focus in rotary which encompass all the United Nations Millennium Development Goals. They are peace and conflict prevention and resolution, water and sanitation, maternal and child health, disease prevention and treatment, basic literacy and education and economic and community empowerment.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]