My wife has helped me to become a better athlete — Egwero
Ogho-Oghene Egwero, a former 100m national champion and Olympian, is married to a physiotherapist, Akpevwe. They tell ARUKAINO UMUKORO about their three-year-old union

How did you meet?

Ogho-Oghene: We met in 2012; this was during my masters’ degree programme in Delta State University, Abraka.

Akpevwe: We met in Delta State University, Abraka, in 2012 when I was coming back from a Red Cross meeting. He was returning from training. He told me later that he had seen me from a distance before and he was walking slowly so that I could catch up with him.

Was it love at first sight?

Ogho-Oghene: Yes, it was actually. I was taken by her beauty. I was also attracted by her calm personality and she was also smartly dressed. Recently, we celebrated out third year anniversary.

Akpevwe: For him it was. But for me, it wasn’t. He had just finished training and he was still putting on his training tights; he wasn’t attractive to me then. But his persistence attracted me to him after some time. He was not pushy, he gave me a lot of time, but he kept calling. We got married in June 2014.

Were you comfortable dating an athlete?

Akpevwe: I wasn’t comfortable at first because I later knew later that he was a big star. But I got used to it with time. I am happy I married him.

What is it like being married to a star national athlete?

Akpevwe: It is very challenging, as well as exciting. I have to wake up early every morning to get him prepared for his events. Also most of the time, he is out of town to participate in meetings.

How do you feel whenever he is away for a long time to participate in athletic competitions within and outside the country?

Akpevwe: I feel happy and sad at the same time, sad that I would miss him, but happy that he was doing that so he could provide and make things better for us.

Did it ever cross your mind that he may get married to a white woman when he was away in Europe for some time?

Akpevwe: No, it didn’t.

What are some of the most memorable moments of your marriage?

Ogho-Oghene: The day we got married, the birth of our children, and the Warri grand prix she attended. Also, United States’ sprints star, Maurice Greene, was there and he met my wife and he carried my children. I was excited she came to watch my race. Since then, whenever I have any race, I ensure that she comes along with me, if possible.

Akpevwe: Our wedding day was one. Also, when I had my first son and when I attended his first meeting after giving birth. The meet was the Warri Grand Prix in 2015. It was exciting watching his race.

How has marriage helped you to become a better athlete?

Ogho-Oghene: For her, it is a little bit challenging, but for me, it is much better. For example, every morning when I wake up, I find that my sports wears are all prepared. She gets that done and also washes them clean each time I come back from an event. She is also my physiotherapist, as well as secretary (laughs).

Akpevwe: I studied human physiology in Delta State University, Abraka, and there are branches in sports physiology. So, for now, because of him, I am concentrating majorly on the sports aspect. Also, to help him become a better athlete, I read more about sports physiology and how to help him improve through certain relaxation methods and nutrition also, which is most important.

How did you propose?

Ogho-Oghene: I did not exactly make an official proposal to her because I was sure from the first day I met her. As time went on, both of us knew that we were meant for each other. I always told her that we got married before we did the official wedding ceremony.

Akpevwe: Right from the very first moment we met, the first thing he said was that he wanted me to be his wife. I was surprised and within me, I thought it was funny for him to say that, knowing that we had just met for the first time. I thought he was not serious.

How would you describe your marital journey so far?

Ogho-Oghene: It has been great. There is nothing to regret. In terms of my sports career, I have seen major improvements and in other areas of my life as well.

Akpevwe: Every relationship has its ups and downs, but the challenges have made our union better and stronger. It has been wonderful.

How do you settle quarrels?

Ogho-Oghene: We seldom quarrel, but our arguments are usually over minor issues that outsiders would think as funny. For example, we argue about why I don’t always close the wardrobe. Actually, I do forget, but I would work on that.

Akpevwe: Like he said, he always forgets to close the wardrobe. We do have some funny arguments some times, but there is usually nothing to it, it ends in that moment.

Who apologises first whenever you have disagreements?

Ogho-Oghene: I will confess that I find it sometimes hard to apologise. She is usually the first to apologise.

Akpevwe: I apologise first most times, even if he is wrong, because I can’t cope with all that tension.

How do you cope with female fans, especially when you participate in meets abroad?

Ogho-Oghene: I am careful with them because I am now a family man.

Akpevwe: I try to be understanding and accommodating. And I trust him.

What are the pet names you call each other?

Ogho-Oghene: I call her honey or sweetie.

Akpevwe: I call him sugar, honey or sweetheart.

Do you operate a joint account?

Ogho-Oghene: Yes we do.

What makes a good marriage, especially when one of the spouses is a celebrity?

Ogho-Oghene: Love, understanding and compatibility are very important.

Akpevwe: Most persons would say it is love, but for me, I think it is also more of understanding and compatibility that comes first. Couples have to understand each other, which helps the love to grow and become better.

Do you allow third parties to settle your disputes?

Ogho-Oghene: Never. If we cannot settle our disputes in marriage, then it means no one outside can. Also, if we cannot forgive each other for something any one of us did wrong unless someone else from outside tells us to, it could mean we prefer the other person’s opinion more than ours. So, we don’t allow third parties.

Akpevwe: No we have never done that, and we don’t intend doing that in the future.

Does he help with household chores?

Akpevwe: Yes, he does.

Ogho-Oghene: I even wash the plates sometimes. I made breakfast today.

How do you unwind as a couple?

Ogho-Oghene: Most times, we spend it together at home.

Akpevwe: We enjoy our conversations together a lot. We discuss everything under the sun.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]