Dad was best house party organiser — Osotimehin’s daughter
Taiwo, a daughter of a former Minister of Health and Executive Director, United Nations Population Fund and Under-Secretary-General, UN, the late Prof. Babatunde Osotimehin, tells ARUKAINO UMUKORO about her father’s legacy

Please introduce yourself.

I am Taiwo Debo-Akande, the third child of the late Prof. Babatunde Osotimehin. We are five children. The first is Babajide, a US-based medical doctor, Omolola, myself, Kehinde and Omotobilola.

How was it growing up with your father?

It was fantastic. We grew up in Ibadan, Oyo State, it was nice and quiet. Yet, the world was absolutely at our feet because he brought the world home to us via his travels, experiences, the people he came across and his work. He taught us very salient life lessons. He taught us hard work, he talked about it and we saw him show it by example. Our parents were both hard working and diligent. Definitely, the hard work paid him. All my life I have never known him to take a leave or holiday from work. He just kept working.

What are some memorable moments you shared with your father?

There are too many. He was present at my wedding. My dad was my best friend. I could talk to him about anything. Whenever there were issues, I was extremely comfortable talking to him about them and he provided the best counsel and assured me. He was there for me. After I got married, it took me about seven years to have a child, but he was there for me every step of the way. That was the last thing he did for me because I spent six months with him in the US when I went to have my baby. I would never forget that time. He was attentive to the point of asking me what flavour of popcorn and cookies I liked or felt like eating and he would go out to get them for me. When you see an accomplished man like him, one would assume that he would have airs around him and would leave such a thing to the chef or housekeeper. But no, he was very personal. He would go out and take care of his family himself. He never left that responsibility to anybody.

Your father was also respected for his humility despite his feats and position. Was his sense of humility as a result of his background?

Yes, he was humble. I would say his background had something to do with that. He came from humble, yet distinguished background. He grew up in Ijebu and he used to tell us stories of how he grew up, how many clothes he had, the opportunities that came his way, but he was determined to be exemplary and he pushed himself hard to be that. I think it was who he was. He always told us, “Always be humble.”

When he was Director-General of the National Agency for the Control of Aids, we used to travel often with him, particularly locally. At that level, he obviously had gained some recognition which, we as a family, thought was overdue because he was a hard worker. He was distinguished at many other things, particularly public health. Even when he had started to gain recognition, and one walked through the airport with him, and people recognised him, he had no airs.

What are the life values he taught you and your siblings?

He taught us to be content with whatever we had. He taught us to set goals and work towards them. One of the greatest values he taught us was that he didn’t give us fish or net, rather he taught us to weave our own nets, and he instilled in us the values and skills we required to do that. Despite his achievements, he wanted us to be who we were and to come into our own as individuals. He taught us hard work, diligence and humility and he gave us the best of family life and education so that wherever we went or whatever we wanted to do, we were the best at it. He was a family man to the core. He told us his best moments were when he was with his family. He also called it a time of fellowship as a family. He was extremely family-oriented. No matter what he was doing, he was never ever busy for us. I’ve had his colleagues say that many times he would walk out of a high-level meeting to take a call from one of his family members. Of course, he would say hello and ask how one was doing and then say he would call back, but he wanted to know that one was okay. It was important to him and he kept in touch. Many times, we have had to look at the compendium of his work, travels, and the impact he made, and compare it to the amount of attention he gave each of us in our personal lives. It is amazing how one person could balance those two things.

You talked about going on vacations and spending Christmas with him…

Yes, over the years, we had formed the habit of spending Christmas at different locations, particularly where he was going to be. Before we got married, it was easier. We could just travel to Ibadan, Abuja, United Kingdom or anywhere with him. Even after we (his children) got married, we still found a way to communicate. When he came home, he was in Lagos mostly, we would find a way to congregate; have Christmas lunch together usually and spend time during Christmas holidays with him. Then he would visit each one of us individually. He wanted to see how we were doing at home and in our private lives. He was extremely attentive.

Did he influence your choice of study or that of your siblings?

My father was a doctor, a professor of medicine. Although he wanted us to be professionals in our fields, he didn’t dictate to us what we should do in terms of one’s line of education or discipline. My brother is a doctor, but he studied law, and after two years he decided he wanted to be a doctor. My sister is an accountant. Kehinde and I are lawyers and my younger sister is a pharmacist. He didn’t push for us to study any particular course. My dad wanted us to identify what our strengths were and to be the best at whatever we decided to do. Kehinde and I, over the years, started to exhibit and pursue our creative sides as entrepreneurs and he encouraged us. He not only funded our exhibitions, he wanted to know how they went.

What are some things Nigerians don’t know about your father?

He was a very traditional man. One should not get carried away by his suit, red ties, pocket squares, pair of jeans and polo tops. He liked decency. He was time-conscious. He always had jokes to share and could make one laugh. He was extremely down- to-earth.

What was his favourite meal?

He liked eba. In the early years, he used to eat it with egusi Ijebu a lot. My mum did that very well. Later, he became a fan of ogbono soup and he would have it with either pounded yam or eba.

What was his favourite drink?

Oh, he went through the motions with that. When we were younger, he had a group of friends, some of whom later became public figures. They used to drink a lot of brandy and beer. Over the years, he evolved into wine and he liked champagne.

Can you mention some of his friends who became public figures?

In the early years, the late Dr. Segun Agagu was his friend; there is also Dr. Olu Agunloye and others. There is the one friend that continues to be there and has been fantastic through the difficult times. He is Dr. Funsho Onafowokan who lives in Ibadan. He is not a public figure, but he still was his closest friend. They kept in touch till the end.

What were his likes and dislikes?

He didn’t like sloppiness. He liked one to be up and doing. He was disciplined. If he sent one to be somewhere for eight, he needed one to be there for a quarter to eight. He thrived on integrity in whatever he did. He talked about it and instilled it in us.

How did he discipline you and your siblings in your younger days?

He used to spank us for sure. I remember one day when he warned Kehinde and I not to go out in the rain. That afternoon, we were in the backyard playing in the rain, but he had come back to the house and we didn’t know because he used to work long hours. But sometimes, he would come home unexpectedly to see how we were behaving. When we came into the house, he was seated waiting for us. Yes, we were spanked then (laughs). He was a disciplinarian. But as we grew up, he grew with us and talked to us like adults. He would hear one out, listen and explain things to us.

Was he an avid sports fan?

I wouldn’t say so, though he could sit down and talk football with some of his sons-in-law. But he used to play squash. His hobbies were travelling, experiencing new things and spending time with his family. He liked reading too.

Did he splurge on any particular accessory?

I wouldn’t say he splurged on things, but he was stylish and he dressed well. But he wasn’t one to buy a million shoes. He had a mentality that one or two good shoes were enough. He would wear the same shoes to work every day but they were quality, good shoes.

He was always on suit. Was that his favourite outfit?

Yes, he was a suits person, but in his last days, he reverted to wearing native outfits. He would wear his handwoven alari cap. He had the best suits ever. He knew how to put them (outfits) together, irrespective of what he was wearing.

He was quite a sociable person too….

Yes he was, until his work took him away. At the beginning, he was very sociable, particularly when he was in still in Ibadan. Of course, when he had more responsibilities, like in NACA et al, he became less sociable, not because he didn’t want to be, but because he was travelling a lot and trying to get a lot done. In the early days, he used to throw house parties. My father was the best house party ‘thrower.’ I learnt the art of party-throwing from him. For him, it was good food, great company and plenty of drinks. He didn’t need a huge space to do that.

Despite his busy schedule, how did he create time for his family?

When we went to school abroad for our first degree or master’s degree, he would always arrange to see us. He took us out to lunch, dinner or spent the weekend with us. We spent a lot of weekends with him even though he was busy. Kehinde and I were with him in Abuja during law school and NYSC. He would come home from work, have dinner with us and talk to us about our day. Then, when we were in law school in Abuja, he would drive down on weekends to bring us food. A lot of people used to be impressed that my dad could come to see us. Anywhere we were, he came to see us. He made out time to be with us.

Can you give instances where his name has opened doors for you?

He was the kind of person that would try in whatever way he could to push one forward as his child. Career-wise, when I started out as a lawyer, he would make calls where he could, but he also encouraged one to push through by oneself. I went out and got my first two jobs on my own but I would always check with him first. He has helped me more in my entrepreneurial life because I have met many people that he had helped them at one time or the other or they just respect him. Once they know who I am, they want to do business with me and they trust me to do the work.

What was your last conversation with him?

It was interesting. I was about to start weaning my daughter. I was telling him that I was going to buy cereal to start feeding her with. He agreed, because she was about six months old. That was the core of the last conversation. He asked about my day, how I was doing and my business.

He reportedly died while watching television. What were his last moments exactly?

My brother lives in Maryland (US) but works in New York. He had gone out, came back and he greeted him (Daddy, e ku ile). But he didn’t respond. My brother is a doctor so he tried to resuscitate him using CPR and then he called 911.

How did you feel when you first heard he had passed on in June?

I was absolutely devastated. He was my go-to-person for everything. At every juncture, he was there to direct one. We are extremely proud and in awe of all his achievements. However, what was always more important for us was having him in our lives, not only as dad, but as our friend, confidant and advisor. He was absolutely everything to us.

What are some things you miss most about him?

I am going to miss the regular conversations with him, just talking about nothing in particular (laughs). He was that simple. When one sat with him, he didn’t talk about his visit to Syria or Afghanistan, he didn’t bring his work home. When it was time for family, it was family time. I’m going to miss checking my next steps and my business decisions with him. I know my siblings are going to miss checking their careers and decisions with him too. We are going to miss sharing the moments with him. No detail was too small. He wanted to know everything.

How did he react when angry?

He actually didn’t show his anger, but one would know when he was upset because he would be quiet or tell one that he didn’t like what one did. He was a straightforward person. He also moved on from it fast once he had said it.

Your dad was passionate about public health…

Dad was a passionate person, it was in-born, I would say. He was passionate about everything. He was also an optimist.

What are some things he told you about his work and why he championed causes like maternal and child mortality, sexual and reproductive rights for women and girls, and so on?

He has four daughters and, from the beginning, he pushed us to be the best that we could be. He never allowed us to think that because we were women we couldn’t do certain things. He gave us huge, non-gender based responsibilities, even as young kids and adults. My father used to send us girls to the mechanic or to buy diesel. Kehinde was engineering-inclined, so she used to start up the generator at home and when it had issues, she would check it. Dad would keep saying, “Kehinde, what are you doing?” but he encouraged it. He encouraged us to be dynamic. He never saw us as women. His idea for the world was that women would take the world to greater heights because their contributions to life, politics, governance, economic, education and to everything, was tremendous. That was his drive, really, to give them the opportunity to be at their best. And he started it from home. The world was at our feet, he allowed us to travel, to explore and do everything. I remember him bringing a car home when I was about 20. The car needed to be fixed and he gave it to me to go fix it at the mechanic. It was during the holiday and the mechanic gave me a list of things that needed fixing. I took it back to him and he gave me the assignment. Every day, I went to the mechanic and reported back to him (dad). It took me about two or three weeks to fix the car.

What would you say is one of the most important pieces of advice he gave you?

Be content, humble and aspire to be better.

How was his relationship with your mum?

It was an amazing relationship. Their political banter used to give me a headache (laughs). They were best of friends. We couldn’t get away with playing tricks on one of them at the expense of the other. They were greatly intertwined. They got married when he was 24 and spent the last 44 years together. Prior to getting married, they had been together for about two or three years. He was her rock and she was his rock. My mother is a prayer warrior and she prayed him to success. Sometimes, he could be gone for days or weeks, because he travelled a lot, and she always held the forte in prayers.

Before he got the UNFPA job, he was minister of health between 2008 and 2010. Did he talk about some things he could have done but he unable to do due to political constraints?

He was passionate about health and wanted to move the health sector forward for sure. Maternal mortality was a huge issue for him and he wanted to make a mark in that area if given the chance. That was one of the key things he wanted to achieve. I also know that he did some things regarding accident victims getting immediate health care. He was generally passionate about health and preserving lives was a big thing for him. On the day I was to give birth, he was there with me while my vitals were being checked to ensure everything was fine. He sat in the reception as they were wheeling me into the theatre. After 15 or 20 minutes, my husband came out to tell him I had a baby girl. He waited over an hour to see me to ensure that I was okay. Also, when he was given the opportunity to serve (as Director-General of NACA) under former President Olusegun Obasanjo, he tackled the issue of HIV/AIDS with equal passion. He did well with managing his challenges. He always brought a souvenir from his trips. He got many souvenirs, we intend to make a library of his works and pictures.

What do you consider his legacy?

He left many. One, I would say it is his hard work. He worked hard. From the days he had nothing, he kept working and kept dreaming. He definitely has left a mark of excellence in pubic health care and maternal issues. I think his legacy is also culminated now in (the fact that) every girl child should have rights, opportunities and be allowed to make decisions for their lives, on who they want to be, where they want to go and what they want to become. The girl child evolves into the woman who can and should have everything to impact her community, politics, governance, economy, education and everything. He also believed in young people and liked to drive them to do better.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]