The fear of ‘pankere’ keeps my home calm — Soyobi
An entrepreneur, Mrs. Eniola Soyobi, shares her joys of motherhood with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

How old is your baby?

He is six months old. His name is Moyinoluwa Emmanuel Adejare.

When did you give birth?

I had three boys before giving birth six months ago.

What was your labour experience like?

I spent long hours labouring so I was induced. I was given the drip by 8pm on Friday and I delivered close to 3pm on Saturday.

How was the first few days after leaving the hospital?

I was extremely tired. I was, however, relieved when I gave birth. When I was pregnant, it was like a burden to me. So, giving birth is one of the joys of motherhood that I looked forward to. The freedom to live a freer life is quite interesting. Two days after giving birth, it was like I was never pregnant.

Did you find out the sex of your baby before you were delivered of him?

I did three different scans to ascertain the sex of my baby. The gender of the child was hidden in the first test result, maybe because the pregnancy was six weeks old. The second scan showed that he is a boy but to be very sure, I did the third scan. After that, I was satisfied.

Tell us more about your labour experience.

To say that it was hard is to state the obvious. But God has programmed our body in such a way that one would forget the pains after the delivery, as if nothing happened. I remember that after my first child, I did not feel like having a second child. What happened was that I was overdue for delivery. So, this time again, the doctor advised that I should be induced (so as to give birth). I gave birth a week after the expected delivery date. I was told that the baby was okay to come out.

What were your fears when the doctor said you needed to be induced?

I did not exercise any fear because I had gone through it thrice before the fourth experience.

How did you husband feel at the birth of the child?

My husband was very afraid. During my first three deliveries, he was not around. For this fourth one, he decided to witness it. Throughout the period I was in labour, he was praying, prancing around (the ward).

You have had four births. Which one was the most difficult?

I went into labour during the first and second deliveries, but I was induced for the third and fourth ones.

What part of your body changed during pregnancy that you didn’t like?

I think it was my face that I disliked most. My eyes, nose and lips grew big. My neck and legs also got swollen. Ninety-five per cent of women go through transformation after two or three four months of pregnancy, so I didn’t bother about it.

How are your baby’s elder siblings reacting to his arrival?

The baby was highly welcome. My third child is six years old while the eldest is about 16 years old. She will graduate from high school this year. The new baby was not part of our initial plan but as God permitted, he came. The older children are very happy about it and they have been very helpful on the home front. They help me to carry him. My second child is a girl and has been disturbing me for a baby sister. She was glad when I gave birth.

How did you adjust to the duties of caring for a new child after a long period?

My other children are grown ups. In that regard, there is no problem. I prepare what they eat. All of them have chores to do at home. When I had the first child, there was no one to assist me except my mother. But now, the other three children and I take care of the new baby. This makes it easier for me.

What has changed in your schedules?

I have not had a good sleep in a long time. Before now, I use to have sound sleep in the afternoon but these days, it is the time I want to sleep that the baby will start crying. At night, it is always trouble. I usually wake up three or four times to breastfeed him. Also, I can eat more than seven times in a day. My children are bothered by my eating habit which has changed drastically. They ask me, “Mummy, why do you eat so much?” I simply tell them that the baby I am breastfeeding lives on me too. One or two hours after eating, I am already looking for another thing to eat.

What were the things you avoided during pregnancy?

I avoided fatty foods. My babies’ weight used to be high. I also stayed away from beans. If I take beans during pregnancy, my babies would be overweight. I ate a lot of beans during my first pregnancy and my first child weighed 4.5kg. It was then the doctors warned me to stay away from it, as well as fatty food. I also avoided eba and fufu. My best food is bread. I stopped eating egg too to avoid constipation.

What lessons have you learnt from motherhood?

Being a mother is interesting. Looking at your children and the way they look at you, gives one fulfillment.

Which part of your delivery experience would you like to change?

One thing I detested was being induced to give birth. I was induced twice. It makes one tired. It’s painful. I prefer going into labour naturally and giving birth without being induced. The pain in natural delivery is less.

Have you ever wished to give birth overseas?

Yes, of course. My friends used to tell me about their sweet delivery experiences abroad. They told me doctors don’t ask women to “push and push” to give birth. That’s why I prefer to give birth there. All the entitlements they give the babies over there are also attractive. I wished I gave birth abroad. The attendant opportunity for citizenship and others are interesting.

What advice would you give first-time mothers?

They should have confidence and not entertain any fear. You have to be strong and determined. When I was about having my first child, my mother told me, “Don’t worry, you will just wake up and see the baby by your side.” I laughed. They were only saying that to reduce the anxiety. But giving birth is not an easy thing. I will advise a pregnant mother to have confidence.

What specific thing is peculiar to this child compared to your other children?

He is pleasant. The sleepless nights those ones gave are not as hard as his. Even if you breastfeed the other children to calm them, they will start crying again. But this one, he sleeps and stops crying after breastfeeding. I always smile. If he is not hungry, he is also playful. Others gave me a tough time.

What is the hardest part of motherhood?

Children can be annoying. They won’t obey you and are too adventurous sometimes to the detriment of their health. When you tell them to do some things or refrain from doing certain things, they will ask, “Why did mummy say I should not do this? Sometimes, you tell them, don’t make a noise, I want to sleep.” That is the time will start fighting. I bought a cane called pankere which I use to scare them any time they make such troubles. Although I don’t beat them, the fear of pankere keeps the home calm most time.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]