When your spouse is alcoholic
TOLUWANI ENIOLA writes about the best ways to cope with an alcoholic spouse

“What should be done to a man that keeps coming home drunk? I know of a woman who suffers beating each time her husband comes home drunk. Packing out is not an option, what then can be done?”

This poser by a commentator on Nairaland.com, a popular online forum, succinctly captures the problem of a 28-year-old housewife, Mrs. Ebun Oluwatuyi.

Oluwatuyi’s six-year-old marriage has almost hit the rocks because her husband, a building contractor, is alcoholic. He returns home drunk almost every day reeking of booze. His aggressive behaviour after drinking has become a worry to her.

Sharing her predicament with SUNDAY PUNCH, Oluwatuyi lamented that her husband’s drinking habit is also affecting their children because of his abusive behaviour and refusal to play his fatherly roles.

The mother of two added that her four-year-old daughter now uses foul language and sometimes beat up her two-year-old sibling, a habit which Oluwatuyi observed she must have unconsciously picked from her father.

She said, “When I met my husband, he used to be very serious with his work and he didn’t go out with friends to drink at the expense of his work. He drinks for fun at parties but not to stupor. My husband started drinking excessively when I gave birth to my first child. Since then, I have had to endure his beatings.

“When I gave birth to my second child in 2016, I told him that I had no money for food and others but he didn’t answer me because he was drunk. I had to pack my things along with my children to my parents’ house. When I later came back, he beat me with the children and asked me to return to where I came from. His parents begged him but he didn’t listen. Eventually, he opened the door after some days because I was sleeping on the balcony with my children. After this incident, he didn’t give us feeding allowance for one month but he usually came home drunk.”

The woman said she would have quit the marriage but for her children and her parents’ advice. “I have prayed and fasted but nothing has changed,” said Oluwatuyi, who added that she might consider filing for a divorce.

Oluwatuyi is not the only woman in this situation. A sixty-two year old retired nurse, identified only as Mrs. Adeyemi, lost her husband to a road accident after he drank himself to stupor.

Adeyemi said her husband started drinking when he lost his job many years ago. She has yet to forget the grief that greeted his death.

“He became idle and started drinking palm wine with some men at night for a start. His idleness grew and he started smoking. He disgraced me on many occasions and I had to bear it because of my children

“He came home late and beat his children often. Coping with my husband’s new attitude was not easy because I couldn’t go back to my parents’ house after four children. I once caught my son trying to smoke so I beat him and sent him to my parents’ house.

“At times while at work, I would be called that my husband fell or had an accident. Later, my children began to exhibit his aggressive behaviours,” Adeyemi stated.

A heavy drinker, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told our correspondent that he was trying to end the habit because of his marriage.

He said, “The addiction has consumed my finances so much that I had to devise a strategy to tackle it when I noticed that it was affecting my family.

“As part of my resolve to overcome it, I decided that my wife should be handling my finances and I also gave her my ATM. I did this to curb the rate at which I buy drinks.’’

A lecturer at the Department of Psychology, Obafemi Awolowo University, Prof. Toba Elegbeleye, said though it could appear that many men are alcoholic, many women also struggle with the addiction. He noted that alcoholism is among the causes of divorce.

“It is a multi-faceted phenomenon. For instance, someone who indulges in alcohol is driven to it by certain reasons. These reasons may include the fact that he has some deep-seated problems he is trying to solve. The wife may be a cause of the problem; it may happen that his expectations are not met in marriage. Many factors can be the cause of alcohol consumption.

“Also, some people get drunk and beat up their wives. Some are drunk and they neglect their duties. For women who don’t have jobs, children of such families are the worst hit by it. It affects children born into such homes terribly; that the father is drunk will definitely take away a large chunk of his responsibilities towards the children. It is not a good sight for children to behold when they are at a tender age because they are impressionable at that early childhood years.

“Children want to practise what they see. We call it vicarious modeling. If their father speaks in one way, they will note that.”

Commenting on the issue, a general medical practitioner, Dr. Jide Aremo, noted that excessive intake of alcohol has a number of negative effects on the body.

“In the central nervous system, the short-term effects are slurred speech, lack of coordination, loss of consciousness. Circulatory system effects include high blood pressure, arrhythmias, heart failure and anemia (secondary to poor vitamin absorption),” he said.

Aremo said it could be more devastating, especially for pregnant women who enjoy the addiction.

He added, “Alcohol is known to cross the blood brain barrier and thus can affect the developing brain of the foetus. The risk of this syndrome is higher in the early stage of pregnancy when most times the woman does not know she is pregnant.

“Prominent features of foetal alcohol syndrome include microcephaly (small sized head), low-birth weight, heart defects and delayed developmental milestones. Later in life, these children may have attention deficits, memory deficits and stunted social development. FAS is 100 per cent preventable, by avoiding alcohol.”

On ways to tackle the problem, Elegbeleye observed that although the enforcement of the law against domestic violence was critical in protecting spousal abuse, it would not do much to reduce the prevalence of the habit.

The professor of psychology urged couples battling the challenge to embrace counselling. According to him, while many women have adopted the “ignore” technique, it may not work for others.

He said, “The only thing that can work is strong counselling and help. I cannot encourage alcoholics to form themselves into a group. We need to create more help homes where people who indulge in it can get help through psychotherapists and counsellors.’’

Another psychologist and lecturer at the University of Lagos, Prof. Oni Fagbohungbe, said the best solution is for an alcoholic to seek the assistance of a clinical psychologist, who can assist him or her to end the habit.

For spouses whose partners are alcoholics, the lecturer advised them to study the attitude of their partners when under the influence of booze in order to contain it.

The psychologist noted that the addiction is like a vicious circle because studies have shown that children subconsciously pick up abusive behaviours from their alcoholic parents and “learn what they live later in life.”

He added, “If it is domestic violence the man exhibits after drinking, the spouse should engage in avoidance behaviour. Little things that provoke the beating or howling should be avoided. When a spouse drinks and shouts, the partner should not respond. Keep quiet; if that will stifle the aggressive behaviour.

“If there is no sign the addiction, beatings or other forms of abuse will subside after patience, counselling and maybe prayers, then, quitting is better. Some of the victims become sentimental with the problem because they don’t want to leave their children to suffer but the beating increases. Many women and some men have been killed by such partners. If you stay in such a marriage because of your children, who will take care of them if your alcoholic husband kills you?”

Famous quote

Every form of addiction is bad, no matter whether the narcotic be alcohol or morphine or idealism – A Swiss psychiatrist, Carl Jung

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]