I wish I had enough money when my kids were schooling — Sani
A former National Publicity Secretary of the Arewa Consultative Forum, Mr. Anthony Sani, tells ARUKAINO UMUKORO about his life as a father

What does fatherhood mean to you?

There is nothing spectacular about being a father beyond the fact that just as my father gave birth to me and brought me up to face the world and be useful to myself and to others, I am expected to give birth to others and bring them up. In bringing my children up, I must ensure that they become useful to themselves and to society.

What are the most important lessons you have learnt from your experiences as a father?

The most important lessons I learnt as a father is to be just and fair to all members of my family. Since the children did not beg me to bring them into this world, it behoves me to train them, not only in sending them to school to learn facts, but to learn how to imagine and reason. More so, they needed to understand that they would face challenges in life and would necessarily need to work hard and overcome them on their own when their father might not be there for them anymore. I told them to note that the training in the family is the same like those of soldiers, after which they would face the enemies in the battlefield on their own without the person who had trained them. In the same vein, family members would face the world on their own without the father at some point.

At what age did you become a father and how would you describe that first experience of fatherhood?

I married at the age of about 28 and my wife gave birth to our first born, who is a female, when I was about 30 years old. As a pharmacist working in a hospital setting, it was not hard for me to get the attention of doctors when my wife went into labour. I was naturally excited when our first daughter was born safely in then Plateau hospital, under the watch of one Dr. Araf, who is late now.

How did becoming a father change your perspective about life?

Being a father came with its responsibility of taking care of the children who did not beg me to bring them into this world like I earlier said. My perspective of life necessarily changed in order to accommodate the additional responsibility of bringing up the children and the family. I said additional responsibilities because the mother of my children is someone else’s daughter whom I have brought under my care.

What were the major challenges of fatherhood for you?

The major challenges of fatherhood for me were in raising a good family, especially the children. As a father, one is regarded as the head of the family irrespective of one’s socio-economic status. My children needed to know that, because when Jesus Christ enjoined the father to be the head of the family, the wife and the children must defer to him. He was not ignorant of the possibility of the wife being more intelligent, wise, educated and, of course, being more successful economically than the father. But He gave such injunction in the interest of smooth management of the family. To do otherwise would not augur well for the family.

Another challenge was to ensure that my family members were supportive of each other in life struggles, with courage and in hope, considering the fact that life without hope is meaningless and the fact that God endows individuals differently. More so, that what one gives to others he would get back in abundance.

How much did your father shape your views about fatherhood and how did you apply what you learnt from him when you became a parent?

I grew up with my father in a rural setting. He was a farmer and herbalist who made us to help him in the farm. We also followed him to the bush to fetch herbs for his occupation. That kind of life came with cooperative attitudes needed for the success of the farm and the occupation of traditional medicine. This kind of spirit has informed my attitude to life, that unless we support and complement each other, life could be more difficult. That is why till date, my children and their cousins have family meetings yearly in the village where they take stock of what has taken place over the past year, assess progress against plans and set new targets for the coming year.

What is your advice to fathers-to-be, especially in this period of economic challenges in the country?

Prospective fathers must come to terms with the reality that there is ebb and flow to life. Once they know that life has its own challenges, they are most likely to be in proper frame of mind to face the challenges of fatherhood.

How do you balance being a father, politician and public official?

I did what most responsible fathers in my situation would do. All a father need do is to plan and divide his time among the variegated responsibilities in such manner that no any aspect is unduly short- changed. That is what is expected from anybody who is responsible to himself, to the family and to society. Those fathers who are unable to do so would have problems later on.

Can you share a memorable experience you had with your children?

I remember an instance when I told my children to make do with a limited variety of food in the house because of paucity of funds at the time. But because I was still able to give them school fees, they were surprised. They still remind me till date about the kind of wisdom which made me to place premium on their education over what they ate at home. Today, they are happy that I made such decision.

What were some of the challenges you faced as a father and how did you handle them?

Because of my physical challenge of having polio on one of my legs from infancy, I had limited opportunities compared to my peers because there were limits to what I could study as a profession. For example, I could not study professional courses like medicine, engineering and anything that demanded rigorous application of brawn. Yet, I was determined that if a former US President Franklin Roosevelt – who used a wheelchair – could forever prove there are no barriers to a determined spirit, I could as well get educated as a way of reducing my limitations. I therefore chose to study pharmacy, not because of interest, but because it does not involve much application of physical strength compared to a doctor who might be forced to run during emergency to save a patient or an engineer who might be forced to climb ladders. Luckily, for me after graduation, I got employment as pharmacist with then Plateau State Government and rose through the ranks in a very short time. The state government then gave me political appointment, which did not last because the regime was truncated in a very short time by a military coup.

It was after the coup, when I was out of job and needed money to help my wife improve her pharmacy shop, that my fatherhood was truly challenged. I had to tell my family to take it easy because whatever challenges one encounters in the course of mechanism of community, living has an end. With time, we were able to overcome the challenges which are now history.

Have you ever changed the diapers of any of your children or cooked a meal for them?

I was not very helpful to my spouse when it comes to domestic chores due to my physical challenge.

Do you think fathers should play more significant roles in raising their kids rather than leaving it solely to the woman, especially in the African setting where they are expected to only provide for the family?

The African tradition was predicated on the agrarian and hunting occupation where men were the sole bread winners. But now that education and occupation have changed the nature of relationship between husband and wife; there are many families where both spouses are working class and, therefore, bread winners, while some are in business. For example, my wife and I are pharmacists. In such a situation, the responsibility of raising the children was on the two of us and not a matter for the father alone.

What is the most important advice you have given your children in terms of relationships?

I told them that they should not look down on anybody, no matter the circumstance. This is because no condition is permanent. They should go by Jesus’ injunction that the father is the head of the family. This injunction makes for good management practices and a healthy family. They should also do to others as they would want others do to them.

How did you discipline your children?

I used counselling more than stick and carrot.

What do you wish you had done more while raising your children?

Perhaps, if my economic profile was better than what it was when my children were schooling, their schooling would have been made easier for them than what they went through. Although in a way, the discipline that came with a low budget turned out to be very helpful in moulding the content of their character for the purpose of facing challenges. They do not regret what they went through in the process of acquiring education.

How has your wife supported you in being a good father?

My wife has been very supportive, especially when the military coup rendered me jobless for some time.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]