Mum used a long cane, atori, to correct my five brothers and I — Iyalode Alaba Lawson’s son
Akinola is the first son of Iyalode of Egbaland, Chief Alaba Lawson. He talks about her mother with ARUKAINO UMUKORO

Please introduce yourself.

My name is Akinola Lawson. I am the first child of the six children of Iyalode Alaba Lawson. I studied English Linguistics at the University of Jos, Plateau State and I have a master’s degree in International Law and Diplomacy from the University of Lagos. I am currently the Special Adviser on Agriculture to the Governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun. I am married with children.

Your mother became the first female president of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture. What kind of mother is she?

First and foremost, she is a mother, before she became Iyalode or the first female president of NACCIMA. Maybe because she is my mother, I see her as one before anything else. I recall when I was in the university. There was a day I was running low on cash. Early the next day, my mum took a flight from Lagos to Jos to see me despite the fact that she had braved an armed robbery attack previously. My mum is always particular about her children. She is a woman of many parts; she can be quite spontaneous sometimes. She is also selfless. Throughout the time I was in the UNIJOS, I always took a flight to school. But at a time, there was an increase in the cost of the flight ticket and when I told her that I wouldn’t mind going to Jos by rail, she gave me a quizzical look. She ensured I got the tickets. As a mother, she is very principled. But she is also warm, loving and caring.

How was growing up?

It was interesting. I remember during my childhood I was attending one of the schools she was teaching. She would always buy me food after she had finished her class sessions and I always looked forward to her meal. One thing about her is that she also does not forget her pupils, no matter how old the pupil has become. I can’t recall the names of any of her student at the moment though.

Also, I remember an incident in a secondary school; Comprehensive High School, Aiyetoro, when most of my belongings were stolen or lost. I came home one day without my uniform, house wear and a lot of other things I had lost. When she opened my suitcase, it was virtually empty and she was very angry. What she did afterwards was to write my name in large letters on my clothes. I had ‘Akinola Lawson’ branded on the front and back of my clothes, shoes and everything. It was very embarrassing at first, but it made it difficult for anyone to steal my clothing. I became a walking signboard; it was very funny but it kept me out of trouble. Sometimes, in secondary school, one’s peers could want to be sneaky or up to tricks, but because of my signboard, my friends would refuse me to join them.

Your mum owns a group of schools. How does she feel about the state of education in the country?

She believes it can get better, but she wants government to be more involved because the private schools are doing a lot more than the government-owned ones now.

Did she influence your choice of study or career path?

No she didn’t impose anything on us. My mum believes one should do what one is best suited for or chooses to do, and she believes that one should be excellent at whatever one does. When we were much younger, she tutored us at home in English and Maths.

How did she discipline you and your siblings whenever anyone erred?

She didn’t spare the rod at all. She is a disciplinarian. We are all boys; it is no joke to raise six boys. Also, my mum is gifted with a loud voice. Whenever she speaks, you will hear her clearly. She used to say, “I am first and foremost a teacher.” Her stare alone was enough to make you do the right thing. She used this long cane called ‘atori’ to correct us. We (the children) slept together in a room, so if one decided to run from her punishment to the other side of the room, the atori was still long enough to reach the other end.

What are some things you would also like to share about your mum’s personality?

She is a very good driver. When I was young, I used to prefer my mum driving than my dad, because she usually drove really fast. I met someone some time ago who told me he tried to catch up with my mum’s car along the Badagry Expressway, but he couldn’t despite driving fast. She didn’t know it was him, but he said he couldn’t keep pace with her driving. Even now she still finds time to cook for us. Whenever I go to visit her, she still cooks for me, even though sometimes I don’t let my wife know (laughs). But she does know, you know women are very intuitive. My mother is quite intuitive too. She knows when something is wrong.

How did she create time for her family despite her busy schedules?

She always found time to attend to us (her children) personally no matter how busy she was. She made a lot of sacrifices for us. If, for instance, one needed a car to move around, she would give out hers while she boarded public transport.

On most vacations, she usually took us to see our grandmother in Lagos. We always looked forward to that. On a few other occasions, she took us on vacation to the United Kingdom. She also took us out to visit a lot of interesting places in Nigeria. She does things in a big way. I remember during one of our trips to the UK, she took me, my siblings, her friend’s daughter and some other people along. I remember the flight where we had a stopover in Belgium and the airline had to wait for us because we were about 10.

What is her favourite meal?

Interestingly, I don’t think she has a favourite. She likes moin moin and pap because my grandmother made them. In fact, when she was younger, my mum used to hawk pap on a tray for her mum (my grandmother) around Abeokuta.

One would think with her influence and status today, she was born into a wealthy family….

My mum was not born into wealth; she came from a humble family background. She used to fetch firewood along Oke Mosan in Abeokuta with her elder brother and would sell them before she went to school. She said she used to always mend her school uniform because she couldn’t afford to buy a new one.

She is regarded as one of the major influencers and power brokers in the commerce and industry sector in Nigeria. How was she able to rise to such enviable position in society?

My mum is an optimist and she does not take no for an answer. If she sets her mind on something, she goes out to achieve it. When we were much younger, I and my brothers were trying to start the car one morning and it refused to start. There was a newspaper vendor around the area who joined us to help push the car. When my mum came and saw us, she asked what was wrong and joined us to push the car. In that instant, the car started. She has such strength and energy. I don’t know where the vendor is today, but any time he saw us then, he would ask about my mother. He used to say, “she is powerful.” If one is trying to do something and is faced with difficulty, no matter what it is, the day she gets to know, that thing is as good as solved.

At her recent investiture, the Ogun State governor, in a documentary, called her ‘an elephant that will crush anything that stands in her way.’ I remember baba, former president Olusegun Obasanjo, saying that one doesn’t stand in the way of my mum. They have a cordial relationship and have known each other for about 40 years. I think it is the way God has made her. She has a lot of energy and once she believes in a cause, she follows it through to the end and that has helped her a lot.

Who are her mentors?

One of her mentors I know is my late uncle, Chief Adeyemi Lawson, my father’s elder brother. She also talks about her late grandmother in Lagos, whom she described as hardworking.

Would you say she learnt her business acumen from a young age?

Yes, but it is not just a question of learning. I think she also inherited some traits. Her great grandfather, Aderupoko was a great trader in those days. Literally, what Aderupoko means is ‘killing the vehicle with too much load.’ Even before she started the school, my mother has always been in the business of trading. She would buy malt, spent grain from breweries and sell it to people. Apart from the fact that she is a teacher, she has always been industrious, doing one thing or the other in the world of commerce. She is extremely hard working like her parents, my grandparents. Her father headed the electric unit in Abeokuta then and she always spoke about the dedication he put into his work. My grandfather was knighted by the queen.

What are the values you have learnt from her?

I have learnt how to see life in a positive way no matter what it throws at one. There is always light at the end of the tunnel and every cloud has a silver lining. I also learnt the value of patience and hard work from her. One won’t value what one does not work hard for. There is joy in hard work.

What does your mum say about women getting into leadership positions in the public and private sectors?

She is happy about that and wants more women to rise into prominence. She is also the head of NAWOG, NACCIMA’s women organisation, and they have achieved many things. She also believes that women contribute a lot to the economy and the home front. She cherishes womanhood a lot and respects women. She doesn’t like any woman being persecuted in any form. She cannot stand it and would do anything to ensure justice is done.

Did she desire a female child to follow her in her footsteps?

Maybe at one time she did, but not anymore. I think she has since accepted it and moved on. But then, her sons have started giving her daughters and granddaughters, so she can’t complain.

What’s her favourite drink?

I don’t think she has one. I’m not sure.

How was her relationship with your father?

My father is late now. They got divorced after some time. But they had a good relationship even after that; when my father was about to die, she came back to Abeokuta and she was the one who took care of him until he died. She still takes care of him today by ensuring that his graveside is always maintained and clean. Recently, she renovated the place.

How did she feel when she was made the first female president of NACCIMA?

It was something she had long looked forward to. The reality is that she should have become its president a long time ago, but some things happened along the way. She always quoted Rudyard Kipling’s poem, “If”, which is one of her favourites. One of her favourite lines in the poem reads, “If you can wait and never be tired of waiting.” She waited and eventually, it paid off. She feels fulfilled about it.

What is her life’s philosophy?

It is to help whom you can help. She also believes in justice a great deal.

How has her name opened doors for you and your siblings?

It has opened many doors for us in ways we didn’t expect. I have met several people in the course of my work who tell me that my mum helped them in one way or the other. Sometimes, they are people I don’t even know, but they recognise me by my surname. I have also met a lot of prominent people in society through her. I also met the former president Obasanjo, through her.

What are her likes and dislikes?

She likes hard work, people who are straightforward and believe in justice. She likes giving; philanthropy is part of her life. She dislikes laziness and arrogance.

How does she unwind?

She likes listening to music and spending time with her family and grandchildren.

Does she like any sport?

She likes watching football; Nigerian national team football in particular. Then she said she used to go on a fast to pray for the Nigerian team to win matches. She is quite religious.

What are some things Nigerians may not know about your mum?

A lot of people see her as being a hard woman, but she is only principled. She is very soft-hearted, although she can be temperamental; I guess that happens to everybody. She is easy to relate with. She is also a no-nonsense person. When some people fret about stepping on people’s toes, once she believes it is the right thing to do, she won’t think twice about it. Sometimes when I tell her that she shouldn’t be vocal about some things or try to be diplomatic about it, she would ask me why she should do so. She would say she has to speak her mind.

How does she react to criticisms?

She reacts in different ways. Sometimes, she doesn’t budge and would keep quiet. When it comes to public criticism, because she believes in what she is doing, she is not bothered. But it depends on the criticism and how constructive it is. Sometimes, even if she disagrees on a perspective to an issue, she would still listen and consider it. She can be quite spontaneous.

What does she think about the state of the economy?

Like I said, she is an optimist and she believes the government is on the right path. She believes people should work hard, they should not be dishonest and look for shortcuts. She believes we should not compromise our integrity.

Do you think she would go into politics in the near future?

No, I don’t think so. She says it the way it is no matter whose axe is gored. But she has a way with the grass-roots and has a good relationship with them. She wasn’t born into a rich family. So, any opportunity she gets to help, she does not hesitate to do so. I don’t think politics is her thing. She is not a card-carrying member of any political party.

How does she react when she is angry?

She raises her voice.

How sociable is she?

She is very social. She attends parties. She joined the rotary club and is the matron of one. She has a close relationship with the grass-roots and with the traders. She is quite versatile. She can come from one meeting with corporate businessmen and the next minute she is in another one with traders; and she would still fit perfectly into both.

What is her favourite outfit?

I don’t think she has one. She believes whatever one does should be done well, that include one’s outfit.

Who are some of her closest friends?

I know of the lady lawyer called Orakusi. There is also Otunba Adekunle Ojoro, Chief Bade Ojora, the Ojora and Oniru families, and others.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]