I didn’t have the heart to watch my wife give birth — Yerima
Award-winning playwright, theatre director and Head, Dramatic Arts department, Redeemer’s University, Prof. Ahmed Yerima, talks about his fatherhood journey with GBENGA ADENIJI

How would you define fatherhood?

Fatherhood means a dependable friend of children that is created by God to guide the younger ones towards the realisation of their goals in life.

When did you become a father?

I became a father at a young age from my point of view. I was 25 years. I had my first child then. I was a PhD student in England at the time. It was an exciting experience because I saw a little me in him. It was nice to know that he was like me; I called him my paddy because he was like my little doll that I could play with. But this time, the ‘doll’ was alive.

Did you witness your wife put to bed?

I didn’t have the heart to watch it. I would have fainted.

Was the child gender what you desired all along?

Interestingly, I wanted a girl. I had even named her. In England, they believe pink is for baby girls. So, I had bought pink cottons, bed sheets and made everything in the house pink. I was ready for the baby. We did a scan and because the baby bent, they didn’t see that the baby was a boy. Even the day the baby was born, I was asking the doctor how my wife and the baby girl were doing. They told me that the baby was a he and not a she. What I did was that instead of looking for a baby girl that I had expected, I turned the baby boy into a friend.

Did you nurse any fears prior to your becoming a father?

Yes, because my wife and I were both students in England at the time, I wondered how we would cope. We were strangers there. My worry was how to get funds to take care of my family. I had to take up a part-time job in the school and luckily, our parents were helpful. Basically, I think it was about survival and that was why we didn’t try to have a second child in England. He was already a handful and eating deep into our little pocket money. That was the only fear I nursed, trying to provide the best for my son.

Your father was a policeman. What values did you learn from him that helped you to face the future?

My father, Musa, was a good friend of mine. Towards the end of his life, he told me that I was his best friend because I was the only one that would make him laugh. He stopped beating me at age 10 and that was when he said I was a man. He said if I offended him, I should say I was sorry and not repeat the act.

As a little boy, I tested the new agreement and he kept to it till he died. That made me to trust and love him more. There was a word he used which I use for my children and grandchildren. He was never afraid to use the word, ‘Love.’ He would say, ‘I love you my son.’ That made me very responsible but he was also very strict. He blended so well with us that we were the ones who felt we owed him a responsibility not to be bad children.

Like your father, are you also strict on your children?

Yes, I am strict but at the same time, I am a loving father I think.

How do you correct them when they misbehave?

They do not think about misbehaving around me. I do not use the cane to discipline my kids. I cannot remember the last time I got angry with them. I let them realise certain things first with myself behaving in such a way that when they see that I don’t drink, smoke or do certain things the society regards as bad, they will also fall in line. I set a good example like my father did for them to learn from. Children, when they see those things, though they may be tiresome to them, they will conform. It becomes a pattern. They know that they cannot do some things because their father will not like it and thus it becomes an unwritten law. I tell myself that I am the example and that if I set a good example, I do not have to preach much. I also pushed the training my father gave me on the responsibility of being of good behaviour, being humble, respectful and gentle to them. They know that as a loving father, they can get away with lots of things but also that there are times when I have to draw the line. That has kind of kept a balance between my children and me.

How do you reward their good deeds?

I spoil them. I ensure that within my capability they are at par with their peers. This is because one of the ways one can lose one’s children is to make them feel inadequate when they are with their peers. Peer pressure leads to bad behaviour. They copy attitudes that are difficult to explain through this. But providing for one’s kids should be done within one’s means. I am not saying you should rob a bank because you want your children to be happy. If it is within your means, provide certain amenities for them and let them understand that they are basic things. Sometimes, when I discuss with my children, those close to me, even my wife, feel I have given them much information. But when they have this information, they begin to reason with you. The intelligent quotient of children these days is high and they draw up their conclusions. If they make negative conclusions, you are in trouble. You must also guide them on why you made certain decisions and it will make it easy for them to make their decisions when it is time.

Do you cook for your family?

Sometimes I do.

What do they say about your cooking?

It is always fun. I remember the first time I cooked for my daughter, she was almost crying and telling me to leave the kitchen. I told her to allow me to cook. When I finished cooking the egusi soup, she and other members of the family enjoyed it.

Did she tell you she enjoyed it or you felt she did?

Oh yes she did. Now, I am being asked when next I would cook. I told them that I was a bachelor and was not born married. I had to learn how to cook. They could not believe daddy could cook. They know that I can cook now. I used to be a good cook.

Your father wanted you to study law, why did you choose dramatic arts?

I think it was fate and destiny that chose dramatic arts for me. I actually gained admission to the then University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University) to study law. The university had over admitted students and I discovered that I had no place to go to. It was a long story. What Dr. Yemi Ogunbiyi did when he found me dejected while unable to secure admission to the law faculty was to ask me if I could wait for Prof. Wole Soyinka, who was then the new head of the Dramatic Arts department. That was what happened and then the good story of my life began (laughs).

How did your father feel that you didn’t eventually study law?

He was disappointed initially but later felt probably there was hope in the course when in 1988 Prof. Soyinka was taking us to the US on a performance tour. He said we must be joking to believe we would go to the US to perform drama. When I came back and gave him some things I bought, he was impressed. Also, after returning from England and I was given a big, beautiful colonial house in Ahmadu Bello University, he came and when he saw the house, he said, ‘for studying drama you got this? There must be something good in this drama.’’

How do you appreciate your wife?

I do the little I can afford. She is godly, selfless, caring and not demanding. She is like the iron lady of the family. She brings the family together. All these attributes make her a good example to copy for our children and myself. I am lucky I have a friend as wife. My problem is that I do not like giving gifts on birthdays or on occasions. I give her surprise gifts like buying her a dress, perfumes or picking few things for her. That is what she loves and I get pleasant “Thank you” from her when I do these things.

Is there anything you desire to do differently as a father?

No, I have enjoyed being a father. I tried to build confidence in my children and make them proud of me within the limits of the blessings of God. I have encouraged and guided them to face their lives and sometimes nudged them by being honest to them. Like, “Dear son, I did this and failed. Do not make the same mistake.” When people say children do not know anything, I do not agree because children learn a lot.

You are an accomplished playwright. Is any of your children a writer?

That is one thing I did not encourage in them. I didn’t want them to be writers. I have always believed that not every of my children will be as lucky as I am in that regard. God has been very kind to me and I have been lucky. I encouraged them to pursue professions where they would be independent because I don’t like the word “freelance.’ I don’t want them to be ‘freelance artist.’ It is always difficult. They can be writers later if they want to. I know that some of my children have creative talents which they took from me. One of them, a lady, is a good painter. My first son also writes. What I do for them is to make sure that they are comfortable with their chosen professions. Then, writing becomes a hobby they can develop and turn into a profession later.

You have over 25 plays which included Tafida, Hard Ground and The Trials of Oba Ovonramwen. How do you combine your writing, teaching engagements and fatherly roles?

I blend all. It is interesting. My wife and kids are the first to read my works. They are the ones I bounce my ideas of the plays on as I look for the logic of the plays. As I grow older, they become my secretary and typist. They ask me if they can help me to type. I dictate and they type. They also criticise the play and advise me sort of. They are all part of my creative process. If I am going for lectures, discussions and presentations, I like to take my last son with me. That way, he is able to appreciate his father more and understand why the noise about my writing. He sees how seriously the people take the funny scribbling we do at home and he says, “Well done daddy.’’ I want them to be proud of me by seeing an honest father and a creative mind at work.

As a writer-lecturer, how have you been able to impact positively on your students to be responsible citizens?

It is interesting that my students in Redeemers’ University call me “Daddy Prof.” I love that title more than my professorship title. For students that I am not their biological father to so call me, it shows the love they have for me. They do not even put ‘Prof’ first, it is ‘Daddy’ that comes first. I also find their parents wanting to know the lecturer who their kids talk so much about and who has such influence on their children. My students have good discussions with me. I have a small fridge in my office and some of them can open it and take a coke and say, “Yes, this is what daddy has for me.’’ To me, it shows a great sign of responsibility. They also ask good questions when students from other schools, who are using any of my works for their master’s or PhD thesis, come to see me. There was a day one of them asked me if I was afraid of dying. I answered that not anymore because I know that a lot of people would mourn me. That sounds morbid no doubt. While I clocked 60 on May 8, there were over 487 messages on my Facebook page from students I taught in the 80s at ABU and the University of Lagos. The messages gave me a kind of gratification. Through my stories, I believe I have touched lives that I have yet met.

What challenges do you think students face which are traceable to their homes?

Most parents are busy looking for money as the challenges of success are much. Most people also send their kids to private varsities knowing these faith-based schools will take care of them. What we then have are well brought up, financially satisfied but emotionally unstable students. Some have family issues and want someone who they can talk to. But the parents are not there. These are some of things I have noticed in students in recent times as a lecturer. The solutions are not in schools really. The school only provides academic knowledge and not emotional knowledge but the parents are pushing the responsibility to the schools. That is why as a teacher, I try to go the extra mile. Though it takes a lot from me, it is rewarding when one sees his students succeed in life.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]