Signs of an imminent break up
Not all relationships lead to marriage. If your partner is exhibiting any of these behaviours, then it is unlikely that he/she is still interested in the relationship and wants to break up with you, writes JOY MARCUS

Avoidance

Some people find it difficult to tell their partner they want to breakup. Instead, they choose to avoid them rather than being direct and honest about their feelings. If your partner is suddenly cancelling all your plans or changing the conversation whenever a serious topic comes up, they may want out but don’t know how to tell you.

Less communication

The loss of communication doesn’t begin right away, but if your partner is trying to break up with you, he/she will definitely start reducing the amount of times they communicate with you on a daily or weekly basis.They will stop texting you every morning or at night and would not call you for days except you call them. When this happens and the communication between you two is slowly fading away, he/she may be plotting a way out of the relationship.

Not much is said in person

At the beginning of your relationship, conversations used to be interesting, meaningful, and timeless, and they just flowed. You two even used to tease each other and crack jokes that would make you both laugh. However, things have changed and now talking in person is dry and forced. When conversations become boring and useless, it’s a big red flag that something is going wrong.

They don’t include you in their future plans

One of the natural and most exciting part of being involved with someone is planning the future together.It’s true that the future can be scary, but if you and your partner used to spend hours planning your lives together, from marriage to having kids and travelling, and suddenly your partner starts shunning these conversations, then it may be time to ask why.

They stop making efforts

Remember those early days when both of you used to come up with romantic and interesting things to do together? Look back at those times you giggled on your way to the cinema, taking long walks, or having picnics on the beach? If you have stopped bothering to make arrangements that will keep the passion alive, this is an indication that you no longer fancy the relationship.

Becoming secretive

The basis of any successful relationship is trust and openness. This means sharing every detail no matter how intimate with no lies, secrets or skeletons. When trusting your partner becomes a challenge and you don’t feel any guilt hiding secrets, it’s evident that the relationship is heading for the rocks.

You don’t feel close to each other

At one point in time you felt connected on a variety of levels, you two were inseparable and loved being around each other and how you made yourselves feel. But now you feel the complete opposite of how you used to. You don’t feel as loved or cared for and your partner doesn’t make any efforts to remedy it.

Frequent quarrels

Initially, you used to see your little fights as humorous and funny that you both laugh off. But now, the slightest word from your partner irritates you and eventually leads to argument.Both of you could become resentful and bitter towards each other. The relationship has become toxic as this stage and things could get real ugly if you don’t talk about the problem.

Becoming too independent

Being independent is good but not when it makes your partner feel less important to you. There were times you wanted to spend every single waking minute with your partner just to have more time together. But all you want to do now is go out with your friends or even work late, in other not to spend time together than is absolutely necessary. This means you have started to withdraw, now is the time to confront the future.

He/she doesn’t make any promises or commitments

Usually, you both plan your weekends together and small dates here and there. But now your partner doesn’t want to commit to anything and instead says “we’ll see,” “maybe,” “time will tell.” This is an obvious sign that your partner does not have any plans to commit to something that involves you. He/she does not want to spend more time together in a relationship that he/she doesn’t want.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]