I craved for akara made with firewood while pregnant — Mum of two boys
An entrepreneur, Mrs. Tolulope Habib, tells ARUKAINO UMUKORO about her experiences as a mother

Please tell us about yourself.

I am a wife and mother of three beautiful children. I run my own outfit, The Young Readers Library. It’s a platform created to provide access to great books and inspire children to read for fun, we organise book clubs and competitions, sell educational materials and develop skills that will equip children to be better adults. The library also teaches the use and benefits of journaling. I have designed three journals that are presently in use at the library and I’m in the process of developing more journals.

Describe your life as a mum in three words.

Fun, inspiring and multi-dimensional.

How were the first few days for you after you were delivered of your baby?

Wow! It was a relief for me that I didn’t have to push a big tummy about again and I felt lighter. I rested as much as I could. My husband and my mum were with me and helped out a lot with the baby and the older children. We had to plan for the baby’s christening and they helped out a great deal. For me, the first few days were majorly for resting.

Although this is not your first child, what has been the hardest thing about being a mother again?

I had just started a new business when I took in. The hardest part of being a mum again was combining my role as a mother and ensuring my business keeps running and growing. I also have older kids, so I had to give enough to them, my husband, and the new baby, while I continue with my work.

What are some things you have observed in taking care of a newborn?

I have discovered that each child is different.

What changes have you noticed now that you have a new baby?

My older kids are in school. They can express and feed themselves. When they go to school, I’m able to get as many things as possible done. With the new baby, I now have to arrange my life in a way that favours her. I am doing exclusive breastfeeding, so she basically she has to go everywhere with me. I have to ensure she is well fed and relaxed before I start a journey or go for presentations. The free time I had before now has to be shared.

When was your daughter born?

She was born on January 7, 2017. Her name is Oluwatimisire Elizabeth. My husband chose the names.

What kind of food did you crave for during your pregnancy?

I craved for akara (bean cake), especially the one prepared with firewood. I would wake up early in the morning wanting to eat akara. My husband would have to go out and queue to buy it.

What are the things you would change about your labour experience if you could?

If I would change anything, I would use epidural (anaesthetic) early. I used epidural during my recent delivery, unlike the first and second pregnancy. This made the birthing experience pain-free. I initially did not want to use epidural because I was forming ‘super woman.’ At 7cm, I decided to try the epidural to see how it was and it was lovely. I didn’t push for long and delivered without any tear or stitch. However, during my first and second delivery, I was cut and stitched.

How did your husband help you before, and after you put to bed?

He was really helpful. As I said earlier, I run a children’s library and at the time I got pregnant, the business had just started. I had to be there all the time and combine my duties as a wife and mother. There were times I got home really tired and my husband would help with the cooking and taking care of the older children. He was with me throughout labour and this helped to calm me. After delivery, he did not relent. He would help out with my older kids so I could get some rest.

How much should husbands be involved in helping their pregnant wives?

Husbands need to be very involved. Each woman reacts differently during pregnancy. Based on the need of the wife, the husband should be ready to step in and support.

Can you describe your labour experience?

It was fast. I arrived at the hospital at 6cm, and I was not sure I was in active labour. At 7cm I asked for an epidural. By the time they were done I was already at 9.5cm and before long, I pushed out the baby smiling.

Did you prepare for labour and delivery with books and birth videos?

I read a book title “The Supernatural Childbirth.” It helped me build my faith level and minimise fear. It’s a good read for any woman.

How do you balance motherhood and your career?

Taking care of three children with the oldest being five years old and running my business, is only by the grace of God. I have learnt that it is important to build people and delegate some duties as no one can do it all.

What part of your body changed during pregnancy that you didn’t like?

My tummy.

Some new mothers are usually overprotective of their children. Was that your case?

I am a mother hen. I am very hands-on. I delegate other duties, but not my children, and I am lucky to be doing a business that gives me the opportunity to be around my children.

What does your daughter do that makes you happy to be a mother?

The way she smiles. No matter how stressed out I am, once I see her smile, it softens my heart and gives me joy.

What would be your advice to a first-time mother?

They need to rest as much as possible. I broke down recently because I was trying to form being a ‘super mum’ and not making out time to rest. It is essential for new mothers to take time to relax.

Do you plan to save money for your children’s future?

Yes, I would save for their education and start-ups, should any of them decide to start a business in the future.

What experiences would you want to create for your child?

I would teach them to try new skills and prepare them with the necessary knowledge to compete globally and live a life of purpose.

Did you know the gender of your baby beforehand and how did you feel about it?

Yes I did, and I was happy because I wanted to have a girl.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]