Surviving abusive marriages
GBENGA ADENIJI writes about the solutions to abusive relationships

Thirty-five-year old seamstress and caterer identified only as Mrs. Abiodun dreads going home after closing her shop every day. The reason is not far-fetched.

According to her, her husband, who is a computer engineer, makes life difficult for her.

“He gets mad at every opportunity. Complains about everything and takes his frustrations out on me. There is nothing I do that he appreciates. He seems to be the know-it-all while I am seen by him as the trouble that he makes the mistake of marrying. There were times he would threaten to divorce me as if his insulting and cruel manners are something I am happy coping with,’’ she said.

The plump, dark woman said she would have quit the seven-year-old marriage as advised by her family members but was thinking of the fate of her four-year-old daughter. Abiodun stated, “I am not prepared to be a single mum. I know that I was wrong to have given in to his advances too early. Now, I feel that I should have studied him more.”

An entrepreneur, Mr. Anuoluwapo Agboola, noted that many in marriages suffer or endure some form of abuse. “It may differ but both males and females in marriages go through emotional, physical, economic or financial abuse,’’ he said.

A teacher, Mrs. Ronke Ogundimu, however, faulted the position of Agboola, saying she cannot endure an abusive marriage.

Ogundimu said, “In any relationship, there must be mutual love and respect. Any relationship devoid of this should be avoided, else the life of one of the partners may be at risk. Singles should run away from abusive relationships as the signs will be there. A broken courtship is better than a broken marriage.’’

A human resources officer, Mr. Ibukun Sodeinde, urged couples to respect one another, adding that there should be better understanding of issues and forgiveness between them.

An estate valuer, Mr. Ademola Alade, said there was no universal solution for people in abusive relationships. He noted that the solution depended on the individual’s level of maturity.

“Survival depends on tolerance. Our parents exercised patience in their marriages and it turned out that the relationships lasted than what we have now. In tolerance, we earn patience, with patience, all problems become simple, ’’said the father of two.

A psychologist, Prof. Oni Fagboungbe, said an abusive partner usually reacts to certain stimulus within his or her environment traceable to such behaviour.

In his view, an accountant, Mr. Segun Sobowale, said any relationship ridden with abuse showed lack of communication and understanding.

Sobowale said, “The truth is that it can take some time to understand your spouse because you are both from different backgrounds. The best way to cope is to understand your spouse by looking from his/her standpoint. It is not easy but certainly not impossible. The couple will cope well when one is hot and the other is cold because anything said at that time will hurt the other. When one is hot and the other is cold, the moody partner will have no choice than to come to his or her senses.’’

Fagboungbe further advised the abused partner to employ three methods; avoidance, approach and approach-approach in dealing with his or her abusive partner.

He noted, “But if the methods do not realise the intended results after their adoption, then the intervention of a counselling psychologist or clinical psychologist is needed. The partner will also need a shock absorber because we have seen a situation where the abusive partner refuses to change.’’

He said continued stay in such marriage could lead to strangulation or death of the abused partner by the unchanging spouse.

Also, a marriage counsellor, Pastor Bisi Adewale, said there were several dimensions to abuse in marriage.

He noted that there was a new form of abuse in marriage where the wife would arouse the sexual urge of her husband by wearing skimpy attire or walking nearly nude in the house yet withholding sex from her partner.

The relationship expert said, “This is a form of abuse. But anytime we talk of abuse in marriage, what comes to mind is the maltreatment of a woman by her husband. When an abuse is noticed in marriage, the first thing the couple should do is to sit down and talk about it. Communication is the first step. This is because the other part seen as abusing the other may not see it as an abuse. There should be open communication to discuss the issue.’’

Adewale also urged individuals in abusive marriages not to keep quiet but to speak out.

“There is also the need for such individuals to invite ‘help party’ to see how to help them. The husband and wife are first and second parties. Family members, friends and well-wishers who are members of the ‘supporters’ club’ are the third party while experts on relationship matters are ‘help party’. They are the ones who will sit the couple down and talk hard facts to them. For instance, someone like me will tell them the truth since I am not biased towards either the husband or wife,’’ he said.

In his contribution to abuse in marriages on FocusOnTheFamily website, President of the American Association of Christian Counsellors, Dr. Tim Clinton, advised victims to find a safe place to talk and seek professional guidance when developing a strategy to change the situation.

He stressed that each situation must be assessed and addressed on an individual level.

Clinton added, “Until you find that counsellor who best suits you, these resources (strategies) may help you get started in your effort to curb the emotional violence you’re experiencing.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]