Dad has only one house, one car – Yakasai’s son
Salihu is son of a founding member of the Arewa Consultative Forum and Chairman, Northern Elders Council, Alhaji Tanko Yakasai. He speaks about his father’s life and career with TED ODOGWU

Tell us briefly about yourself.

I studied mass communication at Bayero University Kano. I also participated in an executive programme at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government. I am currently the Director General, Media and Communications to the Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje. In that capacity, I am the official spokesperson for the governor.

What childhood memories did you share with your father?

There are indeed uncountable memories. What remains fresh in my memory is the history lessons my father dished to me as a child. He usually narrated to me and my siblings about his struggles in the good old days. I always looked forward to listening to such lively stories because of the intricacies involved in nation building which many new breeds are taking for granted lately.

How did he discipline any of his children who misbehaved?

Sincerely speaking, my father’s usual approach of reprimanding his children was verbal. He would always give us a “last warning” continuously and tell you not to ever try that again. That is after drumming into your ears that you have committed the worst crime of the decade. He was fond of saying, “Tunda Allah ya yi ni ban taba ganin sakarai irin ka ba” which when roughly translated means, “Since my creation by Allah, I have never seen a stupid person like you.” This is one aspect that hurts me the most.

What punishment can you recall he gave you when you acted up?

There is a punishment that will forever remain fresh in my memory. Sometimes ago, I invited my friend studying at the Nigerian Defence Academy in Kaduna and another colleague to our home. I asked them to punish one of our housemaids who disrespected me. And they did. When my dad learnt of it, he immediately sent for me and my immediate elder brother, Sulaiman, to appear before him in his lounge. After lambasting me, he ordered my brother to slap me. My brother, who had been waiting for such an opportunity, gladly did. The punishment changed my attitude to housemaids.

What are his favourite food and drink?

He enjoys lots of northern foods and drinks like tuwo, fura, koko and kosai. He also loves roasted chicken. He eats a lot of fruits and vegetables. He sticks to a balanced diet and this is why he has excellent health condition.

What is his favourite music?

He enjoys Hausa music and has many of the songs in his car. He usually listens to them while travelling. He watches television as well as listening to the news every day. From the international Hausa services news like the BBC Hausa, VOA and DW, which air early in the mornings to TV channels, like BBC, CNN and Aljazeera including NTA, Channels and AIT.

He also reads newspapers daily and that why he is up-to-date on happenings within the country and beyond.

What are his likes and dislikes?

Some of the things that I know he particularly dislikes are people who are deceitful, and untrustworthy. He will always warn you to avoid such people in life.

Does your father’s name open doors for you?

Sometimes his name opens does but other times, it closes them for me. My father is outspoken and always willing to express his opinions and views, no matter whose ox is gored. It will also interest you to know that since I joined partisan politics in 2000, we have always been on different sides politically. Even when we were both in the defunct All Peoples Party, we supported different candidates and as such, belong to different camps. Nevertheless, I do not depend much on my father’s name for opportunities. I work hard. He encouraged all his children to be independent and self-sustaining.

What are your father’s worst and best moments?

I vividly recall that my father’s worst moment was when he lost his mother in 1990 or thereabout, which almost coincided with the loss of one of my sisters, Maryam. Another brother of mine, Ibrahim, died a few years after that. His good moments are usually when anyone of us record achievements in life. He usually expresses his gratitude to God Almighty. All of us are happily married, with children and are working or managing our personal businesses. There are 19 of us alive till date. Unlike traditional polygamous African families, we are one big happy family. He is proud of this.

What are the things people do not know about your father?

This is a tricky one. If I am to list some of them, I’ll say that he loves football a lot. I remember during the 1996 Olympics held in Atlanta, US. The games were usually played late at night. We were at home watching one of the matches in which the Nigerian players did very well as usual. My siblings and I were excited and shouting. He had to scream at us on two occasions to keep quiet so that he could sleep.

Then suddenly, the Nigerian team scored the winning goal and the shouting escalated not only at home but across the entire neighbourhood. He opened his window again and we thought he was going to scream at us. He said, “What’s the final score?” And we told him, he laughed and jubilated as well. He also loves to travel. He has visited over 50 counties across the globe. He has a metal in his leg, surgically placed there after he suffered a broken leg. He has refused to remove it against his doctor’s advice. He has only one house which he lives in Kano. He also owns one car.

He was a liaison officer to former President Shehu Shagari. What can you recall while he worked with Shagari?

To be honest, I was very young then. I was at my formative stage and cannot remember much of my father’s relationship with Shehu Shagari at the time. We were also in Kano at the time while he was in Lagos. We only joined him during holidays. However, I can vividly remember the house we resided in Ikoyi and that he was always having guests and holding meetings in his Ikoyi residence and also in Kano.

He is a founding member of the Arewa Consultative Forum. Does he think that the British colonial policy caused the underdevelopment and illiteracy in the North?

I cannot remember his position on this matter. I guess I will have to ask him that.

How comfortable was his family when he was appointed into public office?

We were already used to his life as a public officer, as most of us were born then. He was among the first set of commissioners in Kano State during the era of the first Military Governor of Kano State, Audu Bako, and since then, he has been holding one position or the other. We are used to that and we always did the best we could to support him.

Did your father influence your appointment by Ganduje?

No, absolutely he didn’t. He was not aware until it was announced over the radio in the morning. I went to him at about 8am to inform him. My appointment was specifically based on merit. I got a call on Friday, May 27, 2016, at about 8pm that Dr. Ganduje needed my attention. I told the person that I just got home from Abuja and I would need about 30 minutes to refresh, as well as have my dinner, which he obliged. On my arrival at the Government House, I was asked to wait for the governor, who was in a meeting which lasted until 12am. I was then ushered into his office and after exchanging pleasantries, he informed me that my predecessor had been promoted to a permanent secretary. He said he needed someone young, with a background in mainstream media and new media to succeed him. He said I had been recommended. Subsequently, he enquired if I would be willing to serve in his administration, which I gladly accepted. I could not inform my parents until the following day when the appointment had already become public knowledge. Prior to that time, I had only met the governor in person few months after his inauguration in 2015.

What are the important things your father told you about life?

The one that stuck with me is that the best lessons in life are not taught in classrooms but from experiences. No matter what life throws at him, he takes it, analyses it and handles it perfectly well. Nothing keeps him awake at night, no matter how bad or good it is. Areas where he can do something about it, he gives it his best. Areas that are beyond his control, he leaves it to God. This is an important lesson that I have learnt from him.

How does your father relax?

He relaxes by reading the Quran, watching TV or playing with his grandchildren. He enjoys playing with his many grandkids.

What are his opinions of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government and the ongoing agitation for Biafra?

On President Buhari’s administration, you know his opinion better than I do. He does not have much faith in most of the administration’s policies and direction and that is where he and I completely disagree. We are both civil on the issue and we respect each other’s views. He has never been a Buhari supporter and I am a religious supporter of Mr. President. We have had several constructive debates about this at home. There was a time he told me that I had given him much headache by supporting Buhari. I replied him that he gave me a bigger headache than I gave him by being against Buhari and we both laughed.

On a personal note, it bothers me when I see people that judge him based on his constitutional right to support any candidate of his choice. By so doing, people that don’t agree with his choice, completely jettison all the sacrifices he made for the North and Nigeria in its entirety. In recent times, these people have decided to base their opinion of him squarely on his choice during the 2015 polls while pushing aside his contributions to the country for at least three-quarter of his 92 years on earth. It even hurts the most when I see young people in this group. Young people who were not born when he was jailed during his struggles in the Northern Elements Progressive Union era, which practically gave us the political freedom to air our minds especially in the North. He is one of the assets we have not only in the northern part of the country but also in Nigeria at large. Initially, I was always hurt but I have learnt to develop a thick skin. Sometimes, I simply ignore them. I have grown to realise that as the son of a public figure, especially one like my father, who does not shy away from airing his views, insults and demeaning comments will come. On Biafra, you know his stand as well. I believe recently he has been granting interviews to that effect and he certainly believes in the unity of this country.

Does your father think that Nigeria will disintegrate?

No, he does not. He believes Nigeria will continue to remain one great nation under God. I think all his compatriots, who have sacrificed a lot to sustain the unity of this country, believe that Nigeria should remain one. He believes that with selfless leadership at all levels, we can achieve greatness and unity in Nigeria.

What is his position on the quit notice issued by northern groups to the Igbo to leave the North?

He believes that every Nigerian has the constitutional right to live wherever he wants in this country. No one should compel anyone to vacate any part of the country just like that. Our immediate neighbour is an Igbo family and we have lived with them in peace for decades. We have even grown into a family. Moreover, I personally think that all these quit notices flying around are ridiculous, creating unwanted tension in the country. You know how volatile Nigeria can be. In my opinion, the quit notice issued by the northern groups was in response to the agitations of the Indigenous People of Biafra. It is in the interest of peace that we should all calm down and embrace one another for the betterment of our nation. We can channel such energy towards holding our leaders at all levels accountable.

To be candid with you, he believes the Igbo are hard-working and business-oriented people. He, however, feels that some of their leaders are promoting their selfish and political agenda. Despite the history of the two tribes, he will tell you many good things about the Igbo and he has many close friends among them.

What are some of the challenges your father faced in life especially while climbing up his career ladder?

For a person like him, you should expect him to have faced daunting challenges in life. But what I love about him is that it never deters him from moving on. I remember reading his autobiography and I came across a chapter, where one of his close associates betrayed him, which led to his imprisonment. Nevertheless, I know the same associate is the closest person to him till date. I have always wondered how he was able to mend fences with him. I asked him about it and he told me things change, people change and you cannot fight everyone all the time. I have seen many people that have hurt him and which he had hurt as well but you will see them like best of friends when they meet. This teaches me that differences in opinion are important and maturity should always prevail.

Why didn’t your father contest either governorship or presidency?

He actually did during the NEPU days, but I believe he lost. You know in recent times, political parties decide who will contest what election and direct the person to do so. However, I believe he later realised that he is a kingmaker, not a king and so decided to stick with that. It is what works for him. Moreover, having contested in several elections myself, I can totally understand his decision to be a kingmaker.

What are the fears you have about his position as a public office holder while growing up?

My fear was always that one day I would come back home and he would not be there because he has been arrested for political reasons on countless occasions. I still remember how he was arrested during President Muhammadu Buhari’s military regime. Operatives of the Department of State Services came in a Peugeot 504 car and two of them put him in the middle of the back seat. We were all crying as they drove away. He was wearing a white kaftan without cap and babanriga (agbada). I believe that was the last time he was arrested but that fear continues to linger in me.

Who are your dad’s best friends?

Most of his bosom friends are late. However, one thing I learnt from him is that he maintained a very close and cordial relationship with his childhood friends, regardless of their achievements in life. Even during his 90th birthday celebrations, he invited them to stand in front of the hall for recognition. He also has good friends across the country. It is something I admire a lot in him.

Your father still looks strong at his age. What is his secret?

Only God can answer that. He is blessed indeed, with good health but, most importantly, with a sound mind. Many of his age mates cannot recall things but his memory is still articulate and intact. Apart from eating healthy, another important thing I mentioned earlier was that nothing keeps him up at night. Things that you will expect to give him sleepless nights do not bother him.

What are the lessons you have learnt from your father?

He has taught me to live a humble and productive life. He taught me not to be materialistic and respect people, even when you do not agree with them. He has also taught me to ensure that I guard my reputation at all cost and be honest and trustworthy. I have learnt to accept the things that I cannot change and give my very best to the things that I can.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]