My daughter’s poor performance in law stopped me from choosing careers for my kids —Ajibola
President, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria and Dean, Postgraduate Studies, Caleb University, Prof. Segun Ajibola, shares his fatherhood journey with TOLUWANI ENIOLA

How would you define fatherhood?

Fatherhood entails bringing a child to the world through the process of procreation to be a responsible person in the community. The father has the responsibility to bring up a child well socially, physically and spiritually.

At what age did you become a father?

I got married at the age of 30 and became a father at the age of 31. It was a wonderful experience.

How would you compare your childhood years with your children’s?

It’s a wall of difference. I was a village boy because I spent most of my childhood years in the village. I was very close to nature. Then, there was no electricity, television and other modern gadgets. In my community, only a few people had radio. I think five or six people had radios. My father was among the lucky ones. People would gather in front of my father’s house to listen. Having a radio was not really a sign of opulence. Because he worked at the local council, he was able to get one. Early in the morning, I used to go to the farm, even when I started school. After school hours, my siblings and I returned to the farm again. We went hunting, swimming in community rivers and played football. We were confined to our immediate environment. We grew up listening to folk tales. It was a communal lifestyle of peer groups and trekking to inter-house sports in another town for 10 miles because there were no cars. But today, the Internet is available to children.

How did this background influence your fatherhood experience?

At the age of 10, for instance, I was already cooking because no one would cook for you. We used to be with our father in the farm. I made it a point of duty at home that no child will live with me without being able to cook. I made sure they embraced a disciplined approach to life. Home chores are a collective responsibility. We always clean our compound together. I also made sure that my children take up duties in the church.

You worked as a banker for many years. How did you combine fatherhood with your busy schedules?

It was pretty difficult for me because I spent like three decades as a banker. If you ask me the major challenge I faced, I would say it was time. As a banker, your time hardly belongs to you. You hardly could decide where you would be in the next moment because the job required total attention. There was not much time to be with the children, to partake in their day-to-day chores, and answer some specific things. I rarely had time to witness their inter-house sports and open day etc. Teaching came at the tail end of my career. Every free moment was used effectively to communicate with my children. I didn’t go clubbing, partying and socialising so the little time I had left, I shared it with my family members.

What ideals did you imbibe from your father which are assisting you in training your kids?

I was very close to my father. He worked in Public Works Department in the old Western Region. He was an extremely hardworking person who combined many things as a farmer, civil servant and leader in the church and community. The first thing I learnt from him was that to be a father, one must be hard-working. One must be able to combine many responsibilities and fulfill one’s obligations. I also learnt discipline, leadership and how to care for others.

What special gift has your children given you to appreciate your fatherly role?

They give me love, care and respect. Those gifts are what I place a premium on, not perishable gifts. I appreciate them the same way by loving, caring and being a responsible father. It could be embarrassing if someone told my wife he saw me in strange places, so I live above board. For three decades in the bank, I never received a query. That already is a precious gift to me.

Is there anything you would love to do differently as a father?

After earning degrees in economics, I studied law and went to Law School because of my love for the course. I really like the course, so well that I wanted my first daughter to study law without seeking her views on it. She gained admission to study law, but after the first session, I discovered that she didn’t do well. I asked her what happened and she said she would have loved to study a different course. I asked why she didn’t tell me initially that she didn’t want to study law. Then I told her to choose her course and she chose mass communication. She changed her course and started all over again in the same university. That was funny to me. Since then, I never asked them to do a course they showed no interest in. I usually give them sufficient information so they don’t choose out of ignorance the way some people did.

Also, I would have been more prayerful if I were to start all over again. That is the only gap. I would have imbibed the fire-for-fire prayer approach immediately after leaving the wedding reception venue. As a couple, we took some things for granted. When challenges came, we knew we had to change the quality of our prayer life.

You earned a first class in economics at the then University of Ife (Now Obafemi Awolowo University). What lessons did you teach your children based on the academic feat?

I made a first class by the grace of God. If my background was anything to go by, making a first class would have been a tall order. God was very graceful to me. I lived like a pauper in the university. I had no means of survival. I was eking out a living. Eventually, dedication, commitment, perseverance and courage with the grace of God saw me to that level. I graduated top of my class. It was very hard. For instance, I had no money to buy textbooks. I relied on friends and the library. I starved for a long time until my third year when the then Governor Adekunle Ajasin paid us bursary. I entered the university without a kobo.

I was always eating garri and groundnut. Instead of the cafeteria, I would go to ‘bukateria.’ I usually spent 20 kobo to feed, instead of 50 kobo charged in the cafeteria. I had only a few clothes. My parents were old. I should have been taking care of my parents at the time, so there was no need to bother them for money. During the holidays, I was always shuttling between one vacation job to another. Sometimes, the jobs were unavailable.

How do you handle conflicting views on parenting with your wife?

It hardly happens. When you succumb to the will of God, those conflicting areas would have fizzled out. We hardly disagree. Where we had disagreements, we looked at options. I enjoy superiority of arguments at home. I encourage my family to examine facts. In my corporate life also, I always succumbed to superior argument.

Do you cook at home?

I am a good cook. I have had to live alone in the course of my life. I never imbibed the attitude of eating in a restaurant. Even when I lived in Abuja for some years, I rarely ate outside. There is no type of soup or food I cannot prepare. My family knows that whenever I am out of town, I cook. I don’t go to restaurants, even if the pressure is on me. I will rather drink garri than eat outside.

How did you meet your wife?

We are from the same town. She is a teacher. She was raised up in Ile-Ife, Osun State where her father was a pastor of one of the Baptist churches. We were members of the same church when I was a student at OAU. The pastor of the church was from our town. We thus became his adopted children. I prayed and God led me to her. I told my father. I waited for three years to receive a response on my proposal. We were always looking at each other from a distance. It is not an easy thing to approach a pastor’s daughter for marriage (laughs). That we are from the same town and being Baptists was a plus.

What is the most important relationship advice you have given your children?

The most important thing is not to look at who a person is today to decide on marriage. Material possession, elegance or qualification is secondary. You should ask, in 40 years’ time, will my love for him or her remain the same? People should get married because of genuine love; love that is not dependent on material possessions. It does not matter whether that person is trekking today, jobless or broke. Don’t marry simply because your partner is rich or has material wealth. The most important question should be: does he or she have the fear of God? Has he known Christ? Even race, tribe or language does not matter. Once you sort that out, then there is no problem. If you are in a relationship because of material possession, the day the possessions fizzle out, the relationship ends. This is why we have many broken homes. Those relationships were never consummated based on things that will last. They were consummated on things that were ephemeral. The moments those things crumble, the marriage also ends.

As a lecturer, how best do you think parents should create time for their children?

The challenges in homes impact on students. Many students come from troubled homes; homes where the father had divorced the mother. Such children will struggle to cope. These students do not enjoy the warmth in the home because of the rift between father and mother. There are also students from polygamous homes weighed down by marital challenges. Children from such backgrounds have complex problems to deal with. They already see the society as unfair and as well as a battlefield. That is why we have problems of drug abuse, social maladies, and students battling with unethical behaviours. If you check their backgrounds, something is wrong. This is not to say that students from good homes don’t have problems. But those from troubled homes are more disadvantaged.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]