I still wonder if I’m their mother — Mum of twins, triplets
A public relations expert, Mrs. Julleanne Oriakhi, tells ARUKAINO UMUKORO her story as a mother of twins who was also recently delivered of triplets

Please introduce yourself.

I work for an advertising agency as a brand analyst. I am a public relations practitioner married to a medical doctor, Abel Oriakhi. We got married on February 19, 2011. Our union has been an interesting journey.

You were recently delivered of triplets. Was this your first pregnancy?

No, it was the second. I go by the name ‘Fruitful Julleanne’ on my social media platform. I christened myself ‘fruitful’ shortly after our traditional wedding on April 3, 2010, while the white wedding held on February 11, 2011. The name came as an inspiration after a programme at the Fountain of Life Church, Ilupeju, Lagos. I told myself that as I was getting married at 30, I didn’t want any form of delay in marriage. I included the name fruitful on all my social media platforms. I strongly believed in the word ‘fruitful.’ My first pregnancy produced a set of twins. The babies came exactly nine months after our white wedding. I had always desired to have identical twins. Whenever I saw twins, I always stopped to greet and play with them. I was always excited to see twins. When I was 11 weeks gone in my first pregnancy, I went for a scan at the hospital and was told I was expecting twins.

My husband was not in support of having twins at first. He felt that medically, women with multiple gestations are always ill and on admission in the hospital. I was glad that it was a very smooth journey. They were born on December 5, 2011.

When did you give birth to the triplets?

They were born on May 19, 2017, six years after I had given birth to twins. They are all boys. We named them Kahose Chukwukaima, Nehita Chukwuzitere, and Eniose Chukwuebuka.

Were you apprehensive that your second pregnancy took that long?

No, it was not a delay per se. I didn’t really think I wanted another child immediately because I am a career person. I have had to change jobs and the responsibilities meant I had to do a lot of moving around and travelling. So, having twins was already a sort of challenge. When I conceived for the second time, I didn’t even know I was pregnant until it was six weeks.

How do you differentiate them?

Two of the triplets (the first and the last born) are identical because they shared the same placenta, while the other is not. For the identical ones, there is a scar somewhere on one of them, which helps me to identify one from the other.

What are their unique characteristics?

There is the calm one among them; the last born, Eniose. The first born, I call him my town crier, because he cries a lot, unlike the last born who cries only if he is hungry. Once the first born cries, one cannot control him. The one in the middle, the second-born, has a mind of his own. He is very attractive even at five weeks old. He knows what he wants. If one wants to carry him, put him down or rub his head, he allows one to. He also wants to be breastfed all the time.

What has been the most interesting thing for you having triplets and watching them grow?

I still wonder if I am their mother. Interestingly, for multiple gestations, there are usually complications, but I didn’t experience any. I had no complications and I carried them to 36 weeks which is rare.

I see the wonders of God every day watching them. The only complication, I would say, was just that they were heavy (to carry). But they are all growing very well. They were delivered of through a caesarean section.

Was the pregnancy through In Vitro Fertilisation?

No, it was not. Like I mentioned earlier, I didn’t even know I was pregnant.

How did you feel when you found out that you were pregnant with triplets?

My husband did the scan on me and confirmed I had three sacs. The first thing that came to my mind was the economy of the country and how one could have triplets in a recession. I knew what it takes to raise twins already. Interestingly, my husband was super excited. When I left his office and was driving back to my office, I had mixed feelings about it because of the country’s economic situation. But my husband’s excitement kept me going and made me hopeful and optimistic of a better tomorrow which I am seeing now.

How has your husband’s profession helped you in your motherhood journey?

It has been tremendously helpful although my husband was not my personal gynaecologist. But at the hospital I was registered with, my gynaecologist, Dr. Taiwo Olabode, was fantastic. It was refreshing to know that in Nigeria, one could go through such process without complications. My husband also played crucial roles as he constantly checked my BP, pulse and other things at home. I had a constant medical attention. When the babies were born, he has also been helpful in changing their diapers, nursing their navels, their circumcision period and so on.

How does the arrival of the baby make you feel?

My hands are full now.

How did you feel when you first held the triplets?

It was heart-warming to see and hold them in my arms. I asked myself what I had done to deserve such God’s goodness and mercy.

How challenging has it been nursing them?

It had been quite challenging. I only have my 70-year-old mother, myself and my husband to take care of them. While my husband goes to work, I am currently at home to take care of the babies. When I had the twins, my mum was five years younger, so it was easier for her to do the running around all alone. But with the triplets, it is different. We are working towards getting a dedicated nanny.

How do you balance motherhood and your career?

It is also quite challenging. I had to reduce my work schedules at a point.

What are you most grateful for now?

I am most grateful for life generally. It wasn’t an easy journey being pregnant with twins and triplets. My initial plan was to travel abroad to be delivered of them, but with the forex crisis, I had to reconsider my plans. I was sceptical and worried about getting good medical care in Nigeria. To God be the glory, I got one of the best here.

From your experience, what is your advice to married women who are in their 30s and expecting their first child?

I can only say that one thing in life is that God has made it that we should all be fruitful. They should hold on to God, be patient and have it in mind that God who has made them women would make them fruitful. At the right time, He will give them children. I chose to bear ‘fruitful’ and it worked for me. Women that desire the same testimony can also adopt such.

How did your twins react when they knew they were going to have triplets as siblings?

Oh, they were very excited. Even when I was pregnant, I told them ‘mummy is expecting babies,’ but I never told them how many. They didn’t know what I meant but they kept telling people the same. The people they told felt they were simply talking as children. My twins are a boy and a girl; and my daughter has been helpful. I have started teaching her how to carry her little brothers.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]