Should couples jointly own property?
TOLUWANI ENIOLA examines the views of married couples on joint ownership of property

Although Mr. Adeola Fagbemi, a Christian, understands the Bible verse which says, “And the two shall become one flesh”, he does not believe in owning property jointly with his wife.

The trader, who has been married for five years, expressed reservations about joint ownership of property among couples.

He told SUNDAY PUNCH that his decision not to acquire properties jointly with his wife was the best thing in order to avoid trouble after his death.

Fagbemi said, “Yes, we are one flesh but joint ownership is not the best. The reason is that in the case of death, don’t be surprised if the wife takes over the property without even considering the children and extended family members. I have heard a few cases where some people have exemplified greed.”

A digital marketer, identified only as Mrs. Akosa, shared Fagbemi’s views. According to her, joint ownership of property is not a wise decision because of many reasons such as who gets what if one of the couples dies or there is divorce.

She said, “When my husband buys something, it is for us. But the receipts bear his names. If I buy anything too, it is for us. But the receipt bears my name.”

“The person who pays for the property owns it. When trouble comes, one of the spouses can easily claim everything, whether he or she bought it with their money or not. In my opinion, if at all there should be a joint ownership, it should be in one of the children’s names. I do not support ownership of property. It is dangerous. What if a man has a child out of wedlock?”

For Mr. James Adebisi, who works in a construction firm Lagos, Fagbemi and Akosa’s views should not arise if they love their spouses. Olaoye believes that joint ownership of property among couples is a sign of true love.

Olaoye said his position was vital for couples ready to make their marriages work.

He said, “The Bible states that once two people are joined in wedlock, they have become one. Hence, they need to own property jointly. Whatever I buy bears the name of my wife and I. It is a very good idea because it will ultimately help us to plan for the future with what both of us have acquired.’’

Mrs. Modupe Ariyo supported Olaoye. The mother of three said, “I am in full support of joint ownership of property between couples because it will enhance coordination of property and strengthen the marriage. When couples own property jointly, it unifies them more. I also believe it is a sign of true love. All our properties are jointly owned. I don’t have a problem with that.”

Mrs. Mary Adebisi, however, said she refused to own property together with her husband because of the fear of in-laws.

Adebisi, who disclosed that she is the breadwinner of her family, said she bought properties in her name to avoid trouble with her husband’s family.

“It is very important to say that joint ownership of property is a very difficult thing to do. We cannot be created equally in terms of material things and wealth. I am not praying for my husband to die. But who knows tomorrow? If we adopt joint ownership of property, his family can lay claim to what I have laboured for.

“I can bet that my people will not be happy with the decision. The fact that this has caused crisis in many homes as we can see nowadays makes it undesirable,” she noted.

A cleric, Pastor Emmanuel Odejayi, however, advised married couples to own property jointly. The cleric said such aligns with biblical instructions.

He identified lack of trust and infidelity as reasons why couples may not consider the option. “Once, there is trust, love and understanding, I don’t think there should be a reason for not doing so,’’ he said.

Odejayi further noted that it was unfortunate that some married couples buy properties and keep the information from their spouses. This, according to him, has ruined many homes.

The cleric stated that oneness, as illustrated in biblical teachings, is not limited to spiritual things alone but even in finances and investments. He, therefore, urged couples to own property jointly.

A Professor of Islamic Eschatology and Director of Muslim Rights Concern, Ishaq Akintola, said there was nothing bad if a married couple decide to own property jointly. Akintola said Islam, as a religion, is not against the practice.

The don, however, observed that Islamic has specific rules on how inheritances should be shared.

He said, “A husband can own a property. The wife can also own a property. That presupposes that joint ownership of property between couples is allowed in the Islamic religion. There is nothing that stops couples from joint ownership of property if they so agree to do so. The idea that a woman should not own property, or should not work or earn a living is alien to Islamic. A woman can work; own property and can earn a living.

“There is faith in everything we do. If it is based on Taqwa, which is the fear of God, people don’t expect any hostile attitude from the family of the wife or the family of the husband because there are rules concerning how things should be shared, such as inheritance. They are properly spelt out in Islam.”

Arguing from a legal perspective, a lawyer, Oladotun Hassan, said by virtue of the Marriage Act, the husband and wife have equal rights and benefits, at the instance of death of either parties. According to him, in the case of death, the surviving partner has the exclusive right of ownership of all properties, if not distinctly separated as individual property.

He said, “In this case, it must have been well specified in a will or draft documents such as Deed of Gift or when used as security for a loan. However, I will not support exclusive joint ownership of property, especially when the parties only used Mr. and Mrs. so and so without writing the full names of each person as joint owners of all documents relating to the property.

“It is advisable not to adopt joint ownership of property owing to divorce rate in the country. It must be understood that, when sharing the wealth, it is really difficult to equitably share such jointly owned properties. However, when couples own joint account and property, its essence must be well analysed especially if it is aimed at solidifying the marriage as one bond.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]