Should couples house in-laws?
GBENGA ADENIJI examines the views of married couples on allowing relations live with them

Bamijoko Fadahunsi works with a research and marketing firm in Lagos. During one of his field trips sometime last year, the tall, dark 42-year-old man said he was surprised to receive a call from his wife requesting for an urgent discussion.

He said he was initially scared because of the rush in her voice and had to call her back when she abruptly ended the call. Fadahunsi said, “I was trying to meet up with an appointment that day. When I eventually reached her on the phone, she told me that one of her relatives called to request to live with us. She added that the person wanted a response in a jiffy. I was angry at first but calmed down later after analysing the sensitive nature of the case. I did not want to offend my wife or appear as a bad in-law to her relations.’’

He stated that he intuitively told her to maturely tell the relative to be patient pending their arrangement of a suitable place in the house for her to stay.

“I ruminated on the matter and could not sleep well throughout that week. I know my wife, she cannot refuse her request. I also tried not to offend my in-law. We live within our means and try not to let people know how we manage our affairs. I cannot imagine how I would be feeling every day as my wife, our two kids and I lead our modest lifestyle knowing that there is a visitor in the house who consciously or unconsciously monitors our way of life. After not hearing from us for a month, the relative didn’t tender the request again,’’ he added.

To an engineer, Mr. Kayode Awolola, it is not a good idea for married couples to allow any of their relations to live with them.

Awolola added, “Married couples who allow relatives to stay with them risk reduction in the intimacy between them. For instance, if it is the husband’s relation that is living with the couple, he may not be able to help his wife with house chores freely because of the presence of his relative in the house.’’

A civil servant who works in a polytechnic in Edo State, Mr. Samuel Peter, advised married couples to discuss the issue before allowing in-laws to stay with them.

Peter said, “In case they are unable to reach a consensus, they should not allow any relative come over. Also, newly-weds should not be in haste to accommodate in-laws because they need to understand one another better and also keep their home free from any interference. This may sound incorrect, but in-laws, even without living with couples, have great influence on their union let alone when they live with them.’’

According to him, if couples have no choice than to accommodate in-laws, they should ensure they stay away from their bedrooms and also keep some vital information away from them.

But a book marketer, Mr. Gbolahan Olayinka, has a different view on the matter. He said some circumstances could warrant some persons to want to live with their married relations.

Olayinka noted, “It is important to look at the reasons why the in-laws request to stay with their married relations. It may be because of some circumstances beyond their control. So, when that happens, one will have to grant their request or take it upon oneself to do so without them asking. For instance, I lost my older sister last year. Her husband also passed on shortly after. After discussing with my wife, we decided to accommodate their kids.’’

On her part, a businesswoman based in Ghana, Mrs. Akeju Hassan, who described marriage as a sensitive relationship, added that in-laws living with married couples should be regarded as external bodies.

She stated, “It is only good if relations live with couples for a short duration. One cannot enjoy one’s partner if one has in-laws around for too long, no matter how nice they are. That is the truth. The husband or wife will want to impress them. The majority of in-laws want to exercise control. Allowing in-laws to live with one is tantamount to exposing one’s home. One will end up living for them. In-laws create drama.”

She also argued that it was better for married couples to assist relations financially than to allow them live with them. “Marriage is between a man and a woman and in-laws are not part of it, ’’ she noted.

In his contribution, a pastor, Michael Akande, said when viewed from a cultural angle, married couples would not want to refuse the request from relations to live with them.

The clergyman, however, noted that when examined deeply without emotion, granting such request could destabilise their homes.

“It is an issue that needs to be handled with care especially when the couples are newly-weds. If the in-law is related to the wife, he or she can narrate any untoward affairs in the relationship between the husband and the wife to other family members. This can also be the same if the relation is related to the husband and the result will cause trouble in the home. There is no way they can best handle the case when crisis starts,’’ Akande stated.

He urged couples to render any support within their capacity to any family member in need rather than allowing them live with them.

“It is the best thing to do. Allowing in-laws to live with them cannot be a wise decision. They can support any family member who they think needs help in a good way without toying with the idea of accommodating the person,’’ he added.

Also, a lawyer and father of one, Mr. Chinedu Christopher, told SUNDAY PUNCH that he once accommodated one of his relations who nearly broke his home.

He narrated that the family member was always fighting with his wife over petty issues until he rudely called her barren one day.

Christopher said, “That period was a trying one for me. My wife pleaded with me for her to vacate the house so I could have peace. How can my wife leave the house for an in-law? She is a gentle woman; I saw the trait in her before marrying her. But the provocation was too much for her that she spoke her mind about it only once. I had to behave like a man and tell the relation to leave. We now have our peace but the experience has refused to go. I will not allow such to be repeated.’’

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]