I’ve given up on having a tidy home — Mother of three kids
An entrepreneur, Mrs. Adesola Akerele, tells ARUKAINO UMUKORO about life as a new mother

Please tell us about yourself.

I am a mother of three and I run my own small business. I am an incurable optimist who believes there is always a way out of every tight situation.

Describe your life as a new mom in three words.

Challenging, disorganised and educating. Even though I have two older children, I discovered there is still more to learn as a new mother. I don’t know it all.

How were the first few days for you after leaving the hospital?

It was stressful! With the baby coming a few weeks early, I was ill-prepared for the naming ceremony. I had to plan the ceremony and cope with people moving in and out of the house. I really hate hosting parties and what I had wanted was for the naming to be over and done with. Though my mother in-law was around to help with the baby, and my husband and friend were there to help with planning it, it was a huge relief when it was finally over.

What has been the hardest thing about being a new mother again?

The most difficult part for me is getting up early in the morning. I am not a morning person, but with two kids (who I need to get ready for school) and a baby to look after, I just have to get up early. It is easier when my husband is around to help with the kids, but each time he’s out of town, it’is always a struggle.

What are some of the things you have observed in taking care of a newborn?

My hygiene level increased exponentially. With a new baby, you cannot be too careful. You are always washing a cloth or a bottle, making sure there is nothing the baby can easily pick and get an infection from. I have discovered that there is such a thing as motherly instinct. I really cannot explain it, but this instinct has saved me a lot of hassles in recent times and I have learnt to obey it. For instance, when I am away from home or my baby is out of sight, I usually know when he needs me.

Also, people expect you to know what your baby wants anytime he is crying and uncomfortable. Sometimes, when my husband asks me, ‘‘Why is he crying?’’ I’am usually tempted to say “Honey, I don’t speak baby language.” But overtime, I have learnt to understand his cries and whimpers.

Compare your life before motherhood to life as a mother.

There is a huge difference. Before motherhood, I only had myself and husband to consider. I could go anywhere and do anything without thinking twice. I could even pick up any job I wanted. But now, I have to always consider the children. I have to watch how I talk, I cannot stay out late at night, unless there is someone trustworthy I can leave them with. Wherever I go, the baby goes. I cannot even plan a vacation without considering them. I guess it is because I love having them around. I love the welcome they give me whenever I return from an outing. Also, I have given up on having a tidy home, maybe things would change when they are in their teens. I wonder how some mothers manage to keep their home tidy. For me, motherhood is a lifelong lesson in patience and sacrifice.

What kind of food did you crave for during your pregnancy?

Maybe chocolates, I have a sweet tooth, so I guess I just indulged myself because I was pregnant.

What were some unusual things you demanded?

I cried a lot and worked like my life depended on it. My husband was always trying to get me to stop working. I just had so much energy to burn.

What are the things you would love to change about your birth experience if you could?

I will do without the episiotomy. Asides that, my birth experience was perfect. A hundred per cent times better than the previous one.

When was your son born?

He was born in August, 2016. His name is Ayomipo Samuel Adekunle. His dad named him.

Did you know the gender of your baby beforehand and how did you feel about it?

The doctor wasn’t too sure it was a boy, so I was quite unsure; although I really hoped it would be a boy since I had two girls already.

How did your husband help you before and after the birth of your child?

My husband has always been, and is still, a pillar of strength and support. He helped with the older children and was my personal driver anytime he was around. He was in the delivery room when I had my baby and I can never forget the experience. He held my hands and kept encouraging and praying for me in a quiet voice that was quite soothing. He has been in and out of time since the baby’s birth, but I enjoy leaving our baby with him anytime I can manage it.

How much should husbands be involved in helping their wives during pregnancy?

They should be involved a hundred per cent. I wish there was a way husbands could share in carrying the pregnancy, especially during the last trimester. But since that is not possible, every husband should educate themselves on what is going on with their wives’ bodies. They should try to understand the different emotions being experienced and offer help as much as possible – and be very tolerant too.

What things make you happy as a mother when your son does them?

His smile is so disarming. It has a way of calming my nerves and easing out the stress. I just love that smile.

What would be your advice to a first-time mother or women who are yet to have babies?

To a first-time mother I would say, breathe easy, a baby is not an egg, but be vigilant; especially about his or her health. When there is a temperature change or a rash you cannot explain, do not rush to the Internet, it will only increase your anxiety. It is better to call an experienced mother you trust or see a doctor. My mother-in-law and younger sister (who is a doctor) are usually my first points of reference. Also, you cannot do it all. Ask for help whenever you can. There is always someone out there willing to help. To women who are yet to have children, nothing can prepare you for motherhood and no two experiences are the same. Enjoy yours when it comes.

Can you describe your experience while in labour?

It started in the morning with minor contractions and didn’t progress until late evening. At some point in the afternoon, we were already thinking it was a false labour. By 7pm, while I was in the market trying to do some last-minute shopping, the contractions became more frequent. We went back to the hospital and by 10pm, I put to bed. The doctor already told me to prepare my mind for a Caesarean section if my baby was too big because I had my previous child through CS. I didn’t want this and, fortunately for me, it wasn’t necessary. The labour pangs were painful, but not unbearable and, thankfully, didn’t last long.

How do you balance motherhood and your career?

It’is a constant struggle for me, but I would say I am coping well. Fortunately, I own my own business, so I am able to schedule my work hours to afford me time for the kids.

What change did you notice in your body while pregnant which you didn’t like?

I loved my body during pregnancy, especially because I added extra flesh. Right now, I need to get rid of the excess fat in my belly.

What advice did your mother give you about motherhood that helped you till date?

I should always be protective of my children and never trust anyone completely with my children. They are my responsibility.

Some new moms are usually overprotective of their children. Was that your case?

I was indeed over protective of my children but I learnt to relax over time.

What kind of parenting do you intend to give your child?

I want my children to grow up in an atmosphere of love and security, knowing they can achieve whatever they set their heart to achieve.

Famous quote

The joy in motherhood comes in moments. There will be hard times and frustrating times, but amid the challenges there are shining moments of joy and satisfaction — American businessman and religious leader, M. Russell Ballard

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]