My children don’t want to be professors — Ibidapo-Obe
A former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Prof. Oye Ibidapo-Obe, tells TOLUWANI ENIOLA about what fatherhood has taught him

What does fatherhood mean to you?

A father is an overall caregiver in a family. He gives care and provides facilities for the home. And in giving care, he also provides emotional intelligence to lead the family. He must demonstrate that father figure, the iconic model for what is good and proper for his family.

Do you share the view that fathers are basically to provide for the home while mothers take care of the home?

I don’t think that is right. The disadvantage of limiting oneself to merely providing for the needs at home is that one will not be intimate with one’s children. They will not know you. They just see one as a provider. That is very bad. They will only expect you to give and give. I don’t agree. Meeting needs at home is good. A father’s role is not limited to that. A father’s role is to provide comfort for his children and wife. He must do that but it goes beyond the provision of material needs. It means talking to them, providing spiritual guidance and trying to teach them what they need to survive in the outer world. A father needs to make them draw closer to God and take them to church. After church service sometimes, we went and had lunch and bought ice cream. They look forward to these little, little things.

At what age did you become a father and what was your first experience?

I became a father in 1976, just a few months before my 27th birthday. I saw it coming. I was prepared because I read a lot of literature on childbirth. I was relieved when I heard the news. I was delighted when I saw my first child.

Why did you read literatures on childbirth?

I needed to know about conception and childbirth. I was able to know more about the dangers and safety issues, which are not as easy as two plus two is equal to four. I was grateful to God when I had my son.

Were you anxious at the hospital?

It was not an anxiety problem. It was just anticipation. There was no cause for alarm but even from the literatures we know that anything can happen when it comes to the delivery of a child.

What are some of the challenges of fatherhood?

The real challenge is the ability to combine fatherhood with day-to-day living. When one becomes a father, one’s total system changes. It is no longer you and your wife. You have to think of your baby. Babies took a lot of time in those days because we did not rely on caregivers such as house help or housemaid. We needed to plan our schedules in such a way that we could spend as much time as we could to care for the baby. I had a good job so I didn’t have financial issues. When I travelled abroad for further studies, I was a bachelor. So, juggling study with fatherhood was not a challenge for me.

How have you been able to balance your job and roles as a father?

The work to do (as an academic) was fairly streamlined. I had to do some research which I was already familiar with during my doctoral programme. I also needed to do some teaching. I hardly needed to do any special studies so, I was able to do all that and also enjoy my life. It was not difficult as such; the anxiety as to the wherewithal to fund the home was not there. Security challenges were not there. It is common to face the challenges of how to settle down in terms of housing. But in my case, it was not a serious challenge for me because my employer provided accommodation.

I was able to concentrate at home with my new life as a father. My wife, the baby and I were all together, maybe because I had anticipated some of the distractions they would pose. It wasn’t beyond control. I just had to be accommodating.

How do your wife and children treat you at home?

They have given me everything I need such as respect. I get a lot of pampering from my wife and children. The only thing is that I continue to do my work. I am sure if they can do the work for me, they will. Of course, they can’t do it.

What is your most memorable experience as a father?

There are many but let me tell you one of them. My son went to a boarding school. I specifically wanted him to go there so he could learn to be intimate with others aside from his family. But he found it difficult settling in the boarding school. He would come every Friday and I took him back on Sundays.

When he got home on one of such Fridays, the first place he went to was the toilet and he spent much time there. I then asked him, what happened. He said he did not like going to toilet when he was in school. I asked why and he said the toilets in the school were very bad. That was funny to me. Overall, I got excited when they come back with their results from school and they always performed very well, winning prizes. It gave me joy.

Have you cooked for your family before?

Oh, I must confess I never cooked (laughs). My wife does that all the time.

Tell us about your father.

My father was a very busy man. But I know that he had some special interest, essentially in me. Despite his busy schedule, he found time to talk to me about my school work, I know he was keen about me being comfortable and from that point of view, I learnt from him.

What roles do fathers play in raising responsible leaders?

Nigeria is a country of families. Every country is a congregation of families. These families make up villages and towns. The foundation of every country is the family. Within that family, there has to be a father figure. I use that word carefully to ensure that the father figure does not necessarily have to be a male. It can be a female. There are families where the first daughter is so powerful that she is in charge and plays the role well. Fatherhood, as you can see, becomes a very important concept that is needed for national growth and development.

When you look at what is happening in Nigeria today, you will notice that there is a lack of proper parenting. This has bred problems such as area boys, calamity, kidnapping and others. This is because the father figure could not inculcate in their children from day one the fear of God and the respect for people. For instance, consider religious and tribal intolerance; unfortunately, these issues get obliterated when there is much money to throw around. As money becomes a little bit scarcer, then all these problems would start. Look at what is happening in South Africa where many Nigerians currently work. That is because of the economy situation which also happened to us here when we started the Ghana-must-go campaign. The fatherhood problem is responsible for this inability to accommodate. Fathers are supposed to teach their children the ability to accommodate others and to appreciate other people as much as their family members. When we were small boys, they taught us all those things. They taught us what to do to ourselves, neighbours, farms and animals. They showed us why we needed to respect humanity and human dignity.

How did you tackle student unrest during your tenure as vice-chancellor?

The university has a system for mentorship. If we follow that system of mentorship very well, there will be no problem. Every student is supposed to have an advisor; they call it course advisor. The course advisor will ensure that the student has a hitch-free stay in the university. Now, these advisors would assist the students outside the academics to have a socially rewarding stay in the university. Unfortunately, most of the people, who are teaching, are not alive to their responsibilities. Students are left on their own. The not-so-good boys will take over that responsibility that is unfilled.

My experience in the university was to encourage our staff who were doing their roles very well. I encouraged them to give the students more responsibilities so that they could do well in their academics as well. The vice-chancellor has a lot of prerogative. For instance, if you assist the vice-chancellor in maintaining peace and order in the university, he has the ability to sponsor you to conferences and workshops locally and overseas. You know when you are spending extra hours counselling students, rather than doing some personal work, it is daunting. I always put myself in their positions. Fatherhood matter has to do with mentorship and ability to do well and encourage them.

How much has fatherhood changed your views about life?

Fatherhood has not changed my perspective on life. It has only kept me on a straight and narrow path. I have always been on a straight and narrow path. When you become a father, you have an added responsibility, not only financially, but the way you behave changes. The intensity and the length of going out of the house will reduce; either because of the excitement of being a father or because you just have to be at home to provide for your children. Nobody teaches anybody that. My children are grown ups so they know what is right and wrong.

How did you discipline your children?

I never banned corporal punishment in my house. I employed corporal punishments for my children when they misbehaved. I would tell them to stand on one leg or close their eyes for a while; sometimes, I say, “come, come and take two strokes of the cane.” But what we were told was that we should not beat our children when we are annoyed. When you are annoyed, you take a breath and then punish them. You don’t beat them when you are annoyed so as not to hurt them.

What are the concerns your children discuss with you?

They are very concerned about my health. They want to make sure I do my check up and they pay for it. They give me birthday reception. They take care of me.

What would you have become if you had not gone into teaching?

Professionally, I wanted to be an accountant. I thought they were doing a wonderful job and adding value.

What roles did you play in the career choices of your children?

To be honest, if you play your fatherhood roles very well, your children will want to be like you. They either want to be like you or they want to be like your wife. But my children don’t want to be professors.

Why don’t they want to be professors?

That is not because of my personal experience. It is because of what the society does. It is the societal influence that does not favour being a professor or make it look so attractive. One of my children is working but the other three will rather be professionals.

It is not because of the rigours or that it is tedious; they are probably even more brilliant than me. It is a question of what does the society regard. During my own time, the society regarded teachers highly. A few professors then were stars. My father used to talk about them. They were popular. It was a great thing to be a professor then but not anymore. That is why being a professor does not interest them.

What advice would you give to fathers?

Stay close to your family as much as you can. Try to do the best. Let them (your family) understand you are doing your best. What is important is contentment. Some people are not contented with what God has done for them. Of course, you should be ambitious. But you have to do a moratorium on your ambition so that you don’t become greedy. Talk to them. Communication is important.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]