Coping with a jobless spouse
GBENGA ADENIJI writes about the best ways to cope with an unemployed partner

Coping with a partner without job can be a daunting task especially if the burden of proving for the household rests solely on the other partner.

This is the situation an insurance policy marketer identified only as Solomon said he found himself five years ago.

Solomon said his wife was ‘managing’ in a commercial bank as a field account opening officer on a paltry N25, 000 monthly before the contract ended.

He said, “I depended on commission as an insurance policy marketer. It was a tough one for me as I coped with several requests from family members and my wife. She tried to help by reducing her requests most times but there was no way she could do away with the ones about our feeding. Before we got married, she was working at a clothing store in Ikeja, Lagos, as sales representative. After marriage, we moved to a far location in the state and she quit the job but got another one in a bank. I usually denied myself good sleep every night by thinking of what the future held.’’

Solomon told SUNDAY PUNCH that prayers and help of his wife coupled with understanding between them saw him through the period which he described as ‘frustrating.’’ He added that there was a time he had to tell his wife that they would have to skip meals.

According to him, sometimes, he could visit companies to sell insurance to their workers without success and during the period, his family usually had nothing to eat.

“My wife was always hopeful, meeting some of her genuine friends to see if there was any job she could do. I was happy the day she got a job in a firm as a receptionist. She is a trained secretary. I will advise couples who are experiencing this period to hold on to God, refuse to betray one another by spreading the matter and be hard-working. It is a phase that will pass. I have been through it so I know what I am saying. I have a new job and things are looking up for us, ’’ he noted.

Also speaking, a business manager at a Lagos-based firm, Mr. Ayodeji Babatunde, said it could be depressing when a spouse finds it difficult to contribute to the upkeep of his or her family due to joblessness.

Babatunde advised couples in such situation to cope with the stage through understanding, prayer, communication and love with the hope that it would not last for long.

He added, “It will be transient and this should be the first thing they need to know. It is important that they both take some economic steps by cutting down unnecessary expenses. The affected partner should be shown constant love in order to avoid the adverse effects that unemployment can have on a marriage or relationship. This is usually the kind of period that their commitment and love to each other are put to test. As such, the employed spouse bears much of the household responsibilities in providing the desired emotional and financial support.”

In same vein, Mrs. Olufisayo Babawale who is the Executive Director, Child Advocacy Rehabilitation and Education, noted that the situation portends a big challenge in homes especially when the jobless spouse is the husband.

“In that kind of circumstance, the woman will need a lot of strength to shoulder the responsibilities in the home financially and psychologically. She will need the support of friends which is not always available in most cases. The situation can make or break the marriage depending on how the lovers handle it while it lasts,’’ Babawale said.

She further advised couples to embrace calmness during the period while noting that communication was also vital.

“The couple must understand that it is a phase and it will pass,’’ she stated.

For an accountant, Mr. Segun Sobowale, understanding between the couple would be needed in large measure to survive the situation.

Sobowale said, “My wife is a graduate but never had a job. It is with encouragement and good planning that we are coping during the current recession. I have to be sincere that it is not easy as we occasionally have conflicts due to unnecessary demands. The solution lies in scale of preference. We priotise our needs. We tackle what is important and postpone others that can wait. ”

A website on family matters, familyshare, urged couples with unemployed partners to stay positive, network, focus on job hunt and reduce needless expenses. It also advised the employed partners to be cheerleaders and not coaches to their jobless spouses.

It noted, “Of course, the budget is something you’ll need to discuss, but first, set aside your worries and show some sympathy. Do something special together and have faith that your spouse will be able to find another job. Unemployed people often feel inferior and want to hide the fact that they’re unemployed. Most of the time, the best strategy for finding a new job, is to do the exact opposite. Let friends, family, co-workers, and neighbours know that your talented spouse is looking for a job. Brag about your spouse’s abilities on social networking sites, asking your friends to be on the lookout for openings.’’

It also noted that while job hunting, couples could urge their unemployed spouses to engage in activities capable of getting their minds off the matter. The website noted that such activities could include going for a walk, taking a bubble bath, checking out local library, volunteering to help someone who’s less fortunate and trying a new recipe.

An ex-worker with a microfinance bank in Ogun State, Mr. Ignatius Obim, said the problem associated with being unemployed was huge especially if the affected partner was the breadwinner.

He told our correspondent that the burden would have weighed him down if his wife was not into trading with her business thriving before he was sacked. Obim said, “It came as a shock initially but after some months, I started coping. It is a tough task really if a husband has no job, same goes for the wife. But the impact will be more on the husband as he is culturally expected to provide for his household. My wife’s support saw me through. It is a good thing that I asked her to go into trading and helped her financially otherwise I am not sure of how my family will be managing now.’’

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]