Though a successful coach, dad’s hobby is playing the talking drum — Adegboye Onigbinde’s son
Adeoye is a son of ex-Super Eagles coach, Chief Adegboye Onigbinde. He tells ARUKAINO UMUKORO about his father’s life and coaching career

Tell us about yourself.

I’m in my 40s. I am the third child of a former Super Eagles coach, Chief Adegboye Onigbinde. I attended Ansar-Udeen Primary School, Ibadan, Oyo State, for my primary school education. I later attended Ibadan Boys High School for secondary education and the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State where I studied physical and health education. I earned a masters’ degree in sports psychology from the University of Ibadan. Currently, I am one of the supervisors and coaches at the football academy at the Lead City University. I also attended the Camp B licence course as a coach about five years ago.

How was growing up with your father?

It was interesting. Dad is a friendly person. Due to the nature of his job, he travelled a lot. Despite that, he gave us his attention and good upbringing as a father should. We never lacked anything.

How close are you to your father?

We have a very close relationship. From my youth, I have been involved in sports. I was once a goalkeeper, and I have participated in three different sports; football, badminton and basketball. He has always given me his support at every stage of my life.

How did your father influence your career choice and that of your siblings?

I would say he did influence my choice of career. I remember when I was to register for the UTME, my initial decision was to study law, but along the line, after my discussion with him, he went to OAU to obtain the varsity’s diploma form for me. I always seek his advice on issues. When he travelled to Trinidad and Tobago, I went with him. I lived there for about one and a half years or so. I was the coach and sports psychologist at the club owned by a former FIFA Vice President Jack Warner. I would say I have been very much influenced by my father. Interestingly, out of all his children, I am the only one actively involved in sports. Most of his children are in the banking sector.

What are some of the values you learnt from your father?

One of the most important things I have learnt from him is not to force anyone to decide his course in life. He gave his children the liberty to make their career choices. I also learnt honesty from him. He is an honest man. He says it the way it is and does not care whose ox is gored.

Do you think his honesty and bluntness affected his tenure or position as Super Eagles coach then?

I think it did, when one looks at his coaching career up till now. When it comes to renowned coaches, coaching knowledge, skill, experience and technical knowhow or the technical aspect of football, one can hardly find his equal in Nigeria. Who can one compare him with in Nigeria? But I don’t think the football authorities recognise the likes of him enough and the input he make to shape the system. Nigeria being what it is, it’s about whom one knows, not always about what one knows.

Do you think your dad is under-appreciated by the Nigerian football authorities?

Without mincing words, I would say yes. For example, he was the one who developed the curriculum of the coaching course being run by the Nigeria Football Federation and all over Africa. He developed it for the Confederation of African Football and for FIFA. Yet, they don’t value him enough to take him on board.

What do you think can be done to appreciate his works?

My dad is almost 80 years old now. Age is not on his side. But we are praying that he would live longer. Despite that, the system can still tap into his wealth of knowledge and see which areas the football system in Nigeria can benefit from it. He is the one helping us to organise the football academy in Lead City University and it is waxing stronger.

Is he planning to write a book?

Yes, we even spoke about that some few weeks ago. There is also a plan for his biography to mark his 80th birthday.

Your dad coached the Super Eagles to the 2002 Korea/Japan World Cup and he used mostly home-based players during the tournament, which some people criticised him for especially after the Eagles crashed out. What did he say about that period and the criticism he got for fielding inexperienced players?

At that particular time, the national team was disintegrating. It was the same scenario in 1984, when he was called in to coach a new Eagles team after the previous set was disbanded and the team was in chaos. In Europe, the backbone of their teams is usually home-based players. More importantly, every national team must have a philosophy and the way they play; we don’t have that for our national team anymore.

Also, recall that the likes of Vincent Enyeama and Joseph Yobo, who were largely unknown, became stars after Korea/Japan 2002 and became the backbone of the Super Eagles players for more than eight years. Enyeama, Yobo and some other became famous and moved to bigger clubs in Europe after that. My dad was convinced that the Eagles team should be built around these home-based players.

As per the criticisms, he handled it very well. He had genuine reasons for his actions. He is not bothered about his critics. He is always focused when he decides to do something he believes in. He does not listen to side talks so that he does not get distracted.

It seems your dad was always the man to call to save the team in critical stages as Super Eagles coach in 1984 and 2002. Then, he was relieved of his job after the FIFA 2002 World Cup. Do you think if he was given more time, he would have built a world class team capable of winning the Africa Cup of Nations and reaching far at the FIFA senior world cup?

I have no doubt about that. Had it been he was given enough time to gather the players together, they would have gone a long way. The same thing happened after the Nations Cup in Cote D’Ivoire when he led the Eagles to winning the silver. He was not honoured. We all saw what happened to the team after then. It was the same thing in 2002, when he assembled those players in two months. How can one prepare for a FIFA senior world cup in less than two months, when it takes some other countries one to two years to prepare for the same tournament?

Does he regret not winning the Africa Nations Cup or not getting far in the FIFA World Cup?

He doesn’t regret anything at all, once he has satisfied his conscience. That is one thing about him.

What would you say is his most important feat as a football coach and technical instructor?

That is very difficult to say. I can mention some. In 1984, he became the first Nigerian/indigenous coach to handle the Super Eagles and he won a silver medal with the team. He was the first Nigerian to take the national team to the world cup in 2002. In his profession, the nations’ cup and the world cup are the two biggest tournaments a coach can aspire to. Also, he was a member of FIFA and CAF as technical instructor for over 20 years. I think he is an achiever.

What are some things Nigerians don’t know about your dad?

He is a very traditional man. He loves the Yoruba culture. He is a family man; he loves his family to the core. He is a high chief in our town in Modakeke, Osun State.

What are his likes and dislikes?

He hates people telling lies. He likes honesty. His hobby is drumming. He plays the talking drum well. From his name, “Igbin” means drum in Yoruba language, and “Onigbinde” means the person who plays the drum has come. I come from a family of drummers.

Asides from football, what other sports does he like?

He likes lawn tennis.

What is his favourite football team?

In Nigeria, it is Shooting Stars. Abroad, it is Arsenal. Dad likes Arsene Wenger because Wenger is a coach who grooms young players into stars from the grass-roots and that is dad’s philosophy. He also likes to develop young players.

Mention some players you dad groomed.

Some of them include the late Rashidi Yekini. He discovered Yekini when he was in UNTL and brought him back to Ibadan. There is also Ademola Adesina and others.

How does he react whenever he is angry?

He is a cool guy. One would hardly see him get angry. Instead, he would go into his room and relax. He would always tell us, “Don’t make a decision whenever you are angry.” When we were kids, I don’t recall him beating us, but we were scared of him. He usually communicated his feelings to us by facial expressions. And we understood it clearly.

How has his name opened doors for you?

His name has opened doors for me several times in Nigeria and abroad. He says one’s name is very important and one must try to protect one’s integrity. I would say his name, as well as my qualifications, helped me to get the coaching job in Trinidad and Tobago. I am also privileged to have met famous personalities through him, including Jack Warner, former governors and so on.

What is his view about having a foreign or indigenous coach for the Super Eagles?

He said the problem is not whether we have an indigenous coach for the Super Eagles, but how well trained and equipped they are for the job. He supports that the Eagles should have an indigenous coach but he said the person must be well trained for the job. How many top Nigerian coaches have the FIFA/CAF coaching licences?

What does he think about the current Super Eagles coach?

He believes he is doing his best.

What is his favourite drink and food?

He doesn’t drink alcohol. I would say his best food is rice.

What would your dad’s legacy be in the Nigerian football industry?

People would remember him as a coach who wants first-class development for football in Nigeria. He desires football development in the country.

What kind of person is he?

He is jovial and a fun person to be with. He loves to spend time with his family. Whenever he was around, he always spent time with his family. He does his best to satisfy everyone in his family. He is straightforward and does not believe in cutting corners. I remember when he came to visit me in 2002 when he was named Super Eagles coach to the World Cup; many people came to beg me to plead with him to take their players to the world cup. But he would always say, “Tell your players to come to the screening.” He doesn’t cut corners. That was a reason he had problems with some people who were only interested in money. He would tell them to do the job first and the money would come.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]