My wife lied about her name first time we met in UK — Oloye Lekan Alabi
Agba-Akin Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oloye Lekan Alabi, shares his fatherhood experience with OLUSHOLA RICKETTS

How would you describe fatherhood?

After marriage, couples, their families and well-wishers, naturally look forward to pregnancy and babies. We got married at the Saint John’s Wood Anglican Church, Hampstead in London, United Kingdom, on August 12, 1978.

Like all normal couples, on our return to Ibadan, Nigeria, we prayed for babies.

I still enjoy fatherhood because God gave me adorable, bright and well-mannered children.

When did you become a father?

I became a father on May 14, 1979. That first child, a son, celebrated his 40th birthday on Tuesday.

When my first child was born, I was quite prepared for fatherhood. Since the scan had revealed that we were having a male child, his name, Olayemi, was already in mind.

As a matter of fact, all my children bear ‘Ola’ like their father because we are from an aristocratic dynasty. I have great compassion for my children.

Would you say you married at an early age?

Let me reiterate that our marriage was predicted at our different homes and at different times. So, it will not be wrong to say our union was one of those marriages “made in heaven.” I married at age 28. I don’t think I married at an early or late age; I married at the right time.

Did you nurse any fears at the time you married?

I didn’t nurse any fears. After all, I underwent the normal route to marriage. I met a good woman and I was working as a reporter/presenter at the Nigerian Television Authority, Ibadan, Oyo State.

How did you meet your wife?

As predicted in mysterious circumstances, we met in 1977 as students when she visited her friend and schoolmate at Pitman’s College, London, the late Mrs Anne Adetutu (nee Olanipekun). Adetutu was my co-tenant at 82, Prince George Road, Stoke Newington, London.

Adetutu was not at home, but as a gentleman that I have always been, I attended to the lady who later became my wife. She kept pressing the entrance doorbell but we ignored the unknown visitor because another male co-tenant was hosting his birthday. Later, an inner voice told me to answer the bell, which I did.

I told her to join us at the ongoing party as her friend was not at home. She turned down my offer and told me to inform Adetutu of her visit before slamming the door on my face. She even gave me the false name of Miss Tokunbo Williams, instead of Tokunbo Laditan. Her friend corrected me when I delivered the message.

READ ALSO: Arnold Schwarzenegger attacked in South Africa

During her second visit, we connected better and the rest is history. She said she gave a fake name to ward off Nigerian boys in London, who were fond of playing on the intelligence of unwary ladies.

How many children are you blessed with?

In our culture, we don’t count or disclose the number of our children. However, I will say God has blessed me with adorable men and women.

Is any of your children following in your footsteps?

As a journalist/public relations’ executive, none of them has taken after me. Three of my children are lawyers, while the last child read sociology. But, if it is on good conduct, elegance, charity and civility, they are all on the same page with me.

What do you regard as your greatest challenge as a father?

While my children were younger, particularly my two ladies, they were vulnerable. But thanks to their no-nonsense mother, who made sure they didn’t go astray.

Did you use the cane on your children?

I beat two of my children once and they never repeated the offence again. I believe corrections of offenders, especially children, are better done through admonitions, rather than beating or cursing them.

How did you reward your children whenever they impressed you?

I rewarded and still reward them with words of commendations and modest sums/gifts. I do the same to my grandchildren too.

What did you learn from your father that has helped you?

I learnt to trust in God, work hard, care for the family, educate and train the children to be independent adults.

How do you describe your father?

My beloved father, the late Pa AbdulRahim Alabi, was pious, loving, neat, hardworking, adventurous, honest, liberal and humourous. He was a real aristocrat who married pretty and cultured women. He took great care of his parents and relations.

Are you fulfilled?

As I stated earlier, I am running my life with a long-predicted chart. With the grace of God and a habit of moderation in all things, I have been living a life of contentment and happiness. I pray that God continue to lead me in the right directions.

What do you do at the moment?

I am the fourth senior traditional chief in my family. I am the Agba-Akin Balogun of Ibadanland. I was, from youth, schooled in the unique and admirable Ibadan Traditional Chieftaincy System. Life as a traditional chief in Ibadan has been very fulfilling.

Apart from performing my traditional functions assigned to me by the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji, I am a regular public affairs’ analyst, a syndicated columnist and a motivational speaker.

How was your experience working for the old Oyo State Government?

I enjoyed and still savour tremendously my tenure as the press secretary to four former governors (one civilian and three military governors) of the old Oyo State from 1983 to 1989. They were the late Chief Bola Ige, Major-General Oladayo Popoola, Brigadier-General Adetunji Olurin and the late Brigadier-General Sasaenia Oresanya.

Working with them afforded me the opportunities to see how government policies for human and capital development were formulated and implemented.

Is what you are doing now all you wanted as a child?

Yes, this is all I wanted as a child. My father was a driver/salesman for Daily Times of Nigeria Limited and my paternal grandmother, the late Mama Odunola Alabi, was the women’s leader of the National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons in Ibadan under the leadership of Adegoke Adelabu. Seeing all they did gave me the focus and ambition of public service. I am now living my dreams.

”Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]