I assisted my wife to take deliveries of two of our kids – Ex-VC, Crawford varsity
A former Vice-Chancellor, Crawford University, Igbesa, Ogun State, Prof. Samson Ayanlaja, talks about his fatherhood journey with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN

How would you describe fatherhood?

Fatherhood means being a daddy at home; somebody that guides the children both males and females to the path of rectitude and proper behaviour. When they are still in school, helping them to do their homework, leading them to church, telling them in love what is good and not good, smacking or flogging them with the cane if need be and crying with them when they weep.

I remember when my daughter was in secondary school. She did something that I didn’t like and she was reported. I brought her home, took a cane and beat her. When she started crying, I cried too. By the time she saw me cry, she became broken. She wept and told me not to cry again.

A father is somebody the children should have confidence in. I used to tell my children, when they go out and get an injury, they shouldn’t hide it from me. They should tell me, ‘Daddy I went to where you told me not to go to; now, I have injured myself’. I would still help them. Now that they are grown up and in different locations, I still call them to ask if they are saving money or spending it all. Especially my son, who is not married, I make sure I encourage them. I help and I follow up on them.

Do you also believe canning is a way of correcting a child?

Yes, because I follow the Bible. The Bible says, “Whoever spares the rod hates his son, but he who loves him is diligent to discipline him.” There is also a Yoruba proverb that says, “Agba ti o kehun soro, a ketan sare.” Roughly translated, it means if you don’t discipline a child when he or she is young, when they grow old, you won’t be able to correct them again.

When did you become a father?

I got married when I was 31 and by then, I already had a PhD.

Do you think you were a bit late at that age?

No, I don’t think so. For a man, it is okay. If it’s a woman, one might say so but for a man, 31 is still cool.

How prepared were you then?

I was well prepared by then, financially with a PhD, I was okay. I went to the United Kingdom for my PhD. I got a job with Cocoa Research Institute and the institution sent me to the UK with full scholarship and paid my full salary in Nigeria which allowed me to cater for my aged mother without worrying. If I wanted to marry before then, I was okay. At 27, I was emotionally and financially ready but waited because I started PhD and completed it at 31.

How many children are you blessed with?

I was blessed with three but I lost one. My first two children were boys but I lost the second one. I have two children; a son and a daughter.

Did you have a preferred gender before the birth of your first child?

I was anxious to know the child’s gender. I had a son and we named him Tayo.

Have you ever been in the labour room with your wife to witness the birth of any of your children?

I singlehandedly took delivery of two of my children at home. There were people around to help us with the birth of the first child.

Do you have a medical background or how did you do that?

I trusted in God and my wife is a nurse. Despite being in labour, she still gave me instructions on what to do. She told me to bring one thing or the other and we were able to pull through. For the second child, we were living in one village called Ochaja after crossing River Niger. I was posted there by the Cocoa Research Institute. When she went into labour around 5am, we didn’t have to rush anywhere. We only put on the generator. It took two hours and our baby came out. My wife was even the one who cut the umbilical cord herself.

For the birth of the girl, I was also alone. She was telling me to get the mucus out, lying on her back and asking me, “Is the baby almost out? Is the baby coming out with the hand or head? I told her it was with the head. When the baby was close, she told me not to touch the baby that she would change position by herself.

The baby came out neat and I laid her on the couch looking so beautiful. I am grateful to God for His help. Out of my three children, I was the midwife for two of them without any problem to the glory of God.

How did you feel when you held your first child?

I felt great, wonderful and grateful to God, especially for my fist son. He looked like I reincarnated when I looked at him. Even the day he came out, he was like a miniature me.

Tell us about your father.

My father loved me and pushed me to work hard but unfortunately, I lost him when I was 10. My mother was a trader and doing well financially too, but immediately my father died, it crashed her. I have two elder brothers and a sister.

The story changed for us and we had to move from where we lived to the house of my maternal grandfather. I miraculously entered secondary school. My stepfather trained me for the first year, and then backed out. My elder brother did modern school, started working and trained me from the small salary he was earning and supported me throughout secondary school.

I entered for entrance exam and had only O Level; I needed to get an A Level or prelim. I entered and did prelim; I took the exam and passed. I paid acceptance fee and didn’t have enough money to pay for accommodation. I trekked a far distance throughout – from Agbowo to the University to Ibadan to and fro throughout my first semester.

I was living with a relative then at Agbowo. After the first semester, I met with some of my classmates and they allowed me to stay with them. I passed my exam and proceeded to the next semester. I was like that till my final year when I got the Federal Government scholarship that covered me. My aunt and brother helped me through university before then.

How was it coping without a father figure or mentor?

I didn’t really have any but my brother stood for me as a father. I never had that emotional feeling of having a father.

Some people, who lost their fathers early in life, usually over pamper their children. Are you like that too?

I told you how I beat my girl for wrongdoing. I wouldn’t say I over pampered my children but I love them. Sometimes, my wife complained that I was soft on them. I remember that I would pick the cane and hit the ground instead of beating them and they would run away. I would them tell them not to repeat what they did again.

What lessons do you want your children to learn from you as they move on in life?

One of the things that I will want my children to emulate is hard work. I tell them they need to work hard as they see me working and doing things. Also, I tell them to value integrity and not steal anybody’s property. I also want them to always attend Sunday school because I trained them to do that.

How do you celebrate your children when they make you proud?

I shower praises on them. Also, I celebrate their birthdays for them. It is not usually an eleborate celebration, we only mark their birthdays for them.

Do you do house chores?

My major chores are within the surroundings. I have a garden which I try to maintain the flowers, trees, snail cage and fish pond there. I ensure that the place is neat. My objective is that when people enter my compound; they should feel as if they entered the Garden of Eden.

I do all the repairs in the house. I do the electrical, carpentry, mechanical and plumbing works in the house.

How do you combine your work with your roles as a husband and father?

It takes the grace of God. Thankfully, when I became a vice-chancellor, my children were grown up and I remember that I had to ask for their permission before I took the job. But I try as much as possible to be there for them. I didn’t let the job take me away from my family, although my children were not so much in the country then.

Did you discuss relationship with your children?

On choice of spouse, my daughter, Sharon, leaned on me more than her brother. She got married last year November. Before then, whenever somebody came around, she would call me to seek my opinion on the person.

Once I prayed and my mind didn’t accept the person, I would tell her and she would understand. She would call me from Canada to explain things to me because she was almost 30 then. She would be crying and I would be crying as well. Thankfully, somehow, God connected her and her husband who was in London.

People say faith-based universities are supposed to be cheaper. Why are they more expensive than public ones?

Education itself is expensive. There is no free lunch anywhere. When I was the vice-chancellor of Crawford University, I paid N2million on fuel every month, because if there was no light, we wouldn’t be able to provide water for the students. We compel them to behave properly because we desire to produce another generation of workers with changed psyche to behave and think normally. You don’t steal public fund and think it is national cake.

We want to delete all forms of corruption before they finish school so that when they enter into any office, we can be sure that the office is safe. If they enter into a bank, we can be sure that the bank’s strongroom is safe.

There is no strike in faith-based schools and we pay salaries promptly. We pay for electricity, diesel, have a standard laboratory with all the equipment and the rest. We pay so much to provide comfort to the students. In faith-based schools, comfort is normal but in all public universities, comfort is a luxury. There is a bill to pay for comfort.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]