We held house parties for our kids’ graduations – Prof. Aluko
The pioneer Vice-Chancellor, Federal University, Otuoke, Bayelsa State, Prof. Bolaji Aluko, shares his fatherhood experience with SIMON UTEBOR

How would you describe fatherhood?

For me, fatherhood brings with it a fulfilling, exciting and humbling experience.

When did you become a father?

I became a father on March 17, 1982, over 37 years ago. I gave birth to my first child, a son, at less than two weeks to (becoming) 27 years.

Would you say you married at the right time?

I won’t say I married at the right time or not but all I can say is that I married at God’s time. That for me is the most important.

What fear did you entertain before becoming a father?

I did not entertain any fear whatsoever before dabbling into marriage. I must say that my marriage was well planned and I am happy I married when I did.

As a busy scholar/academic, how do you create time for your family?

My children are all grown now, with the last, a daughter, being 25 years old. I manage my family with my wife and God’s grace; otherwise it would be an almost impossible task.

How many children do you have?

We are blessed with five wonderful children.

During the birth of any of your children, were you in the labour room with your wife?

Yes, I accompanied my wife to the labour room during the birth of all the five of them. But I will state that the development was with a decreasing trepidation from the first to the last child.

How do you discipline your children when they misbehave?

They have all grown now with the last child being 25 years. I disciplined my children with a stern look, a raised hand which never came down, and a strong counsel. Through such mode of discipline, we had wonderful children who behaved themselves appropriately.

What has your experience as a father taught you?

My experience as a father has taught me that it is indeed a blessing to be a parent. It has also taught me that fatherhood is a major responsibility to be a male guiding force in a home.

What are the values you learnt from your own father which are helping you in parenting?

One of the core values I learnt from my father is sacrifice. As a father, there is the imperative need to make sacrifices for one’s family in order to raise wonderful children and family alike.

I also learnt from my own father that friendship with the children, and love and respect for wife and mother of the children are very important in parenting and children’s upbringing. It is my considered views that when a father imbibes those wonderful attributes, he will no doubt raise enviable children.

As an academic, do you wish any of your children follow in your professional career?

I must say I have no such special wish for my children to follow in my professional path. I always advocate the principle that children should be allowed to follow their own chosen careers. As for my children, they should and are following their self-chosen careers.

What is the relationship between you and your family like?

My family and I have a very cordial and wonderful relationship.

Have you received any cherished gifts from your children?

I have received several gifts from my children, particularly during Christmas. They are always looking for the latest techie gizmos to give to me. I am grateful for their outpouring of love towards me.

How do your children relate with you and how did you bring them up?

My children relate with me very well. Our relationship is warm and cordial. It is a kind of relationship one will be proud of. On our own part as their parents, we brought them up much in the same manner as we their parents were brought up. They were brought up in a flexibly strict but lovingly Christian manner.

How did you resolve disagreement with your wife?

In case there is disagreement between me and my wife which seldom happens, all we do is to talk things over so that the guilty one will apologise. Besides, we ensure that there is good communication to put the disagreement behind us. In marital relationship, communication plays significant roles. In fact, communication is key to fruitful union of husband and wife. However, I will admit that disagreement is not always easy to handle, but with understanding, cooperation and communication, all will be well and good.

How do you celebrate your children when they make you proud?

When my children make us proud, we celebrate them well. Such celebrations, we have discovered, will motivate them to achieve greater successes.

For us, as part of the ways to give them a pat on the back and encourage them to strive for more successes, we have had house parties for all their 16 graduations since primary school. We, as well, organise dinners for them at restaurants for their birthdays and other milestones they achieve that make us proud.

Do you take your children out for bonding?

Bonding is very important in family unity. As a family, we take it seriously. Certainly, we go out for bonding as often as circumstances permit.

How are your children faring now?

My children are all doing well. All of them have received one, two or three university degrees, and they are pursuing careers of their choices.

You were in the United States of America before your appointment as the pioneer vice-chancellor of the Federal University, Otuoke, Bayelsa State. Did that appointment affect your relationship with your family?

The appointment certainly brought about periodic separation from my family. I must say it took a psychological and sociological toll, not to talk of financial toll.

What advice do you have for young couples?

My candid advice is that young couples should find out the languages of love of each other early. This is because how each one expects the other to express love can be radically different. They should make themselves important to each other before everything or everybody else.

Couples should also not forget the importance of prayers in ensuring fruitful marital relationships. To that extent, I advise couples to pray and worship together. Marriage is an institution created by God, hence there is the need for them to be close to God in prayer and worship. There is a refrain that says that family that prays together stays together.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]