When your partner doesn’t share common interests
Having a common interest with your partner can be fun, especially because they always give you pleasant memories. However, it can be really annoying when your spouse does not share a common interest with you. Here are a few tips to help you tackle this issue

Accept that opposites attract

Remember you didn’t marry this person because they’re exactly like you. As humans, we are often drawn to people with different interests and values because they are interesting and exciting to us. If you start by appreciating the fact that you and your partner are different, you’ll have more success at helping each other appreciate those differences.

Explore new things together

Just because you both have hobbies and interests that you love doesn’t mean you can’t find new ones to bond over together. For example, if neither of you is outgoing, try visiting the beach or park together. By taking the time to find something you both love, you’ll have a common bonding point. Note that if you’re both open to trying new things together, you’ll be able to be that much more understanding when each of you puts time and energy into the things you love individually.

Tell them why you love your interests

Tell your partner why you enjoy the things you enjoy but with the understanding that they might not enjoy those things as much as you do. For instance, if your partner thinks that your love for make-up is frivolous, you might say that you love it because it allows you to explore different versions of yourself. By articulating the underlying reasons behind your love for sports, baking, dancing or whatever it is that you fancy— you will allow your partner to gain a new level of understanding for it.

Compromise

According to www.brit.com, compromise is necessary for all relationships to grow. Participating in an activity that your spouse enjoys shows them that you care for them and respect their interests. It might sound simple but if you extend your compromise beyond just talking about it and take the time to participate in activities your partner likes, you’ll show them that you support their interests. If your partner loves reading but you never have time to open a book, listen to an audio book on your way to work, so you guys can talk about it together.

Go on dates

Remember to always spice things up in your relationship by acting like you’re courting your partner over again. Sometimes, married people make the mistake of not “wooing” their partner again to keep the vibe. So, dress up a bit for your special one. Be polite and open doors. Compliment them. Hold their hands, cuddle and steal kisses. Remember to protect your date night from conflict by cutting off any arguments and agreeing to talk about the issue at a later time.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]