Dealing with a talkative partner
When a partner is talkative, this may not go down well with the other person. Learn how to manage things so they don’t go out of hand

Having an expressive partner can be interesting and fun but when your partner is a talkative, it can be disturbing, burdensome and overbearing. Their excessive talking may drive you crazy, as well as make it impossible to concentrate or bond with your partner. You may start to dread going home because you fear that you will get bored, having to cope with their witty conversation when you hope to come home and relax.

Here are some ways to analyse why your partner talks so much:

He or she is an extrovert

Some people like silence more whereas some would like to keep talking all the time. Talking seems to keep them energised and happy. But introverts feel tired when they have to talk too much or interact with others for long. So, if your partner talks always, he or she could be an extrovert.

Is your partner narcissistic?

A narcissistic person is one who likes thinking very highly of themselves, needing admiration, believing others are inferior and lacking empathy for others.

If your partner spends most of the time talking about self, then she or he could be a narcissist. Some people have the habit of imagining themselves as the centre of the universe. They tend to make themselves the main subject of all conversations.

Your partner is articulate

Some people posses the art of speaking. They can choose the right words and form beautiful sentences. Such people may seem to talk more than average people as they do want to showcase their skills.

Is that insecurity?

Some people who have insecurity and hidden fears tend to mask their actual feelings by distracting themselves talking to others.

Some people talk because they crave attention. She would need more from you or more activities with friends and family in situations that give her a feeling of connection, involvement, and importance–the feeling of being needed.

Is it stress?

Some people have the tendency to vent out their stress by constantly talking to others about their problems. But they do it only when they are undergoing stress.

Here are some tips on how to deal with talkative partners

Firstly, identify the reason why your partner talks too much. Then, see whether your partner does it only with you or with everybody.

If your partner talks too much with everyone, then he or she may need some therapy. Also, when someone is talking too much when you are busy, you can always tell them that you don’t have time to listen. It is not rude on your part to openly talk about your inconveniences

Communicate with your partner. In a loving way, tell him that you need a little quiet zone from time to time. Agree about that. And keep on living a good life together. Communication is a huge aspect of any relationship. The ability to have an important conversation with your partner in a calm manner is the definition of lasting togetherness.

Get them engaged in activities. If he or she is talking about things just to fill the silence, then he or she is probably bored or uncomfortable with a lack of mental stimulation. Play games that incorporate a lot of thinking or strategy to give them the opportunity to achieve a goal. But make sure it’s a game he or she would enjoy playing.

Don’t shout the partner down when he or she starts the habit, else it will lead to more problems. You can also choose not to respond. This will make the talkative partner to check him or herself because you are not responding

Teach your partner to ask more questions and get more comfortable with having silence in between words. Although he or she may feel uncomfortable experiencing silent gaps in conversations (this is common for talkers), they will be required to befriend the quiet in order to create more openings for you to speak.

Be distractingly non-serious. Experts advise that you don’t engage overbearing talkers in serious conversation. Helping the person is a very delicate issue. You don’t want to offend and at the same time you need to assist. Just starve the partner of quality information. Then, gradually engage the spouse to fill spare time. If it is a chronic case, let your partner know the damage the talkativeness is causing.

Interrupt them. Even if someone has a reputation for being a talker, it doesn’t mean the person isn’t aware that they’re overbearing. This is the old ‘give them an inch and they’ll take a mile’ principle. If you let them establish a relationship where they’re talking at you, it only grows into a habit. Don’t be afraid to interrupt.

Show empathy. Sometimes we just want to be understood. Most people don’t spill their life history to anyone who listens. They tend to choose people they like and trust. One of the five ‘love languages’ is ‘words of affirmation.’ If this is that person’s primary love language, then they may be just looking for some empathy. This can be particularly important after a traumatic or stressful experience.

”Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]