Should couples disclose their incomes to one another
TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN writes about the merits and demerits of disclosing one’s income to one’s partner

Issue of finance is one of the things lovebirds should sort out well as they prepare to settle down to marital life.

Examining the issue of finances in marriage, a creative director, Mr. Korede Judah, said a family should consider finances based on set goals. He stated that it was usually not a straightforward thing.

“What works in my family may not necessarily be what works in another person’s home. In my family, we have a single purse. That is, we all bring home our income and discuss the needs of the home.

“I can’t hide my finances from my wife and my wife doesn’t hide hers from me. We plan together on how we will use our finances for the month. At the end, my money is not my money and my wife’s is not hers. The money is always our money,” he stated.

The father of two said such joint financial decision made them accountable to each other, noting that he was of the view that there could be a room to cheat the day he stopped telling his wife his finances.

He stated, “Because there may be a room of me spending my money how I like. For me, the best thing is to be open to my partner about my salary and every other money that comes my way.”

Supporting Judah’s position, Dr. Juwon Jolaosho, said he believed that openness to his partner, by disclosing his income, was part of the marital package.

Jolaosho added, “It is mandatory that my partner asks and knows my income because she is my partner, confidant, co-planner and help meet. If she does not know, then, I have denied her the pleasure of performing her roles and responsibilities in my life.

“If she does not know, how will she motivate me to do more, apply for new jobs, make some financial decisions, advise me on spending and investments. I believe we should learn to be open to our partners. If not, why do you have business being partners?”

Like the duo, a bank worker, Mrs Bunmi Fadeyi, also said one should not hide one’s income from one’s partner as doing so was part of the tenets of good marriage.

She said, “I let my husband know my income even as a salary earner. We don’t hide it from each other when we get promoted or get salary increment. It is my responsibility as a wife to know; so it is for my husband. It helps us to plan on capital project and also the children fees.”

Differing on the issue a bit, a marketer with a leading technology firm, Mr. Oluwaseyi Oseni, told SUNDAY PUNCH that he told his wife his salary but he didn’t disclose the commission and freebies attached to the job.

He said, “My wife has always known my earnings. However, I try to keep away information on commissions. I notice that once my wife knows I have extra cash, impromptu demands arise. Women can be demanding; that is my way of playing safe.”

On her part, a teacher, Mrs Chika Okafor, told our correspondent that it depended on the personalities involved in a marriage.

According to her, she understands her husband well and disclosing her salary to him is not a wise decision to maintain peace in the home.

She said, “I have been married for some years now. My first child is in JSS3 but I have never disclosed my actual salary to my husband because he is a typical African man. Most of African men like to be bossy and controlling because of their ego. They may feel slighted or inferior if they discover that their wives earn more than they do and may think that the woman will use it against them in future.

“It is better for the wife to say she earns less than her actual salary because it will make the man feel more important. I don’t allow my husband to know my actual salary. I help in whatever way I can.”

Another wife, Mrs Nneka Frank, said she and her husband never made an issue out of what each other earned.

She added, “To be honest, I don’t really care about how much my husband earns as long as the bills are paid. If he is unable to meet obligations, I can assist once in a while. What he earns is up to him. Obviously, it’s wrong to lie. If your spouse asks, tell him or her how much you earn. Both parties should have a fair idea of what their partner earns.”

For 42-year-old Ganiyu Tomiwa, as long as he is able to pay the bills, his income shouldn’t be his wife’s business.

He told our correspondent that his responsibility was to provide for his family and not to report his finances to his wife.

He said, “I pick up the bill and take care of my wife too despite the fact that she also has her business. What she does with her money I don’t care. My own is to sort out everything whether I earn N300, this week or a million next week is not my wife’s business.

“I don’t disclose my income to her. When I have, I give without questioning but when I begin to cancel some things or postpone some of them, she also understands that I don’t have. That is what works in my family.”

Commenting on the issue, a marriage counsellor and relationship coach, Mrs Olabisi Ola-Soetan, identified openness and communication as basic ingredients in marriage.

She said, “Openness and communication in marriage or relationship is what makes a relationship work. You can’t be open on some things and keep secrets on other issues. One of the things that can quickly tear a family apart is money. It is wise to be open to one’s partner over such issue.”

She explained that though keeping financial matters secret could be hinged on insecurity or one’s partner’s extravagance, such issue should be dealt with separately.

Ola-Soetan stated, “I understand that there might be cases of insecurity, especially if the man earns below what is expected or less than his partner but that should not be a reason one should keep secrets from one’s partner.

“There is also the case of excessive spending. There were cases where couples told me that their partners spend lavishly or tend to demand so much when they know how much they earn.

“In such a situation, what I will advise is that they deal with the cause of the matter first. Keeping one’s finances a secret from one’s spouse is not the best decision to take. Whenever there is a secret in a relationship, such won’t be able to stand whenever there is a storm.”

”Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]