Dealing with apathy in your relationship
Most relationships go through a phase where couples lose interest, enthusiasm or concern about each other, especially when they settle into a comfortable routine. Here are a few tips on how to deal with this issue

Determine the underlying issue

When you determine the underlying issue, you will be able to deal better with it. For instance, if your partner is becoming complacent, maybe it’s time to light a fire in your relationship again, or maybe it’s simply time to get off the couch and chase your dreams. You have to challenge your feelings of indifference and passivity with action.

Talk to your partner

No matter how angry you are, you should find a way to let you partner know how you feel about their attitude because ignoring it will not make it go away. Tell your partner that their behaviour is hurting your relationship but be careful not to attack him or her. Also, talk about some of your own weakness that you believe might have contributed to the situation and find a working solution for the two of you.

Look at things from your partner’s perceptive

You may be convinced that your own perception of reality is the correct one. But remember it keeps you locked inside your head. Have in mind that you should equally be responsible for your partner’s attitude. So, consider looking at things from your partner’s perceptive. Think of your partner as simply being him/herself, just as you are. Envision yourself from your partner’s viewpoint, without feeling you have to change your own. When you do that, it will make you cut some slacks for your partner.

Encourage your partner to become engaging

By encouraging your partner to become more interactive with you, you will be changing the way you have been dealing with his or her apathy. So, be confident in yourself, in your relationship and establish a sense of independence. Also, remember that taking these actions may help your partner think about what he or she is taking for granted in the relationship.

Enjoy your partner’s company

According to oureverydaylife.com, as couples, remember to laugh and have fun together. Watch funny movies, do an activity together that you enjoy and try to help your partner remember why he or she fell in love with you. With time and effort, apathy in a relationship can be conquered.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]