Fatherhood has taught me not to take rash decisions –Eradiri
Former President, Ijaw Youth Council Worldwide, and current Commissioner for Youths Development, Bayelsa State, Mr Udengs Eradiri, tells SIMON UTEBOR what fatherhood has taught him

How would you describe fatherhood?

My understanding of fatherhood is when a man starts to be responsible for a woman, begins to raise children and provides the necessary guide, mentors and protects his family.

When did you marry?

I married in 2010.

Would you say you married at the right time?

Yes, I will say that I married appropriately.

What fear did you nurse before becoming a father?

By the time I actually made up my mind to marry, I was already getting too old hence I was looking forward to being a father.

You have been very active in Niger Delta struggle culminating in you becoming first, the secretary-general, and later the President of Ijaw Youth Council Worldwide. During those periods, how were you able to manage your duties and obligations as a father?

I became a father just as I was leaving as secretary-general of the umbrella body of Ijaw youths, the Ijaw Youth Council Worldwide. During that period, I had ample time to do my job as a father.

But as the President of IYC, it was a bit challenging as I had to travel often, particularly from Bayelsa to Abuja where my family resides to fill the gap.

I made sure I called my family on the phone regularly to know what was going on and how they were faring in my absence as I usually visited them then during weekends. Through such phone communication, which I never missed on a daily basis, I talked to my kids. If they misbehaved in my absence, I scolded them and made them to understand that it was not good to be unruly to their mother and their elders. That actually stuck to their consciousness as they always promised to be of good behaviour. Such subtle reprimand, when they acted up, actually made them to sit up. However, whenever I am around, I spend time with them to know them well and for proper bonding as a family.

During the birth of any of your children, did you accompany your wife to the labour room?

Yes, I was always in the theatre during my children’s birth. In fact, I am always the second person to carry my children after their birth.

How do you discipline your children when they misbehave?

Whenever my children misbehaved or behaved in an unacceptable manner, I scold them and sometimes I flog them depending on the severity of the offence committed.

What has your experience as a father taught you?

Fatherhood has taught me to be patient, tolerant and not to take rash decisions. With such experience, I listen to my kids and wife patiently in order to understand them better. This is a useful lesson that has aided me greatly in parenting.

What are the values you imbibed from your own parents that are helping you in parenting?

The values I learnt from my own parents that are actually helping me, in addition to my own style of parenting, is to exhibit the highest degree of love and care for my family. When these principles are applied in children’s upbringing, they will no doubt grow to be good and wonderful children. Showing one’s children parental love and care is of utmost importance.

As an engineer, do you wish any of your children follow in your professional path?

I would have loved my children to follow in my professional path but I won’t force them to do so. Instead, I will let them have the platitude to choose whatever they desire to be in future.

What is the relationship between you and your family like?

My family and I are very close. We are a close knit family.

Have you received any gifts from your children?

Yes, my children have had cause to offer me gifts which I cherish from the bottom of my heart. Though they are still young, they have given me some wonderful gifts that made me awe-struck. Some of the gifts they have given me include hand-made cards which I cherish very much. Sometimes, I wonder in disbelief that they can give me such remarkable gifts. For me, it is the substance they have given in their ages and it tells me that when they grow up, they won’t be told what to do. My joy knows no bounds each time they masterfully craft such hand-made cards and present them to me as gifts.

How do your children relate with you?

My children love me very well and I also love them very much. I must say without mincing words that we have a lovely and cordial relationship.

How do you resolve disagreement with your wife?

If peradventure I have disagreements with my wife, we don’t allow such to linger, we simply talk it over. The guilty person will apologise and life goes on. Such disagreement does not result in keeping malice or a breakdown in communication.

Do you usually involve third party in the resolution of disagreements?

No. We don’t involve third party. From experience, I have found that third party interference in marital squabble does not actually help matter. Instead, it will aggravate the matter.

How do you celebrate your children when they make you proud?

I give them gifts whenever they make me proud.

You are currently the commissioner for youths and social development in Bayelsa State. How do you combine your duty with your children’s upbringing?

My wife is marvellous in covering for me and I make sure I keep up communication when I am not physically around.

How are your children faring now?

As usual, they know I am not always around; so, they look forward to my return weekly to Abuja, mostly weekends. We spend holidays together.

Where do you take your family to for bonding?

For bonding, we usually go shopping, site-seeing or playing games together.

What advice do you have for new couples?

My advice for new couples is for them to always talk things over, be truthful to one another and love one another. If their relationship is founded on those pillars, it will surely endure. But a situation where a couple are not truthful to each other and love does not exist, the marriage will have some issues. Besides, if there is any disagreement, there must be room for communication to enable them to talk things over and move ahead with the relationship.

What are the principles that guide you in parenting?

My guiding principles in parenting are love, care, communication, fairness and firmness among others. With those principles, parenting can be wonderful and exciting.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]