Dad quit smoking day he was appointed director-general — Son of NTA DG
Mahmood is the first son of the Director-General, Nigerian Television Authority, Yakubu Mohammed. He talks about his father with ARMSTRONG BAKAM

Tell us more about yourself.

We are four children in the family – three boys and one girl. My mother is Hajiya Sa’adatu.

I did my primary education in Jos, Plateau State. For secondary, I attended Command Secondary School, Kaduna, and later the Federal Polytechnic, Bauchi, where I did both National Diploma and Higher National Diploma.

I also attended several courses in line with my profession. I like sports. In fact, I am a sports journalist. Some of my hobbies are watching and playing football, badminton, etc. I am married with two children.

Is any of your siblings pursuing career in broadcasting?

I am the only one in the media. I also work with the NTA Bauchi. I am a principal reporter.

Did your father encourage you to follow in his career path?

Yes, my father was the person that really motivated me to join the media because when I was growing up, I saw him presenting news and current affairs on the television.

Sometimes, if I was on break, and he was going to the office, mostly in the evenings, for the news casting, he usually took me along with him to see how they did things.

If I didn’t go to the office with him, he would come home with the news bulletin and give it to me. Then, I would sit before him to read it out to him. Wherever I made a mistake, he would correct me. With that, gradually I started developing interest in journalism and today, I am a proud journalist.

How long have you been working with the NTA?

I started working with the NTA in 2009. Thank God, the journey has been good so far. Today, like I said earlier, I am a principal reporter. If you look at it from that time till now, I am now close to the managerial level in Bauchi even though I started my career in Lagos.

What memories can you recall growing up with your father?

There are lots of memories. Like I said earlier, he used to take me to his office to see how things were done and if I didn’t go with him, he would bring home the bulletin for me to read. We watched football together and went shopping. My father is the best father there is and the best ever would be.

He is a humble and straightforward person. I learnt many things from him – humility, straightforwardness and he taught me never to undermine anybody. Also, he taught me to respect everybody no matter their class or status.

I always remember something that happened in 1997. The father of one of our home helps visited our house. Ordinarily, if it were to be some people, they would tell him to stay outside or elsewhere. But he welcomed the man well and they both ate together. That shows how simple he is. Despite his simplicity, he is a strict person in the sense that with him, there is a time for everything. When it’s time for work, one will work and if it’s time for play, one will play.

How does your father discipline any of his children who misbehaved?

I can’t remember a moment that my father raised his hands to beat or slap me. He’s one person that if one goes wrong, he sits down one down to advise one on what one did wrong. But, if after that, one continues with such an act, he will deprive that child of what he or she likes most.

As you know, if kids are attached to something and one deprives them of that thing, it will make them sad. That has helped in moulding and shaping our lives.

Tell us about your siblings.

I have three siblings. My immediate younger brother is Ismail. He works with the Industrial Training Fund. His immediate younger sister, the only girl in the family, is married with two kids. Then our last born, Ibrahim, is with our parents in Abuja.

What is it like being the first son?

There are many experiences. Out of my father’s busy schedules, he always created time for his family. I remember when we were in Jos, he would take us out for shopping and to wildlife park.

In fact, whenever he was at home, we chat, eat, play and do many things together. He is such a person that takes good care of his family. His family is one of the first priorities in life.

How does your father like to relax?

He relaxes by reading and watching sports in particular. In fact, he’s a Manchester United fan. He visits old-time friends, but he always tries to spend more time with his family because he believes that giving his family the much needed time will unite them.

What kind of father is he?

I would say he is humble, straightforward person and down-to-earth.

What did your father tell you about his childhood?

My father is the first graduate in his family and he is from an extended family. I remember he used to tell us that when he was growing up, early in the morning, after the morning devotion, he would do some house chores. Sometimes, he hawked before going to school. Back then, his father’s house was at Anglo-Jos but his secondary school, St. Mulumba’s College, was along Yakubu Gowon Way. Imagine the distance, but he went through it all to go to school.

At a point, because of his commitment and hard work, and as a brilliant pupil, the college, owned by a Catholic School, bought a bicycle for him. That eased his going to school.

What challenges did he face in the early years of his career?

As you know, every human being faces challenges in life but it all depends on how one manages it. He had several challenges and I remember when he was transferred to Kano from Bauchi. Then, he was a senior general manager and the other person in Kano was his junior and the general manager. But because that person had a godfather, they cancelled the transfer and asked him to go to another place. I believe he passed through many other challenges before getting to where he is today.

What values did you learn from him?

I have learnt a lot from him. I have learnt that whatever one is doing, one should do it to the best of one’s ability. That one should not play with one’s job and one should not give anybody any reason to complain about one. One should be oneself and be humble.

I have also learnt that one should never look down on people and whatever it is that is not one’s own, one should not touch it and one should take one’s studies seriously. Always remain committed to whatever is right and avoid getting into trouble. These are some of the values I learnt from my father.

How does his name open doors for you when people know you are his child?

In fact, countless times! When I was in Lagos, we had to go to Port Harcourt for an official assignment. On getting there, we met with the person we were supposed to meet at NTA Port Harcourt and we got talking on how we would do the assignment. The person we met – an assistant director, told us that if not for the person that signed the letter, he wouldn’t have accepted to carry on with that assignment. It was my father that signed the letter. The man started narrating his encounter with my father and he said a lot of good things about him.

After the whole thing, we finished discussing how we would go about the assignment. The leader of our delegation then introduced me properly to the man. Immediately, the man stood up from his chair and hugged me. There are many instances when people realised that I am his son, they would welcome and treat me specially and differently and become friendly and accommodating.

Even former Governor Isa Yuguda and other important personalities, when they get to know that I am his son, the way they accept me is reassuring.

What does that tell you?

That shows that my father is a good man. It has also shown that he is one person that relates well with people. For him, he always wants to do things right at the right time.

Did he have preference for any type of music?

Yes, I know my father really likes Hausa music by Dan Kwairo, Fan Anache, Shata – all evergreen Hausa music.

What are some of things people don’t know about your father?

One thing I think many people don’t know about my father is that his no is no and his yes is yes. He doesn’t like people who are not serious. Anybody that is irresponsible or unserious, my father doesn’t like working with such people. But if you are a serious-minded person and not a corrupt person, you will enjoy and find him fun to be with.

What positive impact would you say your father has had on the NTA?

I can say he made positive impact because in Abuja, at the headquarters, there are building and studios that have remained uncompleted for decades. Since he assumed office, he ensured that the studios become functional.

If you watch the NTA and remember the 2019 general elections coverage, you would notice that they used a new touch-screen. He bought new equipment for the authority and also for the NTA, Bauchi. He has streamlined a lot of things. Whatever it is that is meant for you, he will make sure you get it. In terms of discipline, he has changed staff attitude and those victimised unnecessarily were able to get justice.

Does he plan to own a broadcasting station in future?

I have not discussed that with him, and I don’t think, for now, he has such plans. But I don’t know what the future may bring. For now, he has others plans but not to own a broadcast station.

When was his happiest and saddest moment?

I remember when I graduated from school. I returned home with my result. The expression on his face showed that he was happy because, as I said earlier, my father is the first graduate in our family. Ironically, I happen to be the third in the entire family.

Knowing that in the entire Mohammed’s family, I am now the third graduate really made him happy. He is always happy whenever we did something good, worthy of commendation. Another happiest moment was when I saw him carry my child; he was happy.

I remember two saddest incidents that happened. One was when he lost his mother in 2003. I think she died at 102. The second was when we were together and he received a call on a landline in 1998. The caller said my younger brother was involved in an accident. In fact, someone died in the accident. That moment, the shock and sadness on his face was too obvious. We, however, thank God he is fine now.

Does he make the watching of programmes on the NTA compulsory in his home as it’s believed that charity begins at home?

Yes, he does, especially network news at 9pm. I grew up knowing that watching NTA network news is a ritual in our house. Everybody must watch the network news when we were growing up. In fact, even as I am in Bauchi and he is in Abuja, once it is 9pm, he doesn’t pick calls except if it is an emergency or it has to do with official work. That is to show how serious and compulsory it is to watch NTA network news.

How close are you to your father?

I am very close to him. My relationship with my father is in three fold. One, he’s my father; two, he is my friend; and three, he is my boss. My father and I were able to draw a thin line between our personal and official relationships. When it comes to official matters, my father treats me the way he treats other members of staff of the NTA. But when it comes to family, we do our relationship in a family way.

Your father served as media aide to the Bauchi State governor and was once in charge of the NTA in the state. How does he create time for his family?

He has time for his family because as you know, one cannot be working for 24 hours. There are times one has to go home. When he comes home, everybody mills around him, even though he now stays with our mother and the last born in Abuja.

But anytime he’s at home, they are always together like during weekends, unless on rare occasions when he goes out early. He is always at home until 4pm when he goes to the office to see things for himself.

How did he feel when he was appointed the DG, NTA?

I vividly remember that day. I was at work and he called me to say, ‘guess what?’ I asked him what and he said, ‘Alhamdulillah (glory be to God)’, God has done it – I have been appointed the Director-General of the NTA. I also said ‘alhamdulillah’. After I finished my work, I drove to the Government House to see him. When I got there, I saw many people congratulating him.

One exciting thing was that before then, he used to smoke. But since the news of his appointed as the DG, NTA, he vowed never to smoke again. Since then, my father has never smoked cigarette.

What prompted that and why cigarette?

Well, maybe it was the excitement or his way of showing appreciation to God for the promotion. It is not as if he had not tried to stop smoking before. I remember that there were times he stopped but for a short period. But all my life, I can’t remember when he stopped smoking this long.

How did you feel when you heard of the news of your father’s appointment?

It was a mixed feeling because I felt very happy that my father had got a new and a better job than the one he was doing then. Moreover, it is a federal appointment, being the Chief Executive Officer of the NTA. He has worked with the NTA all his life and becoming a Director-General is God’s doing because there are many people that could take the position.

You can then imagine a situation where one person was picked for the position. You know it is a favour from the Lord. I knew it would be a very tough challenge for him because knowing the kind of person he is, his commitment to duties and knowing what NTA was passing through then, I knew that it would be tough for him.

Did he tell you the things in the NTA he needed to change upon assuming office?

He told me about issues relating to discipline, impunity and professionalism. He said even though he didn’t have the power, he would try and do his best and see how to improve the welfare of NTA staff. He is not the one that has the final say and since it is not a private media outfit, he could only propose, but it depends on what the policymakers agree on.

Does his current position motivate you to also want to get to the peak of your career?

Sure; why not? It’s a dream that everybody working with the NTA would desire. It is a dream I would want to achieve one day but I will have to work extra hard and pray hard.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]