Coping with an emotionally abusive partner
Having a partner who is emotionally abusive can be very difficult, especially because they always put you down with their horrible comments. Here are a few tips on how to handle such a partner

Take care of yourself

Living with an emotionally abusive person can take its toll on your health and general well-being. So, ensure you take care of yourself and find healthy ways to deal with the stress of the relationship. Get enough rest and remind yourself of your unique qualities. Also, indulge in a hobby or interest you enjoy, or try starting an exercise routine to ‘escape’ for a while.

Keep your support system strong

Maintain your relationships with friends and family as much as you can. Your partner may try to limit the amount of time you spend with others or sabotage your friendships but you should tell them what is going on so they will understand if they don’t hear from you.

Learn about the dynamics of the abuse

Knowing more about the pattern of words your partner hurt you with will help you understand that the abuse is not your fault but is something your partner chooses to do. Also, you can speak to a psychologist. They will teach you how to overcome your partner’s abuses.

Set some boundaries in the relationship

Setting a boundary in your relationship will make your partner get the message that they can’t treat you as they wish. However, when they start a verbal tirade, do not engage and try to match their abuses. Rather, calmly let them know that you are sorry they feel that way about you, and you expect them to treat you with respect. But if they continue, simply walk out of the room and give them some time to cool off.

Prepare a safety plan

According to www.livestrong.com, when you discover that your partner is the emotionally abusive type, then you should have a plan to stay safe while in the relationship. Leaving an abuser, or after the relationship is over, the words may still hurt you. Even if your partner has never been physically violent; if he or she is verbal and emotionally abusive, it may quickly escalate to physical abuse. So, your plan should include identifying safe areas of your home and planning an escape route. You should keep a phone with you at all times and know who you can call for help. However, if you don’t want your partner to know, create a code word or signal so trusted friends and neighbours know if you need emergency assistance.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]