I advise my girls to be wary of displaying their underwear – Jaiyesimi
Deputy Managing Director, CFAO motors, Mr Kunle Jaiyesimi, talks to TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN about his life as a father

How would you define fatherhood?

Fatherhood means being responsible, the bundle of joy that God has bestowed on us should be taken care of. Children are gifts from God and we are just caregivers. They are God’s property and we will give account of whatever we did with them. Fatherhood has to do with providing for the children and also helping to shape their lives and become responsible citizens and adults.

At what age did you become a father?

I became a father at age 30. My first daughter is 21 and the second one celebrated her 19th birthday last week. When one looks at our cultural setting, people will say I started having children late but I don’t think I started late. When I was 28 or 29 years, my mother started pestering me and told me to look for a wife; that it would not be nice if I had to use my pension money to buy the then University Matriculation Examination form (now Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination) for my children. She would say since I had completed school and had a job, I should be responsible by getting married. That was her usual joke. I don’t consider it too late. Everything works according to God’s plan.

Did you nurse any fear before you married?

No, maybe because of my age, I was fully prepared. Everything has to do with planning. I waited because of the plans I had for myself. I had planned that before I started anything, I wanted to be responsible for myself.

I didn’t want any family member from my side or my wife’s to take charge of the wedding arrangement. I wanted to take charge of everything and to the glory of God, we were able to do it that way. We only received gifts on the wedding day. We didn’t get loan from anywhere for the wedding. I had good plans after schooling and I thank God that I got a good job that was able to help me meet up with the needs. I was very prepared for fatherhood.

How did you meet your wife?

We met through the fiancée of a mutual friend. She was coming in from Ibadan, so she stopped over at my office. She (friend’s fiancée) was with my wife. She earlier told me she would want me to meet a friend. We became friends and things progressed from there.

READ ALSO: How Foluso Adeagbo wooed his wife of 25 years

When did you marry?

We got married on June 20, 1998 and to the glory of God, we started having children immediately. To the glory of God, we have four lovely children.

What are some of the values you imbibed from your father, which you are instilling in your kids?

My father was in charge of the home despite being from a polygamous home. I saw my father take absolute control of the house. He was able to provide for us to the extent that we didn’t usually go to extended family members for holidays or whatever. We were a united family. We don’t depend on anybody for anything. I remember then every weekend we would all sit at a table to eat. Also, whatever request we made, he would look at its sincerity before he honoured it. He would not just accept any demand. He would be sure that it was what we needed.

My father taught me contentment, neatness and he was a disciplinarian. I remember when Reighly bicycle was popular then. We wanted it too because our mates had it. He told us to bring our list of books. He rather enrolled us in extra lesson and invested so much in our education. My father also ensured that we were neat. For instance, I always had a low cut right. It was part of the training my father gave to me. In fact, in most cases, the barber got the instructions from him even before we got to his shop. Our shirts and trousers or shorts were always neatly ironed. Our sandals were always neat too.

I have also passed that attribute onto my children. When my children come up with any need, I scrutinise it and grant the one that is more reasonable and cogent. Children will ask for anything. It is you as a parent that will tell them their immediate needs and not give them everything they ask because their mates also have it. I tell my children that I am a salary earner, so everything has to align with my budget.

From their end too, they are very reasonable. There are times they come to me and say ‘we need this but it is not urgent; let’s keep it for later while we attend to this’. They have also learnt to prioritise their needs. Discipline is important though I hardly have a cause to beat them because they also behave themselves a lot.

Does that mean you have never used the cane on them before?

I won’t say I have never used the cane on them before, especially the boy. You know boys will always play tricks. As a boy, I got beaten a lot too. For example, when I was supposed to be reading, I could be playing football. My uncle, who was the cane master, would not hesitate to do his job.

Some girls are very soft and with mere scolding, they will begin to cry. So caning is not the only way to correct children. Thankfully, they have been very obedient children and we don’t stress ourselves that much.

How do you reward them when they make you happy?

They have all been in the boarding school for a long time and the first thing we do together when I go to pick them is to go out to eat at their choice restaurant; most time, a Chinese restaurant. For me, it’s an opportunity to bond with them. I don’t just dump them there. I check them regularly and whenever I do, I go with a cooler of food, sometimes pounded yam or ofada rice in most cases. They are always looking forward to my coming. My son called me a few days ago and asked me when I would visit him in school; that his friends look forward to seeing me. I cook the food that I take to their school myself.

How do you balance work and fatherhood?

I must say that it is God who gives me the strength to combine everything at once. Beyond the office work, I also have responsibilities at church. For example, I was the church warden for 15 years. I have also been given an administrative responsibility in the diocese since last year. I still do my job smoothly and over the years, God has been helping me to do my job well. Basically, I will say it is God. Though these days because of age I am taking things easy.

What lessons has fatherhood taught you?

The first is to live by example. You don’t do what you don’t want your children to do. The best way to train children is to lead by example. Try as much as possible to lead a pious life. For example, I watch the kind of jokes that my friends and I crack around my children.

When I am with old friends and they are trying to crack some uncomfortable jokes about the pranks we played as youths, I try to shield my children from such. By the time one begins to say such, they copy it. They will want to say they are free to do it too since daddy also did the same. I also try as much as possible to be responsible.

I also love all of them equally and not have a favourite child among them. With that, one will be able to exhibit same potential and everybody will be on the same level.

Is any of your children following in your career path?

I have never been too pushy; so, I have always encouraged them to be independent in their career choices, although the last girl has been saying she wants to be an accountant like me. Out of four, she is the only one who is on the path of being an accountant.

Do you discuss relationship with them?

The truth is that if one doesn’t talk to them about it, there is a lot happening now. Many challenges keep emerging daily. One has to really get close to them, especially the girls. I was once young like them; so, all the pranks and tricks are not strange to me. We have to try as much as possible to guard them against youthful exuberance. One has to get close to them to teach them about the dos and don’ts of life. This is necessary so that they don’t get derailed and fall into wrong hands. One has to know the friends they keep.

As parents, we are exposed to know the things happening around the world. My girls are not exposed to phone in their university. Once they are home, I prepare some videos for them to see what is happening and trending for them to learn from them. I tell them not to display their underwear anywhere not even where their female friends are because you don’t know who is of evil intent. It takes God to guard and shield them but one has to play one’s part too.

I talk to them twice or thrice a week to know what they have done in school and know where they are having challenges. I also follow up on their health.

What has fatherhood taken from you?

Like I said, as a father, one has to lead by example. I tell a joke when I’m with my friends. When I see an elderly person trying to misbehave, the first thing I tell them is to remember that he is somebody’s father. The whole essence is to tell them that their children are watching them. Whatever they are doing now is what the children will copy. Things are not the same way they used to be in our days while growing up.

They don’t have the kind of exposure that we had. They are always in the house. In our days, we didn’t have pay TVs. All we had was black and white TV. We used to attend disco parties, friends’ birthdays and all. We learnt in our own days. Now, we have become homely. I am either at the office and when I have social engagements, I try to leave the place early. When it is 10pm and I am not home, my children will start calling me to know where I am. They will say, “Are you okay? You are not supposed to eat late at night and the rest.” We have to show good example. It takes the special grace of God. Morning devotion is an opportunity to expose children to what is happening in the world and anchor it on biblical teachings to have a strong hold on them.

What is the most precious gift you have received from your children?

Whenever it is my birthday, they always come together to buy me a special gift. Last year, I celebrated my 50th birthday and they insisted that they would come from school. Their present was the first gift I received. They have cultivated the habit of giving. Whenever they are returning from school, they contribute to buy me gifts. Sometimes, they buy me ties, perfumes and other things. They tend to challenge me to do more for them.

What is your advice to children without fathers?

I believe in God a lot and I cite examples of orphans in most cases to my children. I also have the responsibility of taking care of the children of a close friend who died some years ago. It is a very hazardous task for a single parent to raise children. God is there to make them become somebody in life and once they have faith Him and remain focused, things will work out well.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]