Dad’s looks enough to whip us into line – Gabriel Toby’s daughter
Ibim Semenitari, a former Acting Managing Director, Niger Delta Development Commission, is one of the children of a former Deputy Governor of Rivers State, Sir Gabriel Toby. She talks about her father’s life with SIMON UTEBOR

Tell us about your siblings.

I have one sister and one brother.

How was growing up with your father?

Growing up with my father was a beautiful experience. My parents are firm but extremely loving and accessible.

What fond memories can you recall with him when you were young?

I have many fond memories of my father while growing up. My father used to play hockey and was the Rivers State Hockey Association chairman. When I was five years old, my father bought me my own hockey stick and used to take me along for hockey practice. I enjoyed that quite a bit. My father loved to take the family out very often. Every time a new restaurant opened, he would take us out to eat. He loved gourmet food and was always teaching us to experiment new tastes. He also took us out often to Port Harcourt Club to watch the Sunday matinee and to play games. We also had game nights at home, when we would sit around and play games such as scrabble, monopoly, dominoes and ludo. He is a very present father.

He is an economist, management expert and ex-deputy governor, among others. How did he use his wealth of experience for selfless service?

I expect that this question would be best answered by others who have been impacted by his service. I am his daughter and so would definitely be biased.

Your father was adjudged the best deputy governor in 2006. How did the family celebrate the award?

The Rivers Community in Abuja celebrated the award with a reception. As a family, that was sufficient for us.

He is believed to have contributed to the growth of education in the Niger Delta. Can you tell us in concrete terms what he did in the sector?

It is my mother who is the educationist in the family. My father is an administrator and manager. However, he has always had a passion for the education of all children. There are numerous beneficiaries of his personal scholarships from his early working days.

In addition, apart from his work as permanent secretary in the Rivers State Civil Service, he is the chairman of the Archdeacon Brown Education Centre Group of Schools and founder of the Gab and Christie Toby Foundation.

Under the group of schools, we have a not-for-profit school, Christie Toby Inclusive Education Centre, established to ensure inclusion of all children regardless of their physical and mental capabilities in education. The Gab and Christie Toby foundation funds this school and also provides scholarships for indigent children.

What is the relationship between him and his former boss, ex-Governor Peter Odili?

Their relationship is cordial.

How did he create time for his family when he was deputy governor?

For my father, family is paramount. Our day always starts with prayers and devotion and ends with same. Meals were had together on the dining table and we spent many evenings playing games.

What are his likes and dislikes?

My father likes sincere, hard-working and Godly people. He does not like liars, lazy and undisciplined persons.

How does he punish any erring child?

My father is a disciplinarian but he does more through silence. All one needed to keep one in check as a child was a look from him. He is a person who does not need to speak to “whip” you into line. By the time he asks you a few questions, you tend to see your folly and quickly correct yourself.

How does he relax?

He loves golf and plays it regularly. When we were younger, he and my mother would always go out weekly to play games and dance. He also loves classical music.

Were there places he took his family to for bonding during your growing up?

Yes, many places.

How did he reward you whenever you made him proud?

He rewarded me with hugs, commendations and sometimes gifts.

What kind of father is he?

He is loving, kind, considerate, empathetic, disciplined and generous.

How does your father’s name open doors for you?

My father raised me not to expect any favours but to earn my shirt. I have always done this all my life. However, people expect me to live up to his ideals, and so they easily give me benefit of the doubt.

He has shown kindness to many persons in the past and this has meant that I meet persons who are favourably disposed to me. But thankfully, I have not had any need to call for any favours from any of these persons.

What values have you imbibed from him?

The values I have imbibed from him are hard work, honesty, integrity, fairness, equity, among others.

As a politician, what motivated his performances while in service?

My father was motivated by the fear of God and service to humanity.

What remarkable achievements can you attribute to your father during his period as a deputy governor?

It would be fairer to have others speak about this but one very significant one is the construction of Unity Road that leads to Opobo Kingdom. Another is the settlement of boundary disputes, especially the Okrika/Eleme crisis.

Tell us things about him that Nigeria didn’t know.

He has a sweet tooth. He loves chocolates, biscuits and golden morn.

How do you feel being a daughter to Gabriel Toby?

I feel very proud being Gabriel Toby’s daughter.

What is his favourite food and drink?

Rice is his favourite food. If he is thirsty, the first thing he asks for is a particular soft drink but he really isn’t a drink person per se. He might take a beer now and again but certainly not more than a can.

What kind of songs does he enjoy?

He enjoys classical music and church music.

What game does he enjoy?

He plays golf, enjoys watching sports and listening to church and classical music.

What are his thoughts about the state of the nation?

I cannot speak for him on this. He is in a better position to speak on his thought about the state of the nation.

Your father is an economist and politician. Did he advise you to join politics?

No. My father doesn’t impose his views on any of us. Also, I don’t know if it is fair to describe him as a politician more than as a civil servant. I mean he spent more time as a civil servant than he did in active politics.

At 80, what more does he want to achieve?

More service to humanity and to God.

What does he want to be remembered for?

My father would want to be remembered as a man who served his God and community selflessly.

Are you under pressure to surpass your father’s feats?

No. No one puts me under pressure. I guess I am under pressure by myself. Every child wants to exceed his/her father’s performance.

Does he have any regrets in life?

I wouldn’t think so.

What does he do in retirement?

He is very busy with church, community, overseeing the family business and serving in Rotary Club.

How comfortable did he make his family when he rose to the peak of his career in the civil service and later when he joined politics?

He had no need to make his family “comfortable.” Our lifestyle didn’t change because he became deputy governor, nor when he was in office and it hasn’t changed thereafter.

Apart from serving as deputy governor, can you recall the past positions he held in which he distinguished himself?

My father had served as pro-chancellor and chairman, Governing Councils of Universities of Port Harcourt and Benin. He was also chairman of Council of Rivers State Polytechnic, Bori. As permanent secretary/director-general, he had postings to almost all the strategic ministries and extra-ministerial departments. He retired as director-general in the state civil service in 1994.

In 1997, he was appointed Resident Electoral Commissioner for Taraba State under the National Electoral Commission of Nigeria. He held at least 40 chairmanship and committee membership positions in government boards, committees, enterprises, university governing councils, schools and the private sector. During his tenure as deputy governor, he served on several presidential committees including those on road transportation, peace and agriculture.

In 2006, the Senate conferred on him the National Merit Award as the Most Outstanding Deputy Governor in Nigeria (national overall winner) 2003-2007.

Can you recollect some of your father’s achievements?

My father, through his meritorious achievements in all his service avenues, touched the lives of many. He showed compassion, friendship and loyalty. A stickler for excellence, he brings perfection to every endeavour he is involved in. He turns around for the better and adds value to life for sustenance of the dignity of man.

His life and service to God and humanity are characterised by a mind-set of whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is good and pure, and worthy of love and honour.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]