Keeping your ex as a friend after marriage
TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN examines the pros and cons of being friends with one’s ex after marriage

Once married, you want to draw a line between your past life and the new one. Is maintaining friendship with one’s ex one requiring such demarcation?

When Gboyega Arowolo and Sade started to date at the university, it was as if their union was made in heaven.

Arowolo said he was in 400 level when Sade joined the department. He told SUNDAY PUNCH that Sade was a lively and focused lady and they instantly became friends before they took it a bit higher by dating.

He said, “The day she said yes to me, it was as if a volcano erupted inside me. I concluded that day that she was going to be my wife. We were usually referred to as ‘campus couple’ back then and everybody looked up to us then.

“I finished from school earlier than she did and I was hustling like every other serious-minded person. She completed her studies too and we were both excited as we saw our wedding drawing closer.

“It was out of the blues that she sent me a text message that she was calling the relationship off. I couldn’t believe it was over. But indeed it was after she got married to another man some months after the break up that I knew she was serious.”

Asking if they were still friends, he said they were not enemies, adding that their friendship wasn’t closed.

“We are still friends on our various social media platforms but we rarely talk because I wonder what we would talk about. We aren’t keeping malice but there is a need to have that space in between us.

“I am also married too and my wife knows her. She is equally not comfortable with any form of friendship with her; I won’t want to put my wife in any difficult situation. Of course, if I need anything from her, I will contact her and will make sure I discuss it with my wife,” he told SUNDAY PUNCH.

While Arowolo didn’t state categorically if he would be friends with his ex, some others felt it was akin to putting fire under one’s pillow. One of them is a medical doctor, Chinedu Ikeji, who said he could not be friends with his ex. He described such as risky.

Ikeji said, “It’s very wrong to have one’s ex as a friend because she knows one’s weak points and how to get one to do some things. Being friends with one’s ex to me is a no-no.”

Also, an accountant, Mr Sunny Osasuyi, said it was unwise to maintain friendship with one’s ex as it could ruin one’s marriage if not properly managed.

He stated, “One can’t afford to be friends or keep close contact with one’s ex because anything can ignite an old flame. Like they say, it is the old firewood that burns more.”

Some women also felt it was risky maintaining a relationship with one’s ex after marriage.

Mrs. Elizabeth Chinenye said the old feelings that the duo had for each other could ignite.

She said, “We are humans and one can’t cheat emotions. Even if one has no hidden agenda, can one say that of the other person?”

But an agriculturalist, Mr Temitope Samuel, had a different view. He said there was nothing wrong in being friends with one’s ex as long as the relationship was rooted in platonic principles.

Samuel said, “Why not? I am still good friends with my exes provided they hold godly principles. It doesn’t hurt to hold vital conversations that might be useful to both parties.

“The fact that your relationship with them didn’t work shouldn’t make you enemies. We will, at one point or the other, need each other’s help.”

A lawyer and politician, Mr Paul Ajiroba, also aligned with Samuel, stating that he was comfortable with being friends with his ex.

“Yes of course, you cannot live in isolation .That he or she is your ex does not make them become your enemy. One leads a life to make friends and not to make more enemies. For me, communication with my ex is necessary,” he added.

For Mr Sola Richards, he still has ties with his ex without strings attached. He said, “I am still friends with my exes. Our friendship is only limited to random phone calls.”

Also, a housewife, Mrs. Iris Dera, said it shouldn’t be a taboo to be friends with one’s ex as one could not tell where help could come from.

She said, “I am still friends with my exes. One cannot tell where help will come from if one needs it in the future. It is not a big deal. With understanding and maturity, friendship can still exist with an ex.”

A relationship coach, Mr Shamsideen Giwa, noted that maintaining friendship with one’s ex should be governed by what led to the breakup and the personalities involved.

He said, “The first thing to consider is the definition of friendship as used in this context. If we talk about acquaintances, then it applies differently to talking about a proper friend. The second thing to consider is the reason their relationship did not work in the first place. The post-dating relationship that will exist between two people, who could not get married because of genotype incompatibility for example, will differ significantly from that existing between two people whose relationship ended due to cheating.

“The third thing to consider is the view of the partners regarding this friendship with an ex. For many people, the answers to the three questions make it difficult for any attempt at friendship to lead to positive results. A person whose heart was broken would either nurture hurt or unresolved feelings of attraction which may take a while to get over. Friendship with such becomes a difficult thing to pull off as it may trigger those feelings or keep them from going away.

“There are spouses who, out of trust, would not object to their partners having exes as friends and indeed, there have been exes who have come back to help. But in all, exes are better left in the past. That doesn’t mean one cannot greet when paths cross but maintaining friendships holds more risks than benefits. The potential for complications is too high”

Another relationship coach, Nike Folagbade, said it was not advisable to be close to one’s ex.

She stated, “They can be friends from a distance but not close friends that communicate often because they can ignite old fire. It is better they don’t even communicate frequently for everyone to face their journey. Except they’re both open about the friendship and each partner has access to the open friendship. But it’s better to keep off.”

Famous quote

If two past lovers can remain friends, it’s either they were never in love, or they still are. – Anonymous

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]