Sickle cell and its volatility
Tola Dehinde

Here I was, one day recently, tens of thousands of feet up in the air (I was travelling by plane). I had bid my family farewell; health-wise I was well and doing okay. Suddenly, about four hours before landing, I felt pain in my feet. I know my body well enough to realise that something not so good was about to happen and I was miles away from dry land. Then I thought it was nothing and that I could go back to sleep. But I could not go back to sleep because the pain was severe and was now moving up my body and before I knew it, I could feel the pain all over my body. I sighed and wondered what I should do. Then I remembered that I had opiate tablets in my bag. I quickly looked for them, but everyone around me was asleep because it was in the middle of the night. I could not get up, the throbbing was that strong. So, I hoped that an air hostess would walk by. After what seemed like a lifetime (it was actually minutes), one walked by and I stopped her. I told her I was unwell and needed some water and biscuits. I am one of those people who cannot take tablets without taking some food along with them. Anyway, she brought what I had requested and I quickly took the anti-sickness and opiate tablets, one after the other. Then I waited for the tablets to work their magic and for the pain to go from a ten to at least a five. As I was waiting, I was also hoping that my body would not reject the opiate. As it was, I didn’t feel nauseous at this time and that was good. After a short period of time, I could feel the intense pain easing off. Thank goodness for that. I could no longer sleep as this episode had woken me up.

Finally, we landed and got off the plane. By then, I had taken another set of painkillers (weaker ones) as I did not want to be spaced out after the landing and behaving funny at the airport. Anyway, I got someone to help me carry my suitcases and lift them onto the trolley for me. Then I called a taxi and eventually got to my destination. The driver was kind enough to carry my suitcases right to the front door for me. Those two acts – having someone to help me carry my suitcases at the airport and someone else to also take them to the front door – were acts of kindness that could determine if I would either go to hospital or not. Thankfully, I did not have to go. Then I took care of myself as I always do, took a very hot shower as this helped me no end. Then I ate and took more opiate tablets. And the rest, as they say, is history.

Now as we landed, I had sent a text to my support group that needed to know that I had landed but unwell. This brings me to the issue of who are your support group, if you have sickle cell? You don’t need to have a lot of people but enough who can be there for you, if need be. I mean, in terms of helping you go buy your tablets from the chemist or bring you some food or help you out financially (if that is what you need) because having a long-term illness does not come cheap, in terms of buying tablets, eating good food or going to the chemist or hospital when sick. Or you could need someone who will be there for you spiritually. I want to speak to young adults who need to have a support group of three to four people who can be of assistance in their time of need. If you are reading this and you don’t have this, please look into having a support group. To have to go out and buy tablets for yourself when you are in pain is tough and I am speaking as someone who knows. While I am on this crusade for every person suffering from sickle cell disease to have a support group, could I also ask that if you are reading this and know someone who has sickle cell or a parent who has a child or children with sickle cell, do extend a helping hand. Ask them what help they need, don’t guess. Everyone’s needs are different and so help received will also differ. But more than anything, do ask how someone with sickle cell is doing from time to time because you don’t know, they might just be sick. Take my case for example, I boarded the plane in good health and came out of it sick.

Today, I would like to talk about coconut meat (raw): The super high-fibre content acts like a probiotic, feeding the good bacteria in the intestines and helping you to stay regular. Its fresh juice is rich in electrolytes. It aids hydration and provides minerals essential for bodily functions, such as movement and brain function. Coconut is high in dietary fibre and contains a whopping 61% of fibre. Coconut helps to produce energy by burning fat. Eating coconut regularly supports the development of healthy bones and teeth. Eating coconut regularly also helps in promoting blood circulation. Let’s enjoy eating more of our coconut.

You can get in touch with me by sending me an email – [email protected] and do check out my blog on www.howtolivewithsicklecell.co.uk

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]