I was scared my kids would be born with congenital anomalies – LUTH CMD
Chief Medical Director, Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Prof. Chris Bode, shares his fatherhood journey with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood is that crucial and important act of parenting that a child needs. It is an act of loving children, guiding and nurturing them and to have a balanced, enriching preparation for adulthood. A good father nurtures from cradle, watches over his children, infuses confidence in them, corrects and shows them love. This is important so that when they grow up, they live feeling like there’s no mountain they cannot climb.

There is nothing they cannot do because a father has built confidence in them that even if he is no longer there, his spirit lives with them. A father must be a mentor, a protector and a nourishing enabler for his children. He is the person one looks up to. That is just half of the story because the mother is also very important in raising a child.

At what age did you become a father?

I became a father when I was 33 years old.

Do you think it was late when you had your first child?

Yes, it was. I could remember that my mother begged me to just bring anybody. Many of my classmates started early but I think it was good for me; it was good for me because I was ready, mentally, emotionally and career wise. My children are a bit younger than those of my contemporaries but I think it was the best time for me because by then, there was nothing I was looking for.

Did you have any preferred gender before you had your first child?

Yes, my wife and I wanted to have two daughters but now, we have four boys and a daughter. We wanted to have girls that we pamper but we are blessed with four boys before and later had a girl.

Were you in the labour room during the birth of any of your children?

No! As a doctor, they would have driven me away because I could be useless in there to them. I would be obstructing and meddlesome. I am not good in the operation or labour room when any member of my family is going through a procedure. I always advise that it is best I stay away from such place. I just allowed the doctors, who are professionals in their fields, to do what they needed to do.

What were your fears before you became a father?

As a paediatric surgeon, I had many fears. Over 60 per cent of the cases I see in children are those brought from the womb – diseases called congenital anomalies. When I was expecting my baby, I was scared thinking they would have all those diseases that come with child delivery. You can imagine my joy when we had all of them and they came out beautifully and wholesome.

How do you celebrate your children whenever they make you proud?

I was brought up in an era when parents think if they praise their children, they will no longer do well. It’s one of my weaknesses to be openly celebratory and affectionate of my children. Not that I don’t love them but I was brought up in that era when one wouldn’t openly show affection to one’s children. Though I know better now and I am balancing it.

One shows them approval, consent to be free within the limits of the fear of God and obey the laws of the land. One also encourages them to do more and congratulate them from time to time. I also praise them for their achievements; no human being hates to be complimented.

At the same time, I make them understand that no achievements in this world should make one rest on one’s laurels. It’s an achievement and it is gone; so, move on to the next phase. Complacency is the enemy of progress. As a father, I encourage my children not to be complacent. They should be the best they can be.

What lessons did you imbibe from your father that you instilled in your children?

To be God fearing, never think or premeditate evil towards any human being. That is insurance; if you don’t think evil towards someone else, no evil can befall you. Also, believe in God and also in yourself. One tradition I picked from my parents and which my wife and I also practise very religiously is to accommodate the young. It is not only one’s children that one should be responsible to. Anybody who thinks one must be a parent to him or her, one must be there for them as a parent. One must open up one’s heart towards them, open up one’s mind and house to them. I don’t see my five biological children as the only children I have. My wife and I raised many children before we gave birth to our own children. At 92, my father still has young children he trains, feeds and pays their school fees and they relate with him as a father.

As a father, I am patriarchal to many children who see me as a father and I see them as my own children too. I am very happy about it and I am not ashamed of it at all. My children asked me about our family’s relationship with this and that uncle because they don’t know how they became their big uncles. They might not have blood relations but they are as close to me as my own children. It is one thing I learnt from my father which I know I averagely practise.

What are some of your challenges as a career father?

I would say my wife has had to bear the brunt more than anybody else. Luckily, two of my children have followed me in my line of career and the remaining two are still in school. One of them seems to be interested in following my career too but the other doesn’t seem she is coming close to it.

I am lucky I have found balance. The balance to work hard at work, return home and play with them. I make clay figurines, tender the garden and play with the dogs with them. I also play with their toys. If you are a parent with a part of a child in you, you don’t lead the children alone, you become their friend and they look forward to seeing you. You become like the ring leader in their park. I play with them and watch cartoons with them. We knew the cartoons line by line. I didn’t just watch the cartoon with them, I enjoyed them. I am a good storyteller and many people do not know that about me. I have over a thousand folklores that I entertain children with.

I am beginning to write them down so that they don’t perish. I am a good cook; I cook for my children. I learnt that from my father. At 92, my father still cooks and I taught my sons how to cook too. It’s a way of bonding with my children. Sometimes, I wake them up in the middle of the night and we tiptoe into the kitchen and make cupcakes or something nice. We clean up because we don’t want the mother to know and we return to sleep. But she would always know about the pranks we play.

I sing for them and dance with them. I am lucky and I enjoy fatherhood with my children. For me, each day I spend away from my children without having time to play was a lost day.

Daughters are close to their fathers, while sons usually seem to warm up to their mothers. Is this the case with you?

For me, it’s easier to manage the boys than the girls, maybe because the girls know how to pull one’s heartstrings. They know the button that pins one except one quickly calls on oneself to the consciousness that one supposed to be in charge. That is the major issue I have with the girl-child. They play with one’s emotion. For the boys, one can just shout at them and they will comply. It’s their mum who knows how to evade their tricks.

How do you discipline them when they erred?

To cane them and I soon discovered that it was futile. I discovered that it was better to sit them down and speak with them. I tell them they cannot do this and that. I discovered that children are different from one to the other; even twins are different. Some children obey once one shouts on them and others will need to be flogged. Some would be flogged and still remain adamant. But a parent needs to keep talking to the children. When one stops talking to them, then there might be a problem. But when one continues talking to them, they will listen even when they leave one, it still sticks to them.

We use morning devotions to interpret the Bible to them because if we don’t, someone else will interpret it to them. Another way we discipline them is during family meeting. We tell them their offences and what they think should be done to them. Everybody will then agree that it is not part of our family ethics. We tell them not to do anything that will bring disgrace to the family.

What are your values?

It is a number of things which I can summarise in a few words. Enjoy what you do and do what you enjoy. I enjoy the work. If I have all the time, I will do my work round-the-clock. One shouldn’t be complacent or take oneself too seriously; disembody yourself from titles. Look for new challenges; be productive, give the best of your life to whatever you are doing. You never know who is watching. I didn’t think I would be a chief medical director. I was just doing my work. Now that I am in the position, I must give meaning to what I have been appointed to do. One must also have good role models who will inspire one to do more and lastly, have good friends.

What is your advice to would-be fathers?

Fatherhood is fun and nobody should be denied the joy of being called a father. At the same time, it is a serious work for which one must be ready or pretend it doesn’t exist. One must also never forget the mother of one’s children; she is necessarily a part of the team. There is no excuse for a failed father; one cannot recapture it once one fails. One needs to be there at every point in time for one’s children.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]