I wasn’t ready financially when I started a family –Odega
Nollywood actor, Francis Odega, shares his fatherhood experience with OLUSHOLA RICKETTS

How would you describe your experience as a father?

When I wasn’t a father, I envied those who were, but when I became a father, I saw that it was not a bed of roses. When one’s wife gets pregnant, as a man, one will start to think of how to fend for the child. However, the moment the baby is born, miracles happen from nowhere. That was my experience when I had my first daughter.

Did you wish your first child was a boy?

My wife and I debated on this. When I needed to buy wear, I bought boy’s wear because I expected a boy. We also went for a scan and it showed a boy. My wife was sad because she wanted a girl. When the baby came, she was a girl. Luckily for me, she still could wear the clothes for a while.

How many children are you blessed with?

I have two girls.

Do you still wish to have a boy child?

I wish to have Francis Odega Junior. When I am gone or retired as an actor, I want somebody to continue from where I stopped. But my daughters are wonderful and priceless to me.

Were you financially stable when you married?

To be honest, I wasn’t ready. I met my wife at an event I anchored. She came with her uncle. We exchanged numbers and the relationship started from there. I wasn’t ready financially when I started a family, but God made a way for me.

What age did you marry?

I married at 27. My first daughter will be 21 this month. When I met my wife, I didn’t want to take chances; so it was just right for me to take the step. I thank God I married her; we have been together for 15 years.

Have you ever been in the labour room with your wife?

I was in the labour room during the birth of our second daughter. I saw how the baby came out.

Were you not apprehensive during your wife’s first childbirth?

I wasn’t afraid because my mother assured me that everything would be alright. But the two birth experience wasn’t easy for my wife. There was a time she said she would never near me in bed again but she still did.

How have you been able to keep your marriage?

As a child, my father always encouraged us to be a man. Also, my wife is not into entertainment. There is always an issue when two celebrities are married. My wife does different things but she supports what I do. On my birthday in February, she came to location with a cake and we celebrated together.

Do you cane your children?

I raised my children in a way that I don’t need to use the cane. My gestures alone tell them how to behave properly. My wife doesn’t use the cane on our kids either. Most times, beating a child doesn’t make things better. But when one tells a child why he or she should not do certain things, the child will behave well.

How do you reward them when they impress you?

I take them to nice places. I also tell them that once they do well in their examinations, I will spoil them with gifts. For instance, I told my first daughter that once she finishes school, I will buy her a car.

When do you regard as your saddest moment as a father?

When my children want certain things and I cannot afford them, I feel bad. I do everything to make sure I take good care of them. But I do not allow my daughter in a boarding secondary school to own a phone. When she comes home, however, she uses a phone. I believe they are still under my control until they become adults or married.

Don’t you think you are overprotective?

I am not overprotective. Of course, I allow them to have friends and their friends come to the house. But for me, I must know their friends and their parents because I don’t want them to mingle with wrong friends.

What age will you allow your daughters to have boyfriends?

I don’t want to talk about this. I do not even know if they have boyfriends now, but I have done my best in training them and I leave the rest to God. If a child wants to turn bad, he or she will do that regardless of what one does. As parents, one has to start instilling God’s fear in them as early as possible.

Do you discuss relationship with your daughters?

Yes, I do with my first child. I always ask her if she has a boyfriend and I tell her to let her mother know if she does because we want to know whoever she’s involved with.

What is your happiest moment as a parent?

I am always happy whenever they want certain things and I give them. Both of them stay in hostels. I am always with their mother at home, believing God for Francis Odega Junior. Apart from my children, I have other family members I cater for. My aged mother stays in Lagos and she is my responsibility. I am the third of seven children, but if God blesses me, there is a need for me to help others.

Why do you put your kids in hostels?

I am always busy and the same applies to their mother too. I feel it will be best for them. But we visit them often and talk to them on the phone.

What did you learn from your father that helped you in training your children?

My father was a disciplinarian and I took that from him. It wasn’t easy to convince him that I wanted to be an actor. Those days too, there was no father who wanted his son to become a footballer. My father died over 20 years ago, but my mother is reaping the fruits of her labour. They now call her ‘mama actor’ and she is proud of me.

Did your wife give you a tough time when you indicated interest in her?

Of course, she behaved as if she wasn’t interested in me and I also understood that she didn’t want to come cheap. It took me about four months to convince her.

Who apologises first when there is a disagreement between you and you wife?

At times, I say sorry and there are times she says sorry too.

Are you fulfilled as an actor?

I am 100 per cent fulfilled as an actor. I have received awards nationally and internationally and that tells me I am doing well.

What is the secret to your rise in Nollywood?

I will say God and the ability to interpret my roles well. The secret is to do one’s job well. Once one is nice to people and one does the right thing, nobody will have problems with one.

Don’t you feel stereotyped as a comic actor?

Once one is a banker, you are a banker. Once one is good at what one does, people will know one for that. But I am a versatile actor and there is no role I cannot play.

Why have you not ventured into stand-up comedy?

I was a pioneer member of Night of a Thousand Laugh with Opa Williams, late Sam Loco, and Okey Bakassi. I stopped comedy because I was too preoccupied with acting. I cannot be on set and still perform at shows. I performed at Seyi Law’s show about two years ago and I received a standing ovation.

Don’t you think you would have been a bigger brand if you had remained a comedian?

We have stand-up comedians who do not see the limelight despite their obvious talent. Also, I still anchor events like wedding ceremonies and general meetings.

How do you relax?

I like playing table tennis and I go to the cinemas to see movies with my family. At times, my children teach me how to dance at home too.

How do your children react whenever they see you on screen?

My first daughter acts too. When she was in secondary school, she was the leader of the school’s drama group. I started producing a series a while ago and my daughter played a role in it. Lack of funds puts the series on hold. My daughters always criticise my roles and tell me better ways I could have done certain things. If I bring a script home, my first daughter goes through it and gives me ideas. In my house, it is laughter all the time.

Do your children take you seriously?

My children take me seriously because they know when I am serious and when I am joking. At times, I communicate with them via my eyes.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]