Coping with a workaholic spouse
GBENGA ADENIJI examines the views of married couples and a relationship expert on best ways to cope with a partner who works all the time

That hard work pays is an incontestable statement. But regardless of how busy one is, many believe an active spouse should create time for his or her partner even if it’s occasional. How then does someone consider one’s better half in the face of overwhelming, demanding task requiring one’s attention all the time?

A married man, Mr Olumide Olasunkanmi, is of the view that communication should be the dominant factor in coping with a partner who is a workaholic.

The legal assistant in a popular private hospital in Lagos told SUNDAY PUNCH that once one understood the nature of one’s spouse’s work, it would be easy to cope and adjust appropriately.

Olasunkanmi said, “A good communication between couples is important. As the saying goes, if there is no communication, there is no information. Where there is no information, there is no understanding. Where there is no understanding, there will be no love. And where there is no love, relationship is dead.

“I am a workaholic and my wife and family members understand the nature of my work. Even my mother, who is clocking 95 soon, understands the nature of my job. This is easy because we communicated long ago about it and everybody knows the situation.”

He also enjoined married couples to create effective communication and understanding to live together peacefully.

A teacher and mother of two, Mrs Kemi Oguntoye, however, said a female partner could cope well with a workaholic spouse than a man because of domestic responsibilities.

She said, “If a man is a workaholic, he needs to provide money for the home to make up for his absence. Since he won’t be around to assist the wife in taking care of the kids, he should provide money for their home lessons.

“Also, since he won’t be available to assist with some home chores, he should provide money for some household equipment especially washing machine so the woman doesn’t die of work. Except they have grown up children, who can assist the woman, there is a need for it.”

She further stated that regardless of such provisions, the man should endeavour to be around his family or wife if they didn’t have kids yet because nothing could replace a partner’s presence.

“It is also important for the workaholic husband to take his family out whenever he is able to do that to keep the flame of their union burning,” Oguntoye stated.

On her part, a computer analyst, Mrs Janet Sylvester, said she once dated a workaholic man but ended the relationship having discovered that he wasn’t ready to adjust.

She said, “A partner may be a workaholic, yet have feelings for his or her partner. But it becomes excessive when the partner is unwilling to address the situation or doesn’t care. I always wanted to talk things out with him at the time but he usually gave flimsy excuses about his busy schedule and all that.

“But from experience while growing up, I discovered that one will create time for someone one loves no matter how busy one is. I was ready to assist him and work the union through with him, but he was unwilling.

“Another person came along and you know women enjoy attention; it didn’t take long before I agreed to his proposal. I was not desperate to settle down when a new person came but I became fond of him within six months of courtship. What I will advise every partner is to watch their spouse well and clear all doubts before marriage.”

Sylvester noted that no matter how busy a partner could be, he or she wouldn’t be working throughout the hours in a day; hence there should be a balance to ensure peace in the home.

“I shudder when people say they are workaholics. Does it mean they don’t have some time to spare for themselves and others close to them?” said the mother of two girls.

Commenting on the issue, a marriage coach, Ope Kayode-Crown, said there was a thin line between a hardworking partner and a workaholic spouse.

Saying it was a good thing to work, he stated that every family must find a balance between work and family life.

He added, “Companionship should be a matter of priority. Every good couple must find ample time to bond together despite their busy schedules.

However, because of the nature of some jobs, or the stage some families are in, generating more money to settle necessary bills, the tendency is high that one of the partners may be very busy with work.

“Is it a time to crucify one’s husband or wife or abandon the home because it seems your spouse doesn’t have time for you anymore? The answer will be no.”

Kayode—Crown urged couples to understand the nature of their partners’ jobs.

He added, “Is it the type that involves travelling outside your base most of the time or the one that makes him or her come back late every day? Understand that your spouse is not your enemy. He or she is a lover and a friend.

“Sometimes, your spouse does not need a change of job. You may be the one that needs a change of thinking. As long as what your spouse is doing is for the benefit of the family, you may need to adjust yourself to accommodate it. I agree that it’s not going to be easy.”

According to him, partners at the receiving end should stop complaining and see everything as part of the deal and to know how to draw the line whenever it seems the work is negatively affecting their spouses’ health.

He added, “Truly, an idle hand is a work tool for the devil. Look inward and engage yourself with what you like most. Despite your spouse’s busy work schedule, life won’t be boring for you if you are also doing what you love most.

“When you wake up each day with passion to achieve a set task, you will hardly feel the vacuum. A full-time housewife may need to learn a new skill like sowing so that when her husband has gone to work and the kids are not yet back from school, she has something to keep herself busy. This has nothing to do with her educational level.

“Instead of burying your head in depression and sadness all the time, you may want to try something new – make new friends, try new hobby, and go to new places where you can feel more relaxed and comfortable. This may include enrolling in a new class, new project or new pursuit of career that will be all consuming. Be occupied and work on new ventures. You may want to even volunteer yourself for a community service, where you can be more fulfilled and happy. Just do something new. You won’t be bored that way.”

He also advised a workaholic husband to have special timeout once in a while with his family and a career wife without time for her husband or kids to create time for them.

Kayode—Crown noted that if there seemed to be no improvement in the attitude of the workaholic partners, the couples should seek the help of a marriage counsellor.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]