Coping with a suspicious spouse
Having a suspicious partner is not easy in the early stage of one’s relationship. This is especially when the partner goes through one’s call logs and messages to know who one has been talking to on the telephone. Here are a few tips to guide you

It is not about you

Understand that your partner’s suspicious behaviour has little or nothing to do with you. It could be that your partner’s perceptions for whatever reason is as a result of their past. Since you cannot fight them for their perceptions or tell them that they are wrong to feel that way, it is best to ignore such a negative attitude for your peace of mind.

Don’t let it get to you

Having to face constant negative suspicions from your beloved is difficult to accept. But don’t let your partner’s suspicions ruin your day or spoil your mood. Tell yourself that only you have the power to control your mood and no one else. Don’t give away this power so easily. Moreover remind yourself that you are responsible for your own feelings and your spouse cannot make you feel unhappy or bad about yourself without your consent.

Avoid getting defensive

According to www.futurescopes.com, your partner may severely try your patience with his or her interrogations about who you met and what you did last week. Rather than getting defensive, try to listen calmly instead of getting defensive. Cutting off your spouse prematurely or reacting with an impatient gesture or tone of voice will only blow up the situation and give your partner another reason to build up his or her suspicions. Likewise, try not to dismiss or discount a jealous partner’s feelings. It will make your partner feel more misunderstood.

Hear them out

Instead of mentally switching off or reacting with counter-criticism be patient and hear out your partner when they begin to complain about your actions and their implications. Sometimes, it helps to let a jealous partner know that he or she can talk to you about his or her feelings. If your partner feels understood after talking about his or her problems in a supportive environment he or she will be able to move beyond such feelings and worries more effectively.

Consider your own actions

It may even be possible that some of your actions are leaving room for doubt. If you regularly take calls late at night or leave town unannounced, then your partner may only be reacting to such unconventional acts on your part. To you, they may not seem worth kicking up a storm over, but to the other person, they may imply something else. The only way to solve this is to bridge the communication gap by talking things through and assuring them that you will be more transparent about your plans.

Talk more

If you find that your supportive behaviour bears no fruit, and on the contrary, you are getting exhausted by constantly having to answer to your partner’s suspicions, then, it may be time to take a more direct approach by talking about it. Find a suitable time and place to have a talk with your partner and discuss how you are feeling unhappy at being interrogated all the time. Let your partner know that being constantly suspected no longer makes you want to try harder to please them.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]