I sometimes think I’m too responsible for my kids – Lemi Ghariokwu
Popular artist, illustrator and designer, Lemi Ghariokwu, shares his fatherhood lessons with GBENGA ADENIJI

How would you describe fatherhood?

Fatherhood for me, as a human being, is the stage when one reproduces another human being. That makes one a father. One has to be ready and prepared to carry out that role. To me, fatherhood should be a very important occupation in all ramifications so to speak. Fatherhood is being protective, a provider and nurturer.

When did you become a father?

I became a father in 1986. Our first daughter was born in 1986 and the second daughter in 1987. It took a while before we had our first child. Five years after, the second child; we had a son, and 10 years after, we had another son. We have four children altogether. The two females are married and we are grandparents now as we have two grandkids. I have been a father for 32 years.

Is any of your children following in your footsteps?

None of them took that line directly but they are all talented along the creative line. My first child is a cloth designer. She studied computer science before she took to cloth-making. But now, she is a computer programmer practising in the United States of America. She does consultancy work to train personnel in the medical field on computer usage. The second studied English but she is now a dance instructor. She teaches ballet dance in some popular private schools in Nigeria. The third child is a film editor. He studied video and television production in India and works with an agency as an editor. The fourth is still in the university. He is studying English like his sister and also an aspiring musician.

When did you marry and did you consider the age early or late?

It is good for us to self-discover. I studied metaphysics and I am more spiritual than being religious. I am alive in the sense that knowing oneself is the injunction. One has to find out who one is. By the time one knows who one is, one will discover the talent in one. This is because every being is imbued with gifts needed to survive life. Mis-education happens in society and it gets many confused. Some parents want their children to toe their career paths not minding the destinies of their children. Many go through life unhappy and unfulfilled.

From the beginning, I have never been a womaniser. I was with Fela in the 70s and 80s. I remember how people used to laugh at me then because I wasn’t into the girlie-girlie business. By the time I met my wife, I was okay that I had found somebody and that was it. We have been together since 1976 when I was 21.

I wouldn’t say I married too early because at that time, it was a natural flow. In our generation, many married at such age and the lady could be 18 or 19.

Did you nurse any fears about becoming a father at the time?

It was a natural flow because once one had a job, one would no longer want to waste time. It was not that way for everybody then. But at least, it was that way for many.

Can you recall how the wedding held at the time?

I am not a system person. The education and religious systems are a ‘no’ for me. I do away with religion. I stopped going to church in 1975. That is a story for another day. The religion we practise is not our religion and it is part of what is holding us down as a nation.

Every progressive race in the world worships their god irrespective of the propaganda from the whites. Indians and Japanese worship their own gods and are making progress. I was born a rebel and a conscious being. I don’t follow society. I am an iconoclast. Rebels are born while revolutionists are made. To become a revolutionist, society affects one and brings out the reaction in one. But a rebel would have been one originally. I met my wife and we got married and not that we held a ceremony. We later went to the registry when maturity set in and the woman wanted it. The children were grown then. I was not even comfortable with it because I believe that it’s not any agreement that binds our love. It is society that demands that.

What have been your challenges as a father?

The challenge, like most fathers will say, is being responsibile for their kids. To be a father is not by mouth. There are some humans that can be irresponsible and not care about their families. To send one’s children to school and cater to their needs take a lot especially in this kind of shit system where governance hasn’t moved us forward as a nation and individuals. The individuals have not benefitted from this country’s wealth. As a choice, my children attended private schools because of strikes in public schools.

You creatively handled illustrations for album covers of notable artistes including Fela. What inspires your artistic ingenuity?

Fela and I were predestined to have collaborations. I was prepared for the roles I played with Fela and the ones I am currently playing with Folarin Falana popularly called Falz. At age 12, I became conscious of my race. I had racial pride. I don’t call myself black; I am an African. Black is not supposed to be a race and we don’t call the Chinese yellow or the Indians red. They gave us label to create a psyche that white is good while black is evil.

Destiny would always play its part. It was in 1972 that I saw Fela physically and he had become popular at the time after his hit, Jeun Koku. I was a student then at Yaba and Fela came with members of the Nigerian Association of Patriotic Writers and Artistes for a meeting. It was association of people who studied abroad. After the show, Fela gave a free show at the school’s field. I didn’t know that our paths would cross two years later.

Your father wanted you to be an engineer but you abandoned the programme midway. How did he feel?

As I said earlier, parents most times, out of ignorance and also of love for their children, would want to make career choices for them, but everybody has a destiny. My father felt somehow at that point but when I achieved success, he let it go. Later, I changed my name but he didn’t do that. Now, members of my family did same.

You were born Emmanuel Sunday but changed to Lemi Ghariokwu. Why did you do that?

That is what I call conscious and ideological processes to make progress in life. Identity is important. We decided to indigenise our names and Fela dropped Ransome and retained Kuti. Recall that during the slave trade era, plantation owners loved to name their slaves. Ransome, like Cassius Clay, is a slave name. Mohammad Ali, at a time, dropped Cassius Clay.

While trying to change my name, I went to my father to research about the name. The Emmanuel in my former name has been modified into various forms. Some friends called me Emi. They also changed it to Lemmy Caution, a fictitious crime buster in a carton strip. During our discussions, my father told me that the ‘Okoh’ in his name was his elder brother’s name. He told me that as the fifth child when his father died, his brother assisted him with the little education he had and registered him in school then with his own name as surname. I was surprised.

I asked him what his own father’s name was and he told me it was Ghariokwu. Immediately he said that, my spirit agreed because Ghariokwu in Agbor, Delta, roughly means ‘Forget about it or don’t bother’. I told him that was the name I should bear for it captures the kind of person I am. I told him that I would change it.

My father said he already spent about 35 years in the works ministry and too old to be going about to change his name. I also calculated that I have to do a creative analysis since I would be dropping Emmanuel, Sunday and Okoh. It would be total loss of identity and I have been popular as Lemmy Caution. The first album cover I did for Fela was even signed as Sunny Lemi. I found a Yoruba name, Olalemi and took Lemi as its shortened form so as not to lose my identity completely.

You have been described as ‘King of Covers’ because of your ingenuity. How wealthy are you?

I am wealthy and fulfilled but not in material terms. In Africa, we found ourselves in shackles of desperation because the shit system is not working. Fulfillment is a state of mind. Fulfillment comes from a sense of mission. The moment one realises that mission, one feels fulfilled.

How did you enforce discipline on your adult children when they misbehaved when they lived with you?

I didn’t use the cane on my children; I talked to them. The last time I chastised my last child was when I was taking him to school as I always do. I was in a hurry waiting for him in the car and a neighbour’s child was also going with us. My son just walked casually to the car without haste. I patted him on the shoulder harshly and asked why he couldn’t walk faster. That was how far I can go. I don’t beat my children.

How do your children appreciate you for your fatherly roles?

This is a good question. This is why the way the society is going gives some of us concern. We are orientating our children in the white man’s way. There are some things today’s children take casually even though they appreciate what one is doing. In my nature, they know that I am often not bothered. They appreciate me.

How do you appreciate them for making you proud?

My way of appreciating them is my responsibilities towards them which I don’t shirk. I sometimes believe I am over responsible for them because I go out of my way to satisfy them. I don’t discriminate against anyone of them and I tell them that I love them equally. Sometimes, it is like I am pampering them and I feel I am over responsible for them. I would think that I am going overboard.

What would do you wish to do differently as a father?

The way society is structured is a battle for conscious people like us. It is like a burden. One is always thinking out of the box but society wants everybody in a box. One’s partner sometimes may not be going in one’s ideology. If I had my way, my children would have honed their talents long before. But I had to let them go through the system and I am not in the system.

For example, I didn’t go to university and it wasn’t by accident but by choice. Fela told me that people like me are geniuses and if I went to university, I would be taught colonial art. He said he experienced same but had enough willpower to shake it off.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]