I was in labour room with my wife four times – Otitoju
A former Ekiti State Commissioner for Information and Culture and ex-Commissioner, Securities and Exchange Commission, Kayode Otitoju, talks about what fatherhood has taught him with SIMON UTEBOR

How would you describe fatherhood?

Fatherhood is demanding, compelling, interesting and to me, because I married early, it bestows maturity and understanding.

When did you become a father?

I became a father at 26 during my National Youth Service Corps. My NYSC year was observed at the Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research in Ibadan, Oyo State.

What fear did you entertain before becoming a father?

Let me first say that marrying during my youth service means I married early. There was the fear of responsibility which is to provide shelter, food and good employment after the NYSC. Also, there was the fear of taking care of the pregnancy and the baby, pay hospital bills and other essential requirements, giving them good home and ensuring education for the children.

You worked at the Nigerian Ports Authority and served as a commissioner in Ekiti State. During the periods, how were you able to combine your duties and obligations as a father?

During the periods, my initial fears were taken care of by God. Because the God, who sent me a woman that was more than a wife, gave me a mother, a partner, a stimulator and a competent other hand that made clapping possible. You know you cannot clap with only one hand. Apart from a good wife, I think God has given us a good job and appointments.

Were you in the labour room during the birth of any of your children?

We have five children and I was in labour room four times because we have a set of twins among them.

What were the lessons you took away from the four times you were with your wife in the labour room?

Any father at all, no matter how bad he is, labour room is where he will really know that women are purposely sent by God to perform some functions that men can never perform. As the woman labours, one will be praying in a complete state of suspense until one hears that the woman has been delivered of the baby. Then, the joy starts when the baby cries and one is laughing.

How did you discipline your children when they misbehaved?

I used carrot and stick approach with native intelligence. I guide, motivate, advise and punish them when the need arises.

What has fatherhood taught you?

As a father, I have learnt that I should handle each child on their merit and uniqueness and allow them to develop their personality traits. By so doing, I have realised that even my identical twins have many dissimilar traits.

What are the values you learnt from your father which have helped you in parenting?

I learnt from my father to always be hard-working. He always said hard work does not kill. Again, I found out that one cannot do things alone. One must work with one’s wife. Even when one thinks one has the capacity to do it alone, one must take one’s wife into confidence to the extent that anything pertaining to the children, once one’s wife tells one to go ahead, one must not look back.

Do you wish any of your kids follow in your professional career path?

It is now difficult because they have all grown up and they have chosen their professional paths. We have an electrical engineer; we have a computer engineer turned fashion designer, making bags and dresses in Barcelona, Spain. Another one has taken to hospitality management. That one is already a general manager in a foreign company. The boy I thought could have taken after me works in an investment bank in Washington DC, United States. It is not likely that any of them is going to take to my profession.

What is the relationship between you and your children?

They are very happy because we gave them good upbringing, good education that I think they themselves are praying to do for their offspring. By so doing, the world is their constituency and they are scattered all over the world and excelling in their callings.

Is anyone of them living with you?

Sparingly, yes. One worked at an international phone firm in Lagos. Now he is in a private television as an executive consultant. My daughter works as a general manager in a company in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.

Do your children give you gifts as a way of appreciating your fatherly roles?

I get invaluable gifts from my children every day. For instance, recently, the one in Dubai sent me a ticket to go and relax for some weeks after my election primaries and all the hurdles. She fixed her visit to the US. I linked up with her in Dubai and from there, we went to the United States of America together. After my stay in the US, I returned to Nigeria while she went to Dubai. That is a precious gift. When I turned 60 in 2015, all my children jointly arranged a party for me in The Bahamas.

My wife and I went to The Bahamas and had a wonderful time together. When I contested primary on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, all my kids supported without being asked to do so. They knew that if I get there, I will do my best. They believe in me because of the way I took care of my family, that if I should be entrusted with any sector or position, I would add value.

How do you handle disagreements with your wife?

I lost my mother in 1982 and father in 1988. We grew together and we have been growing together, respecting each other’s differences. We didn’t record serious fights just bickering. To cooperate and become a real union took a longer time. People mature in the age range of say 30 or above.

But I was very lucky to have a good mother-in-law who will never take sides with her daughter. Whenever there was any issue, she would chastise and blame my wife. She never saw anything wrong in me. There is check and balance on my own part and I found a way to make sure that we don’t get things to a level she would have to intervene in anything. This is because when she hears, she would be blaming my wife even when I was the one who did wrong. That has really stabilised our marriage since 38 years ago.

How do you reward your children when they make you proud?

I celebrate them by motivating them; that it is just the beginning and the best has yet come. We congratulate them but there was never a serious gift such as buying a car or computer for them. But when I think about the feat they attained, we celebrated some of them for the world to know. I always used my position to project them in the media. For example, when our first child came first in the West Africa Senior School Certificate Examination in the West African sub-region, she was interviewed by journalists.

What is your view on polygamy?

Like you said, it will be my view because I never experienced it. My father was a monogamist and I am also a monogamist. Again, my religion, Catholicism, does not allow polygamy. My view is to get good partnership from a wife. It is good to restrict one’s partner to only one woman. Women are naturally jealous or envious, and they do not give their best when they know there is a competitor.

What is your advice to young couples?

The initial stage may be rough and again, by the time they are getting married, they should understand each other up to 60 per cent. As they grow, they should understand the differences between them. They should know that understanding is built over the years and it is when one works together in unison that one will be able to raise one’s children the way one wants to raise them.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]