Labour pains ceased when dogs chased us on our way to hospital –Olaifa
An entrepreneur, Mrs Sonate Olaifa, shares her experience as a new mother with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN

How do you feel as a new mother?

As a new mother, I wake up every morning with a bright smile on my face. I still look at my baby and tell myself ‘this is my flesh and blood, my bright morning smile’. I say this to her because every time she wakes up and sees me, the first thing she does is to give me a beautiful smile and that means the whole world to me.

When did you give birth?

I gave birth to her on Thursday, March 22, 2018, at 10am. She weighed 3.4kg at birth.

Describe your labour experience.

My antenatal was on a Wednesday. I had seen signs that my water was going to break two weeks earlier; so, I was already expecting my baby. My husband had to follow me to the hospital to be on a safe side. We took a stroll to the hospital to get me ready for labour. Immediately I saw the doctor, he asked me why I have yet given birth.

He told me to wait behind that I had already started contractions, but I refused to stay because I was already scared. I didn’t want to turn to an experiment for the doctors. I told the doctor I would come back. When I got home, I started dancing like I just won a lottery. I was still not feeling the labour pains; so, I decided to take a stroll again in the evening with my husband.

I started feeling the real thing at 4am. It was an indescribable experience.

What did you do afterwards?

Immediately, I woke my husband up. We could not drive out of our street because the gate had been locked. We had to use the walkway unfortunately, and the labour pains had become so intense that I could no longer walk.

My husband had to look for a motorcycle to get me to the hospital. On our way to the hospital, we were chased by dogs and my labour pains immediately disappeared.

I was very scared because I thought of what could have happened if we were bitten by dogs. When we got to the hospital after we escaped the three crazy dogs, the labour pains returned. I was taken to the delivery room immediately as I had started dilating. It got to a stage that I shouted at the matron attending to me, but I later felt bad because she was the only one I shouted at apart from my husband who was with me all through.

When it was 8.30am, I told my husband I couldn’t take the pains again; I told him I wanted a caesarean section but he kept appealing to me. At 9am, I told God that I want the baby out at 10am. At 9.30am, I was fully dilated and moved to the main delivery room. My husband wanted to leave but I told him he must see everything I go through. To the glory of God, my baby Tioluwanimi came out exactly 10am. It was as if she came out with all my problems. I felt relieved and all the pains disappeared seeing her.

How did you choose your baby’s name?

I have loved the name since I was 18. I took care of a baby then and his name was Toluwani and that was how I came to love it.

Did you enjoy your pregnancy and what was the most difficult part of carrying a baby?

My pregnancy was easy to the glory of God; no morning sickness, no vomiting only when I brushed my teeth in the morning. Although I had slept all through (the night), immediately my husband left for work in the morning, I would return to bed. I could sleep all day and I stopped work immediately I found out I was pregnant. I had enough time to sleep. The only time I felt sick was when I had serious flu in my third month, aside that, every other thing was smooth.

The most difficult part was the heat and not been able to eat what I cooked. I could eat anything especially food that I didn’t cook myself. My husband would buy food for me. He also cooked for me because I couldn’t eat what I cooked. I made sure I took pap and moin moin in the morning before breakfast. I also ate freshly-baked Agege bread with butter before dinner.

Did your baby arrive at the exact date predicted by your doctor?

She arrived a week earlier. I gave birth to her at 39 weeks. While the expected due date was March 28, I gave birth March 22.

How did you cope with mood swings during pregnancy?

I really tried to control myself but I couldn’t take any insult. Whenever I was angry, I would just keep mute, and I cried over little things.

What has been your most challenging task since you became a mother?

The most challenging part for me as mother has been sharing my time with my daughter. I miss having all the time to myself. Twenty-four hours is not enough to do things around the house. There’s always something left undone since the arrival of my daughter, although the joys of motherhood make that seem irrelevant. I get to grow with my daughter every day.

She comes up with new act every month. It’s so exciting looking forward to what she will do the next month. It wasn’t like that initially. Before now, it used to be overwhelming but gradually, I got used to it.

I remember when I just had my daughter. I was always exhausted at the end of the day, and I still have to attend to her. My husband has being a solid support. I really do appreciate him.

What are some things you have observed in taking care of a newborn?

What I have observed is that I have to be very attentive and also be patient because one gets to spend more time with a newborn and learn every new thing that grows with them. One can’t always be in a hurry with a baby especially newborns. Their timing is different, they want what they want at the time they want it. But gradually, as they grow, one starts one’s timing with them.

For instance, now, my daughter doesn’t wake up to eat again in the middle of the night. Another thing I have also observed is that babies listen to what one says. So, one needs to start talking to them as early as possible.

How would you compare your life before motherhood and now as a new mother?

Before motherhood, I had all my time to myself. I could go out anytime, do things at my own leisure. But now, I work with time if I want to get things done even if not all, at least 60 per cent.

What part of your body changed during pregnancy which didn’t like?

The part that changed in my body that I didn’t like was my breasts; every other part was okay. My face wasn’t really swollen and my bump was deceiving. It was when people started noticing my pregnancy that I gave birth.

How did you return to shape after birth?

Getting back to shape was fast because I didn’t really gain much weight when I was pregnant.

What advice did your mother or relatives give you about motherhood that helped you?

My aunt used to tell me to eat lots of fruits, Titus (fish); take prenatal drugs and rest. I think all these helped me.

What would you have loved to do differently while pregnant if you had the opportunity?

I will like to do more exercise because I was lazy during my first pregnancy.

What was the first word that your child learnt?

She has yet said a word but I think I heard her say daddy recently.

Did you do exclusive breastfeeding?

No; my baby refused breast milk two weeks after birth.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]