I regret not being in labour room with my wife –Ovadje
A retired General of the Nigerian Army and a surgeon, Dr. Oviemo Ovadje, tells SIMON UTEBOR about his experience as a father

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood in simple terms means a man having a child or children. The process of mentoring and nurturing them to a state where they no longer need one’s tutelage is fatherhood

When a man gives birth to a child, he becomes a father. He begins to perform the whole responsibility of providing for his children. The maturation process of a child by a man is fatherhood.

The process of impregnating one’s wife to produce a child is fatherhood. One can adopt children and skip this stage and still become a father. One will still go through the process of nurturing, mentoring, training and guiding to make the child a whole and complete person.

To make this clearer, animals do not father their children. The males just impregnate their females. The responsibility of mentoring and nurturing them, which is a short process, is borne by the females.

When did you become a father?

I became a father in September 1982 after I got married. There are some people who become fathers out of wedlock. This is not the same as when fatherhood is done with a legal companion. Since bearing the burden of fatherhood is more tedious when one stands alone, one needs the support of one’s legal companion – a wife – to successfully father a child.

Would you say you married at the right time?

Yes. I married at the right time because I was of age, mature and a qualified medical doctor. It was also the right time that I met a companion who was ripe for the union.

What was your fear before you became a father?

I cannot say I entertained any fear. There was no fear at all. I was mature and fully equipped financially and materially to play the role. I had a home to keep the children. I had all the requirements to take care of a child and protect him/her. My wife was equally equipped as a medical doctor to support me. That is why the issue of legal companionship is important.

Did your military profession affect your relationship with your family?

Not significantly. There were moments when I was not available because of my call to duty. I did a lot of travelling both locally and internationally. But I was always in touch with my children. I had a wife who assisted me in ‘fathering’ the children. That is why the issue of legal companionship is very important and cannot be over-emphasised. My wife was the managing director of the home and my advisor-general in the process of fathering the children, though I was the head of the home.

Military personnel often travel or go on transfer. Did that affect your children’s upbringing?

I will say, ‘no’ because as said earlier, someone was managing the children and myself. That person was my wife. This made it easy for me to father in absentia. She was my eyes, hands and legs. I was the commander and the control-centre in the fathering process. In any case, I always moved with my wife during my posting. The army took advantage of the fact that my wife was a medical doctor like me. Any unit I was posted to automatically got two doctors. It was a case of ‘post one, get two’.

Were you in the labour room with your wife during the birth of any of your children?

Regrettably, no! I say regrettably because if I knew what I know now, that would have been the best thing to do in the fathering process. It would have enabled me to see things from the beginning – how my children came into the world. I really don’t know what transpired between the falls of labour and when the doctors and nurses came to inform me that I had either a baby boy or a baby girl. I don’t know if any of the babies came out with their heads, their legs or their buttocks. Some even come out with one hand. All this would have given me a total picture of their birth.

I would advise here that men should try to be part of the labouring process. The sight and feeling of it can make one appreciate the process and agony of bringing a child to life. This can create and improve the relationship between the child and father and create the bond between the trio of father, mother and child.

How did you discipline your children when they misbehave?

Even though my children have outgrown that age now, as a father, I would continue to discipline them but not the same way as when they were younger children. The way I disciplined my children as a baby, teenager, adolescent and grown-ups are different.

A baby cannot be disciplined by merely looking at him, rolling one’s eyes or frowning. Unlike an adult, who can be corrected by a mere wink or facial expression. One may need to shout, hold a cane or threaten a younger child but with a grown up, one reasons more with them though with a bit of raising one’s voice. The disciplinary control measures with grown-up children are mostly mutual. They are not totally under one’s control as with the case of the growing children.

The younger child does not have the capacity to reason with one until he attains a particular age. On the contrary, an adult child has his own mind and can obey or disobey one. One’s control and discipline of an adult child is more of persuasion because he has a mind of his own.

What has your experience as a father taught you?

My experience as a father has taught me that life is a continuum in the realm of humans but not in animals. Our experiences continue to improve either positively or negatively. Like I said earlier, animals do not have memory of such. For example, I can make references to some of the things my children did when they were growing up. Though they may not agree or remember them vividly because as they grow up, the animalistic nature of man was getting lost, so they cannot remember. We could describe some of such experiences as childish because they were not part of the complete picture of the adult child.

For example, one of my children at a tender age of four years, used to complain that I did not mind my business and poke-nose into people’s affairs. This was done without fear or respect for me as her father, as part of immaturity and childishness. All this was lost when she became grown.

What are the values you learnt from your own father which you are instilling in your own children?

My father was a very disciplined, humble and God-fearing man. As a five-year-old child, I learnt that my father was humble, quiet and gentle; that he would rather say sorry than want you to say sorry when you step on him. These attributes were repeatedly told to my children as they were growing up.

Did any of your children follow in your career path as a military man?

I never thought of it but like it is often said, ‘An apple does not fall far away from the tree’. My children are not far away from my professional path or learning. For example, most things that they did intellectually were done as though I was the one doing them.

My first two daughters are in the medical line while my third daughter is a lawyer. Even though they did not follow my line of medicine, they are close enough. My older daughters veered into medical research as myself. They have won various awards; they have excelled at the peak of their disciplines in the medical field. I sometimes think that they have surpassed me. The most senior one won the Risk Science Fellowship from the University of Michigan and is today a professor in the Health Sciences. While the second one, also in medical research, is a winner of the Canadian Mitacs Award for her contribution in her anti-cancer discovery. The third one is a legal practitioner, who got called to Bar in North America. She is an elegant and highly-creative lady.

Are you close to your family?

Yes, I am.

Did your military training impact on the way you relate with your children?

Yes, my military training did impact on the way I relate with my children in the area of discipline, focus and consistency.

Have you received any gifts from your children in appreciation of good parenting you have offered them?

Yes. They have reciprocated my goodwill in many ways.

How do your children relate with you?

They are very cordial, friendly and respectful. An open line of communication exists between us. They have sometimes guided me in handling certain situations that I have encountered in the course of duty. I remember once when they spent a whole night using their American experiences to guide me in responding to an act of plagiarism committed by an American company that copied my work on the Emergency Auto Transfusion Set project. When I say American experience, I mean that they made me not to be aggressive or sentimental but to maintain my cool in addressing the issue at hand while not trespassing on communication boundaries.

How did you handle disagreements with your wife?

As it relates to parenting, my children were never part of the resolutions of disagreements between my wife and me for the following reasons – we separated them from our communication lines which were mostly done in the privacy of our bedroom. This did not mean that they did not hear or see some things that transpired between us; they always kept away. It was easy for them to do so because there were no violent altercations between me and my wife, particularly since I was the only loud and quarrelsome person between us.

My wife was always calm. It takes two to tangle. They saw that behaviour as part of my being a man. I believe this would also help them in their family life. Sometimes they made fun of us when they repeat some of the things they hear. For example, they often repeat and tease us with what they hear my wife say, “Oviemo biko,” meaning, “Oviemo, I am sorry.” She says this even when I am wrong. I think they learnt a lot from their mother who was in the habit of downplaying my excessive and exuberant behaviour.

How do you celebrate your children when they make you proud?

I show them that I am happy with them. I create an environment of appreciation and encouragement. My sons are equally encouraging, even the less-equipped of them.

What is your view on polygamy?

I have no personal views on polygamy even though I am not one. I was married to only one wife. I never practised it or criticised those who practised it from a moral or religious point of view. I think there are pros and cons, like every life experience even monogamy is not totally free from issues. It depends on how both are handled. I have five children and I never had a child outside marriage. Even after her (wife’s) death, I did not have a child outside her.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]