I broke my pledge not to shout during labour –Origbade
A microbiologist, Mrs. Gloria Origbade, shares her labour experience with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN

What is your baby’s name?

We gave him many names but we call him Success.

How did you choose the names?

When I was 17 weeks pregnant, I was looking for a unisex name for my baby (we were yet to check the baby’s gender) and Success came to my mind. When I told my husband, he said the name sounded like a female’s and that he knew the baby would be a boy. I thank God that he later agreed.

Is he your first child?

Yes, he is our first child.

What did he weigh at birth?

He weighed 3.0kg

When did you give birth to him?

I gave birth to him around 9.30pm on Friday, April 27, 2018.

What was your first reaction when you found out you were pregnant?

I was excited about being pregnant and I knelt down immediately to thank God for the privilege to carry a baby inside of me.

What food did you crave during pregnancy?

I craved watermelon in the first trimester and party jollof rice in both second and third trimester. I remember the day I followed a friend to a wedding. All that was on my mind was the jollof rice and when they eventually served us, I ate both my plate of rice and my friend’s. She said she wanted amala (yam flour) and even after that, I was looking for another plate. My friend said what I ate was too much unaware that I was pregnant.

What was the most difficult part of your pregnancy?

The most difficult thing for me during pregnancy was heartburn. It wasn’t easy at all. Also, I always found it difficult to stand up from bed.

Where were you when you went into labour?

It started around 11pm on Thursday, April 26, which was my antenatal day. Earlier that day, my husband and I were chatting about women’s labour experiences that we read online. It was around 11pm that I started feeling pain at both my back and my lower abdomen.

How long did the labour take?

When it started, I didn’t know I was in labour because it came every five minutes which was too close contrary to what I read online. I managed it till the next morning. We got to the hospital and we were told they were on strike so we went to a private hospital. When we got there, I was two centimetres dilated and I was admitted.

Around 2pm, the nurse came to check me and the doctor said I was four centimetres dilated; so, I was moved to the labour room. They kept on checking for the dilation which was painful and I had to tell the nurse not to check again. When the contraction happened every one minute, I was already speaking in tongues. A nurse had asked my husband which town I came from, that they didn’t understand my language. Around 6pm, I started pushing without being asked to do so because anytime the contraction came and I pushed, I was relived.

The nurses were even angry with me but I didn’t answer them and my husband was just there saying ‘sorry’. Then it got to the time to push and I found that the easiest part of labour because anytime I lay on my back, the pain would reduce. But during the labour process, I was told to always lay with my left side. I was told how to push and anytime I pushed, my husband would tell me he had seen the head that I should put more effort. When I was finally delivered of the baby at 9pm, I was just saying, ‘hallelujah’, ‘thank you Jesus’. I was in labour for about 22 hours. When the doctor said the baby resembled his daddy, I was angry that after the pain I went through he didn’t resemble me?

Did you have a plan on how to go through labour?

I already promised myself that I wouldn’t shout during labour but I still found myself shouting because of the pains. It wasn’t as easy as I anticipated at all.

Which of the trimesters did you enjoy most?

The first trimester was very beautiful for me. I didn’t have morning sickness and I didn’t feel the pregnancy. It was so peaceful for me that people did not know that I was pregnant.

What were your thoughts during labour?

Labour is a very painful experience but when I was going through it, all that was on my mind was how to give birth safely.

Which family member was with you in the labour room?

It was only my husband who was with me in the labour room. My brother came to the hospital later but I was told that he went outside the hospital gate because he couldn’t stand the labour process.

How did you feel when you held your baby for the first time?

I didn’t feel anything. I just saw it as a normal thing. I think the labour experience took all the excitement I already anticipated before the delivery.

Did you desire a particular gender before you gave birth to your baby?

Not really, but I preferred a girl while my husband wanted a boy. I later desired a boy because I knew it would make my husband happy and I wanted him to be happy.

What prepared you for labour?

I attended prenatal classes and also read a lot of materials about pregnancy and labour online.

What lessons has motherhood taught you?

Motherhood has taught me so much, but the one that stands out for me is time management. Motherhood has made me understand that time is vital and that if things are not well managed, one will not achieve anything.

What advice did your mother give you about pregnancy?

My mother was there for me throughout my pregnancy period. She always told me to eat a balanced diet.

How do you combine your job with raising a child?

My company runs a very flexible system and since I am a nursing mother, my boss understands. That way, it has been a bit easy combining the two.

Would you say you are overprotective of your child?

Yes, I am especially with all the strange news we hear all over the place. But I am also learning to balance it now that he has grown up a bit.

What advice would you give other women about pregnancy?

I will advice them to always take their drugs and to also try and eat a balanced diet. It works.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]