Coping with a taciturn spouse
GBENGA ADENIJI writes about the best ways to cope with a spouse who is usually unwilling to talk

No marriage is perfect just as each individual in a union has their shortcomings. Hence, couples should learn to tolerate one another to achieve healthy relationships.

But inasmuch as one cannot do without certain issues in marriages, there must be ways to handle them before they get out of hand. In the same light, some married persons and experts opined that if an individual is loquacious and his or her partner reserved, there should be ways to handle the union to achieve unity devoid of acrimony.

On how to cope with a quiet spouse, an accountant, Mr Segun Sobowale, noted that in reality, none could be reserved while with his or her lover.

He said, “I will say that from experience, no one is taciturn. What taciturnity means when one is in the presence of someone one loves is that one needs attention. The garrulous spouse, so to speak, only has to talk to his or her reserved partner to understand what is wrong.”

Sobowale stated that a Yoruba proverb even noted that when two lovers meet, they would immediately become chatterers.

The married man advised partners to find workable ways to end the worries of one another, “especially finding ways to get their partners out of their worries like showing true love and genuine concern even to the extent of teasing.”

On her part, Mrs Ronke Ogundimu, stated that dealing with a taciturn spouse would only be easy if the other party was an extrovert.

Ogundimu said, “But when the duo are introverts, then one must withdraw from his or her shell to assist the other else the marriage may hit the rocks or its progress hindered.”

The married teacher added that home communication was paramount to the development of the physical and emotional development of the family especially the children.

Arguing in a similar vein with Ogundimu, an Ondo-based teacher, Adediran Fagbemigun, believed that coping with a taciturn spouse would demand huge wisdom.

He added that considering the fact that such attitude could be the partner’s long-existing nature and forming part of the person’s identity, it required caution in order not to break the relationship.

Fagbemigun stated, “For me, one of the best ways to cope with such spouse is to engage more in picnicking. The more the other party creates time to take him or her out, the more the taciturn partner may see the need to talk more and come out of the shell.”

Another married man, Mr Gbenga Emmanuel, stated that coping with a reserved partner demanded a high level of patience, a great deal of attention and robust communication.

He reasoned that since the partners courted and married, the issue would not appear as bad as it seemed because there was communication all along before they came together.

“If the quiet partner is a woman, the man has to turn on his charm and woo the woman again. If he did it before, chances are that he will do it again and even do more than expected to keep his home.

“The partner also needs to know the reason for the woman’s taciturn nature except she has always been like that. The woman needs assurances that she is still the centre of her man’s world,” Emmanuel stated.

Besides, a nurse with a private hospital in Ibadan, Oyo State, Mrs Ruth Akpan, said wives would naturally demand attention from their husbands whether they were chatty or reserved.

Akpan said she sometimes kept to herself to get her husband’s attention especially if she noticed that he was concentrating too much on his mobile or other irrelevant matters.

She further said many times she gave her husband the silent treatment before she got the deserving attention from him.

“I think there will always be reasons for a woman to be taciturn in the presence of her husband. If a man shows love always to his wife, it will be unreasonable for the wife to just decide not to reciprocate. But some women are naturally quiet without being chatty and that doesn’t make them taciturn. They just don’t like talking too much.

“In all, I think there should be a balance among partners, else, the home will be boring and each partner may seek fun outside the home. This will no doubt be detrimental to the union,” the nurse added.

In his contribution, a psychologist, Prof. Oni Fagboungbe, said whatever behaviour anyone exhibited was either hereditary or acquired.

He noted that if a partner was taciturn and the other talkative, the lovers would not enjoy the union since they were opposite in character.

Fagboungbe added that the option was for the chatty individuals to first look for ways to bring their partners out of their shell.

He said, “Let the person realise first that the behaviour is abnormal. This is because the taciturn partner may be thinking that it is his or her garrulous partner’s behaviour that is abnormal.

“Once the person accepts the character deformity, check if the behaviour is situation specific. That is if the person doesn’t behave that way in every situation. Look for when he or she is always boisterous. Let him or her know that existence is based on principle of collaboration.”

The psychologist said if the methods failed to yield positive results, the concerned partner should consult an expert who would find ways to address the situation and connect the distant spouse with his or her partner.

Also contributing, a relationship expert, Mrs Olabisi Soetan, said understanding should be paramount between the couple.

She added that if one understood one’s partners, one would make the best out of the relationship.

“It is not about whether one’s partner is a talkative or quiet. If one focuses on building relationship and accepting them for who they are, they will talk more when they are with one another,” Soetan added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]