My wife and I sometimes hold joint sessions to correct offending children – HRM Daniel
A lawyer and traditional ruler of Abureni Kingdom in the Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, Collins Daniel, talks about what fatherhood has taught him with SIMON UTEBOR

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood is the art of being a father. One who is responsible for others is seen as a father. At the family level, if you are referring to a father, you talk about the person who takes responsibilities for the wife and children. At the level of the church, the pastor is seen as a father. They are fathers in their own right. At the traditional level, a king is a father because the entire clan, the kingdom and the communities rest on his shoulder.

At the political level, there are godfathers who have been in politics for a while, spread their tentacles and garnered experience, and so, people look up to them for direction. These are four realms I have looked at fatherhood.

When did you become a father?

I became a father at an early age, precisely on February 8, 1982, when I had my first child.

How did you welcome your first child?

It was interesting. I had expected a male child but God gave me a female, which I do not regret anyway. I welcomed her with gladness because children are a gift from God. Having a child, I felt, I had graduated from a young man to being a father who someone looks up to.

Would you say you married at the right time?

Sometimes, relationship does not come at the time one wants it. Whenever one finds it, one will accept it the way one sees it. Not quite, but that is how I found myself and I have no regret anyway.

At what age did you marry?

I married at 25. Some people at that age are planning to have the entire world before they get married. But let me say that it is not about money but ability to be responsible.

Wouldn’t you agree that money also plays vital roles in marriage?

Money plays an important role if one is from a certain part of the country where one has to raise much money. If I had come from such area, probably I would not have married at the time I did. But in my place, the bride price is not much. It is a matter of showing that one will take care of one’s wife. One can also have support from the family. Then, there wasn’t hunger in the land. I was a junior worker and my salary was sufficient to take care of my family.

What was your position in office when you married?

I was a clerical officer and at the time, I had already entered the university. I married when I was in the university.

How were you able to cope with marriage and schooling at the same time?

I planned that I was to go to the university. I was admitted to the university in 1981; then, I was engaged. When the baby came, it was a pleasant experience.

What fears did you entertain before becoming a father?

Once one is married, one will be expecting children. A marriage is full when one has children. When one has kids, one should be happy. I did not entertain any fears. I knew that fatherhood came with responsibilities and I was prepared for it.

How do you manage your duties as a monarch and father?

I must say it is not easy. But what will I do, having to play the role of a king, lawyer and father? For one to be chosen as a king, they would have looked at who one is in society.

Were you in the labour room with your wife?

I went with her to the hospital but not to the labour room because the management would not allow one to go there. I sat at the reception and communicated with nurses to know her progress with the baby.

How do you discipline your children when they misbehave?

I look at discipline as a way of moving a child from the wrong side to the right side. Most of the times, I tried to sit them down and talk to them and point out where they misbehaved. It is only when one has not achieved the desired result that one would resort to caning.

For adults, sometimes, I urge their mother to advise them on how to be of good behaviour. You know mothers are close to the children. But if that fails, it will lead to a joint session among the mother, father and the offending child. One will thus advise them on the right path to tread. That is my approach to discipline and it has been working for my family.

What has your experience as a father taught you?

As a father, I have garnered lots of experience. I have learnt to be patient. This is because the time one was young would be different from when one is married.

If one was hot-tempered before and usually took decision in a hurry, this must change after marriage. Every father has to be patient to deal with issues because any decision taken out of anger may not be the best because one will not achieve the desired result.

Another thing is that a father should be able to exercise restraint dealing with issues. The father should endeavour to hear from both sides if there is any matter brought to him before taking a decision. The principle of fair hearing, as we have in law, is important.

I have also learnt to have a good conscience. Having a good conscience will enable one to live above board so that one’s children can learn good things from one. As a father, I have also learnt how to forgive. Those who forgive those who wronged them will reap the benefits. As a father, one has to respect oneself because respect begets respect. A father should avoid things that one should ordinarily not indulge in otherwise it will dampen the kids’ morale. There are places one is not supposed to sit down and engage in conversations. As a king, one cannot move around in the community. When one does so, one devalues oneself. There are values one has to imbibe as a father. I have learnt that the moment one does some things unexpected of one, people will gradually not give one the desired respect.

What values did you imbibe from your father which are assisting you as a father?

My father is an asset to me. One of the virtues I learnt from him is hard work because my father always said that if one doesn’t work hard, one will become an armed robber or a lazy girl will turn to a prostitute.

Another value I learnt from him is respect for elders and seniors. If one sees someone that is older than one, one doesn’t expect the person to greet one first. One should greet the person first. If one sees an elderly person carrying a load like firewood, one doesn’t need to ask the person whether he or she needs help. One should help the person. Those are the virtues I learnt from my father.

Another virtue is the fear of God. Whatever one does, one must realise that there is God that oversees the affairs of men. If one doesn’t have that fear of God, He would not intervene in one’s affairs. Another is humility. My father taught us not to be arrogant. He was very humble. Doing good is important. Most times, the good my father did helped me tremendously in life.

Is any of your kids showing interest in your career line?

Inasmuch as it is difficult to want one’s children to follow in one’s professional path, every father derives joy when he sees traits of professional continuity. Somehow, some children look at what their father do, like the careers and may take after one’s professional calling. I am happy that I did not force any of them to follow in my career path.

My first daughter is a lawyer. She practises in Lagos. The books that I bought, if I am no more, would not be a waste. In fact, she is in partnership with me even though she practices in Lagos. There are matters I refer to her. After she was called to the Bar, I also encouraged her to go into arbitration. Today, she is a chartered arbitrator.

I also have a son that is in the civil service. I have a daughter that studied Theatre Arts and also in the civil service. I have an engineer and two are studying medicine. I am happy that some of them followed in my professional path.

How would you describe the relationship between you and your family?

We have excellent and cordial relationship. If you come to my family and see my children, you will think they are my younger siblings; the way we interact and argue to learn more will amaze you. That is the kind of wonderful relationship we share.

What gifts have they given you in appreciation of your fatherly roles?

I do receive gifts from them. But I must say that whatever is given to one, whether big or small, is cherished. It is not only buying one’s father a car that such a gift becomes cherished. During the Yuletide, my children bought some things for me; not necessarily expensive things but the fact that they came from their hearts is something I cherish. They make one feel that one has children who remember one and that should gladden any father’s heart.

How do you handle marital disagreements?

As humans, disagreements are inevitable. But when they occur, we normally assess ourselves and resolve them internally. Somehow, the partner that realises that he or she was wrong usually apologises and the wronged party accepts and the matter is laid to rest. But I can say that on one or two occasions, family members had to intervene but they did not give us the desired settlement.

Husband and wife matter is internal. They need to understand each other. When you sell out what keeps you together to the people outside, you have lost out a vital part. We have realised that we might have issues to the extent that we might not be able to sleep on the same bed. But after sometime, we resolved it by beginning to sleep on the same bed again. At times, the children are instrumental to settling some issues. They would come and say, ‘Daddy, why are doing like this now? What did mother do to you?’ And before you know it, the children have their way and reconcile the parties.

How do you celebrate your children when they make you proud?

Sometimes, I usually organise a small family get-together to honour the child that has brought glory upon himself, and by extension, the family. I remember when my first daughter graduated from a private university in Edo State; she made a second class upper. I promised my children that anybody who makes a 2/1 or above would get a prize. I organised a party and gave the girl a prize.

When my daughter was called to the Bar, we also celebrated it. Being the first female lawyer in the family, I encouraged her and used her to encourage others to take their studies seriously.

What is your view on polygamy?

Polygamy is part of the African culture and society and we have come to live with it. It has positives and negatives. It is, therefore, only personal to anybody who is a polygamist and no comments can be exhausted on the issue of polygamy.

How many children do you have?

I have 10 children – six boys and four girls.

What is your advice to young couples?

My advice to young couples is that they should honour their marital vows and learn to respect each other as partners. A marital relationship is a contract and before they are married, they may have studied each other and agreed to come together as husband and wife.

They should know that matrimonial relationship requires lots of sacrifices. Some ladies want to start driving big cars as soon as they get married. It does not always work that way. There must be support from each other and also respect for the extended families. Marriage is not all about the two parties alone. Parenting is also important in marriage. Children must be properly brought up so that they do not become a menace to society.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]