When your partner plays the blame game
Sharing your life with a partner who is fond of playing the blame game can be frustrating and may likely lead to the end of the relationship. Here are a few tips on how to handle a partner who blames you for everything

Have a heart-to-heart

If your partner blames you for everything, then it’s time for you to speak up, share your perspective and ask them to listen to your point of view. Say what you mean and avoid placing blame because you could be tempted to do so. Just state your observations and make a very conscious effort to listen to what your partner is saying and really try to change your behaviour for the sake of peace in your relationship. You may be surprised to discover that you have some things to work out too. Also, ask them to take a look at some ways that they too can improve the relationship. When you act as a team towards the issue, it will demonstrate support, care and compassion in keeping the relationship going.

Point out the issues gently

Inasmuch as you are furious with your partner, you should calmly and rationally point out why they think you are always to blame when there is a problem. Make a deal with them to tell you when you start acting out of line so that you would have a rethink. For instance, every time your partner tries to blame you, ask them to gently call out the issue. It allows you to either clarify the reality of the situation or take a look at your behaviour if there are changes to be made. The important piece here will be that you both understand the benefits of improving the love and communication in your relationship. So, be willing to talk about it and see how you can both improve yourselves.

Don’t take it personally

According to www.bustle.com, if your partner tells you that you are the cause of something, remember that it is not really true. It could be their denial strategy. If this is the case, you should avoid arguing with them. You can be loving and kind to your partner while you explore enough time to find out the real reason for their action.

Be willing to see your part

Ask yourself questions if you are in anyway guilty of your spouse’s constant blame. It may not always be ideal but it could be rewarding to look at your part in things. And if you are at fault, ensure you take responsibility for your part. It is very crucial for your partner to acknowledge that the blame feels one-sided or that you feel held responsible for everything that seems to go wrong. Remind your partner that you are a team and a team effort is needed to address whatever goes wrong and help to shift the relationship away from a blaming dynamic into a collaborative dynamic.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]