Is baby adoption an alternative to infertility?
SIMON UTEBOR writes about the chances that child adoption can suffice for couples battling infertility

Sharon Jones, from the Isoko speaking area of Delta State, was 30 when she met her spouse, John Umukoro, an Urhobo man, in Warri, about 20 years ago.

Sharon, who is now 50 years, was observing her mandatory National Youth Service Corps programme at the time. Umukoro proposed to her and they married same year.

A year after their marriage in 1999, they had a baby boy together. Two years later, she gave birth to another baby boy through caesarean section. But the expected third child, preferably a girl she desired, did not come. After about 14 years of waiting, she became really disturbed. She went to different hospitals to know what went amiss.

In three of the hospitals, the couple visited, they were told that trying for a third baby could jeopardise Sharon’s health. She then persuaded her husband to adopt a girl. Her preference was for a neonate, but there was none available and they were offered a girl of five years.

Sharon recalled that she was shocked to discover that in the early years, she felt no love for her adopted daughter, renamed Joan.

“It didn’t even feel right to say she was my daughter. The word ‘daughter’ describes a relationship, a connection – things we both didn’t have,” recalled Sharon.

“I don’t love my daughter any less, but it’s a different kind of love. With my sons, my love is cast in stone. It’s that ‘die-for-you love’ that would never change, no matter what. With Joan, it’s a love that develops and grows. It’s more of a process than an absolute.”

For Mrs Dumebi Jackson (coined name), married to a prominent journalist in the South-South 18 years ago, the joy heralding her marriage started receding after three years when she was unable to have a baby.

She said she became a laughing stock in the area they were living in Enugu State. Her in-laws, according to her, did not allow her any breathing space.

Dumebi said she decided to try adoption when she couldn’t bear a child after some years of marriage. She noted that it was within the period that God surprised her with a baby boy.

Sharing her experience, she told our correspondent that infertility was a bad thing in marriage, stating that it could tear any family apart if there was no love and understanding among the lovebirds.

Dumebi explained that baby adoption was supposed to be an alternative to infertility in marriage, adding that social situation and circumstances couples found themselves, particularly in Nigeria often made it a tough step to take.

She said having experienced years of infertility, she was no more perturbed by denigrating remarks about her and her spouse hence the desire to find solace in child adoption.

Dumebi said, “My husband and I were duped while trying to adopt a baby. We lost a huge amount of money in the process of doing so. We resorted to adoption when all hopes seemed lost.

“We passed through the phase of accepting adoption as an alternative but it is usually a difficult choice. After series of counselling that adopting a child could open the door for our own child to come, we bought the idea.”

She, however, advised couples battling infertility to consider baby adoption instead of remaining childless.

On his part, a lecturer in the department of philosophy at the Bayelsa State-owned Niger Delta University, Amassoma, Dr. Konrad Ekiyor-Welson, said there was nothing wrong in baby adoption.

He stated, “Baby adoption is a good alternative. Surrogate motherhood is complicated; so, that makes adoption a good alternative if it is legal.

“The moment all medical attempts fail, the next best option is legal adoption. It is a provision that allows a woman and a man to have a child, even a day old, without necessarily going through the process of carrying a baby for nine months.

“Adoption helps families that cannot take care of their children to give them up for adoption. So, it is something that the Nigerian society should encourage. It will stop some little girls from throwing away their babies and also give opportunities to those that are barren to have access to children.”

He added that someone who adopted a newborn should be prepared psychologically to claim ownership of the child the day one took the baby to one’s home.

In her contribution, a married woman, Mrs. Patricia Uzoamaka, said it was incontrovertible that adoption was an alternative to infertility.

“Children are children, whether biological or non-biological,” she stated as a matter of fact.

“Adoption is not a sign of faithlessness. The whole thing boils down to the mindset of an individual whether to adopt or not to adopt. But considering the joy children bring to the family, it is advisable that those who cannot have children of their own should adopt.

“This is important because a child ends loneliness in any home. Imagine how a couple will feel if there is nobody in the home except the two of them. This goes beyond your own flesh and blood. A child you adopt legally is also your own child. But the way you relate and treat that child is another thing.”

A specialist in reproductive medicine and surgery, including fertility and IVF, Dr. Lateef Akinola, said baby adoption, as an alternative to infertility, should be the last resort.

Akinola, who is the founder of the Lagos-based Medison Specialist Women’s Hospital, opined that baby adoption should be considered after trying continuous pregnancy, IVF and other options.

He said, “Adoption is the last resort except for people who do not want to have a child at all and they decide to adopt because they do not want to try IVF. But normally, it is somebody who has tried IVF and has stayed several times and instead of not having a child at all to foster, they can go for adoption.

“Yes, of course, it has some psychological impact on the adoptive parents and on the child. But what people do is to adopt early at infancy. It is only the parents that may feel the impact. The child may not know before maturity that he or she is not the biological child. “

He said despite the psychological effect of adoption, it was necessary because it would bring happiness to the marriage.

He added, “If couple wants to adopt, it has a lot of processes. There are criteria they have to meet before they can adopt. But on the adopted child, it depends on the adoptive parents; how much love and care they give to the child. But I am sure that someone who is going all out to adopt will have to do well to make the child comfortable without making him to have any psychological effect.

“It is a win-win situation for the couple that wants to adopt and the child who wants to be fostered.”

Also, a psychologist at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Prof. Toba Elegbeleye, noted that infertility could cause lots of psychological headaches because of some cultural and traditional norms.

Elegbeleye stated that modernity had found a way of circumventing the challenges posed by infertility through adoption.

He stated, “Baby adoption is a good alternative but not the only alternative to infertility. There are variables that come with many factors. When you are involved in a marital engagement, the next thing you expect is that children will begin to come. It is a cultural norm; it is traditional. If they do not come, it becomes some kind of psychological headache for both the husband and the wife.

“But again, modern trend has looked for a way of circumventing that by way of adoption. Adoption, if it is properly done, will also fill the gap that infertility has created.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]