I prayed to have twins and God answered me –Rykardo Agbo
Nollywood actor, Rykardo Agbo, in this interview with Olushola Ricketts, speaks on his fatherhood experience

How would you describe your role as a father?

It brings many limitations, but inasmuch as it does that, it helps to put you in perspective. It helps to check your excesses as a man because you know there are a lot of people looking up to you for survival. Marriage is a moderator and a regulator.

How did you feel when your first child arrived?

I had twins – a boy and a girl. I felt a total joy from within when I became a father. I don’t know how else to explain it, but the feeling was awesome.

Were you not scared of taking care of two babies at the same time?

For me, it was what I had craved right from the day I married. I wished for it, prayed for it, waited for it and it came to me. I think I am extremely blessed to get what I wanted.

Were you in the labour room during your wife’s childbirth?

No, I wasn’t in the theatre with her during the birth of our children. I think I was working on that day.

Would you have preferred two boys?

Just as I told you, my wish came true. It wasn’t the first time I wished for something and I got it.

Were you ready financially and psychologically when you got married?

There is no perfect time to get married, as one cannot be totally ready. All you need is to pray to God to guide your steps. There will always be challenges in marriage; it is left for the couple to accommodate each other’s excesses and see how they can make things work.

At what age did you get married?

I married at 26; I don’t think it was too young or old. I felt it was the right time and she was the right person. I have been married for over 20 years.

Did you lose female fans after marriage?

Female fans are not interested in sleeping with you; they are only in love with your acting skills. Once you are a good actor, people will love your movies.

Also, as a man or woman, you have to take care of your appearance. That is the first thing that attracts people to you. As an actor, you have to go to the gym regularly.

Do you use the cane on your children?

I don’t need to use the cane to correct them. I talk to them and try to make them understand what they did wrong. Though I caned them occasionally, I don’t want them to develop a thick skin for it. If they get used to the cane, it will not stop them from disobeying me or their mother. You can deprive your children of seeing television or visiting their friends. Using the cane all the time will not help the situation.

How do you appreciate them whenever they impress you?

I bring them close, hug and play with them like they are my playmates. With that, they will understand what they need to do to make you happy.

Are there signs that your children might follow in your footsteps?

I cannot control their lives. My duty is to give them a good education. Whatever they pick as their own vocation, I pray they succeed in it. They are still young; they are just six.

What did you learn from your dad that has helped you as a father?

I learnt I shouldn’t discriminate. My father is hard-working, loving, amiable and God fearing. His life has shaped things I do. I don’t get involved in anything that will tarnish my image or my family’s name.

What is your secret to success?

I think I have a mutable face in the craft and I am committed to my job. But beyond everything, I owe God my success as He puts me where I am today.

Was there a time you wanted to quit acting?

There was a time they placed bans on actors. These bans can be published or silent. When they don’t publish it, the marketers can decide among themselves to boycott you for some reasons. When it happens, it will be very hard for you to survive. I experienced this.

How did you become popular in the Yoruba movie industry despite being a native of Delta State?

I am a Lagosian by birth and I understand the street. I also married a Yoruba woman.

When was your highest point as a father?

My highest point was when my children were born, while my lowest point was when my son fell ill seriously. We didn’t know what was wrong and he was in the hospital for a while. I was so worried. I thank God for showing us mercy.

Do you still wish to have more children?

We have people who don’t have one. I have two; so, what else do I want? I said I wanted twins and I had it. I am the most grateful man on earth.

For those who have five children, I guess they love that. But for me, I am satisfied with my two children and I don’t intend to increase the number.

Did your wife agree with your decision to have two children?

Before we married, we agreed on this. I didn’t just wake up and say I wanted only two kids. But she always tells me she doesn’t mind having one more. I guess she got the idea from her communication with friends. I have told her it was what we discussed and agreed on.

How often do you spend time with your children?

Anytime I am not on set, I am home. I think that compensates for the times I am not home.

Do you take your children to locations?

No, I don’t fancy that. I distance my kids from my work. I want them to have their own privacy and grow up to do whatever they want to do.

What do your children call you at home?

They call me daddy, but at times they call me Rykardo. I don’t feel awkward whenever they call me by my name because that is what people call me outside. We just laugh when they call me Rykardo.

Do you visit their school?

Of course, they want me to come to their school. But when I take them to school, I just drop them at the gate and go my way.

How do they react whenever they see you on screen?

They scream and feel excited.

Would you be comfortable discussing sex and relationship with your girl child?

Yes, I will. That is the only way I can educate her.

How do you relax?

I relax by watching television and football matches. I also like to listen to songs while driving. Occasionally, I hang out with my friends.

How do you describe your style?

I love fashion, but I don’t like to follow trends. I like to wear what I feel comfortable in.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]