Father partly to blame if his child becomes a criminal –Basorge Tariah Jnr.
Nigerian actor and comedian, Basorge Tariah Jnr., talks to TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN about his life as a father

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood means a sense of responsibility, a privilege and honour of mentorship. Fatherhood means being a guardian and a custodian. A person, who shows love, provides for the family and most importantly, sets a child in the right path. Generally, it is an ultimate sense of responsibility.

When did you become a father?

I became a father about 17 years ago.

Would you say you were too young or too old to be a father at the time?

No. I was mature enough to be a father at the time. I was married before I became a father, so that means that I was mature and prepared for fatherhood.

What were your fears before you became a father?

There was no serious fear really but I had doubts whether I would live up fully to what is expected of me as a father. Living up to the responsibilities of being a father, I wanted to be better than my father. My father was very fantastic but I just wanted to be better. Once one expects a child and he or she comes, one will understand the spirituality of fatherhood that one is to help build a nation, destiny and the next generation of leaders.

When my children came, I took it with lots of excitement because I know it’s a gift many people crave. When one has a child, one should think about those who don’t have.

It is important to treasure a child and know that is a responsibility. If one’s child becomes a criminal, one should know that it’s partly one’s fault. One probably did not pay enough attention. Generally, there was no fear. I just wanted to be better and I think I am doing better.

Were you in the labour room with your wife during the birth of any of your children?

Yes, I was with my wife in the labour room for the birth of all my children except one – my daughter. I was at an event and immediately I heard of her birth, I quickly ran there to meet her. I remember I slept there in my suit.

What did the experiences teach you?

It is an amazing thing to see how a child is being given birth to by a woman. It is also humbling to see what a woman goes through to give birth. It also helped me to appreciate my wife a lot for enduring that. It is a huge sense of responsibility; I plant the child but she bears the child. It is my responsibility to give her the strength she needs to be able to sail through. That is one thing I have been able to do well over the years; to accept my wife’s strength and our roles in the family and in the lives of our children. My family comes first to me.

Are you the same person at home as you are on the screen?

I can only answer that when I know what people think about me. I am a worker, a craftsman on the road and on the screen. But in the house, I am a husband and a father. I am a responsible man. I am a handy man. I do everything in the house – I work, clean and run errands.

Which of your movies do your children tell you they love most?

I really don’t question them. I think they love lots of my movies but I think their favourite is Do Good.

What do they tease you about?

I don’t know, but they just tell me that I am funny.

Do they have a nickname for you?

I would not know but they call me father and all sorts. I don’t know if they have a nickname for me.

What are the values you learnt from your father which you are instilling in your children?

I learnt hard work from my father and I have also been teaching my children to be hardworking, not to depend on anybody to do their house chores. I go to the market. At Falomo market and some other markets, they know me. It is my way of teaching them by example that they have to be responsible.

Which of them is taking after you in your career path?

I don’t make rules for them. But my first daughter likes to play the keyboard and piano, while my second daughter loves the stage. But she doesn’t seem to have an interest in acting. I wouldn’t know if she would be like me because I am interested in the arts, music and acting.

Do you wish any of them follow in your career path?

I don’t like to make decisions for them on their career choices. The path I want for them is the path of happiness; whatever they choose is their decision. In my case, my father wanted me to be a lawyer and I kicked against it. I chose my career because it is what I am comfortable doing. I don’t want to make the same mistake with them. I will not choose any career path for them to follow. My job is to guide them and that is what I will do.

I want them to be fulfilled in whatever career they choose. I will try to understand what they want to do so that I can help shape them to be excellent in their preferred careers.

How do you bond with your family?

I am a family man. Everything about me is family, and everything I have is for my family. Whenever I am at home, I stay at home completely with them. Whenever I am home, we are together playing, cooking, reading and having a conversation.

How do you celebrate them whenever they make you proud?

I talk with them. I appreciate them and I don’t put pressure on them. I tell them that I am proud of them and that I am proud to be their father. I believe that is what every child wants to hear. I know that it shows I support them and they always do things that make me proud.

How do you discipline them whenever they act up?

I don’t beat my children when they do wrong. I only talk to them. My conversation is usually in two parts. In the first part, I tell them I am unhappy with what they have done and I let them know how disappointed I am when they do wrong. In the second, I tell them why what they did is wrong and how they could have done it better.

Have you ever received a gift from your children?

Yes. I get gifts from my children all the time. The gifts are personal to me; so, I won’t disclose them to you. But whatever they give me is special. I value a birthday card, the same way I value a wristwatch. Whatever they give me has much value and I cannot devalue it for whatever reasons.

What have been your challenges as a father?

The challenge of every father is to take care of his children and give them the best.

What is your advice to other fathers?

Fathers should learn to be their children’s friends. They should remember that they are to guide them. Be a mentor to their children, be close to them and not just to provide money and comfort and abandon them. Children need a best friend and not just a father. They need someone they can trust and rely on. If one wants one’s children to make one proud, one should lead by example. They should be proud to call them their fathers by leading a straight and honest life. They also need to show them by their actions that they love their mothers. Besides, it is essential for them to communicate with their children and make them know that family comes first always.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]