I can’t bring myself to cane my children — Oladipo
The Commissioner for Arts and Culture in Ogun State, Mr. Olumuyiwa Oladipo, tells OLUSHOLA RICKETTS about his experience as a father

How has it been for you as a father?

I am a lover of children since my youthful days. As a matter of fact, I was a teacher in the children department of my church. There is a need to guide the younger ones; they don’t have to be your blood relations.

I feel there must be a strong bond between the father and his children. As a father, you must be able to perform your duties amicably.

Were you ready financially before marriage?

Being financially ready is relative, but I am certain I was ready emotionally. I dated my wife for seven years before marriage; the marriage was just a formality.

When did you tie the knot?

I married my wife at age 30, but given another chance, I would have loved to get married earlier. Once you get married to your wife, age is just a number. If I had married earlier, by now, I would have put more things in place.

Did your wife give you a tough time while trying to woo her?

Of course, every Nigerian woman will always want to play hard to get. But wooing her was not much of a problem. When God has a hand in something, it goes on smoothly.

I just returned from my National Youth Service Corps in Rivers State when I met her. I went to my hometown, Sagamu, for a festival, and she came with my cousin to celebrate with us. I saw her and told my cousin I wanted to know her. My cousin told me that if I was not ready for marriage, I shouldn’t disturb her. Later, I also discovered she was decent and God made her for me.

How did you feel when you held your first child?

I thank God for His mercy. It is exciting when you see yourself being reproduced. My first child is a boy, but I didn’t disturb myself about the gender when my wife was pregnant. I am blessed with children that I am proud of. My first child is 15-year-old, while my last child is six-year-old.

Were you apprehensive during your wife’s first labour?

I wasn’t involved; I was not even in the country at the time. They just called me that she had put to bed. I have never been involved in any childbearing. If you are a keen follower of Nollywood and you have experienced childbirth scenes, you will not want to see it in real life.

Also, years ago, my mother died two weeks after she had her last child. I can still recollect that ugly day and I wish it will never occur to my enemy, not to say my wife or one dear to me. In a way, my mother’s experience has made me to fear childbirth.

How do you discipline your children?

I pamper my children a lot. If you spare the rod, you spoil the child, but I cannot whip a child unless I am pushed to the extreme. I will rather scold them than use the cane on my children. But my wife is strict and I understand that we cannot be both soft on them. I try to stay keep a distance once she wants to discipline her children. Even my younger siblings always say I am spoiling my children.

How do you appreciate them once they impress you?

I hug them; I kiss them and of course, once in a while, we go shopping.

What name do they call you at home?

They call me dad. Though they’ve never left the country before, they speak English like people abroad. I guess they watch some of these things on television. But at times, they call me by my nickname. I am Muyiwa and my siblings call me Muyi; so, whenever my children want to create fun, they call me Muyi.

What’s your major challenge as a father?

I travel a lot; I don’t get to see my children regularly. I am always happy anytime I am together with my family.

What did you learn from your father that has helped in training your kids?

Pampering my kids is a habit I inherited from my father, but I lost him at a relatively tender age. I was 10 when my mother died, while I was 14 when my father died.

Growing up, how did you cope without parents?

It was quite an experience. I grew up with my uncle and he was everything to my siblings and me. Despite the fact that he is blessed with his own children, he did his best to fill the vacuum created by my father’s loss. But at times, as a child, I wished my biological parents were alive.

How did you get to where you are today?

I grew up in Ijebu Ode, but I am from Sagamu in Ogun State. I studied history at the University of Lagos and later proceeded to study law at the Olabisi Onabanjo University. I was called to bar in 1991 and I served till 1999.

Since I had the interest to help people, I saw politics as an opportunity to achieve the dream. In 1999, I won an election into the Ogun State House of Assembly to represent Sagamu II State Consistency. I was also elected as the speaker of the House of Assembly, but my party was voted out in 2003.

When Senator Ibikunle Amosun became the governor of Ogun State, I was appointed as the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs where I worked for four years. When Amosun was re-elected for a second term as a governor in 2015, I became the Commissioner for Culture and Tourism.

What were the challenges you faced on your way to the top?

I didn’t face anything than the expected challenges. There were issues of money and conspiracy. I trusted people who later betrayed me. But to the glory of God, I have been able to conquer my challenges.

Will you allow your children to go into politics?

Yes, I will. We are still growing democratically in Nigeria. But by the time I leave politics in the next 15 years, Nigeria would have been a better place and I would encourage my children to go into politics.

Can you discuss sex and relationship with your girl child?

I am ready for that. My daughter will be Miss Nigeria someday and I am ready to be her manager. I have told her. It is wrong when you conclude that all models are whores. It depends on how you train your girl child. If you don’t get her exposed at a tender age to the vices of the world and you guide her accordingly, she will grow up to be your pride.

What has fatherhood changed about you?

Once you become a father, you become more responsible. Before marriage and family set in, it is about me alone. Being a father has changed my life and it has also widened my knowledge.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]