My wife sent me out of labour room because of my red shirt –Eghagha
A former Commissioner for Higher Education in Delta State and Head, Department of English, University of Lagos, Prof. Hope Eghagha, shares his fatherhood experience with OLUSHOLA RICKETTS

How would you describe your experience as a father?

To be a father is a unique experience. Once one brings children to the world, one has to cater for them and share in their physiological as well as emotional pains. One also shares in their joys and successes. Fatherhood places huge responsibilities on one because a father is there for his children all through their stages of life. Despite doing a lot as a father, one gets a physiological satisfaction to see one’s offspring growing.

Were you financially stable when you wanted to start a family?

I wasn’t financially stable, but I was ready emotionally and psychologically. I was a graduate assistant when I married the woman I love. But despite struggling and not having anything, she was ready to marry me. We had the conviction that we would struggle together and by the grace of God, it is over 33 years since we tied the knot. From my little savings, we did a small wedding.

Were you scared prior to your getting married?

We had known each other as friends for over seven years. She understood me and I understood her. She knew my limitations, the size of my pocket and the kind of person I was. I also knew she was someone who could cope with me in all circumstances. That is very important. Some people wait till they are extremely comfortable before marriage and it defines one’s relationship. The implication of such is that once one’s finances are no longer steady, one sees a different person in such woman.

How did you meet your wife?

We met in church as youths in 1997; we were always part of church programmes. As a youth, I was the leader of the boys while she was the leader of the girls. We started as friends, but later, I realised I liked her and I found out that she liked me too.

Didn’t she give you a tough time while asking her out?

My case with her was different because we had been friends before I told her my intention. Our relationship evolved over time and it took years.

I wasn’t confused at all on my decision to marry her because I knew what I wanted very early in life. Right from my secondary schools, I knew I wanted to be a professor. When I saw her, I knew I would marry her but I didn’t tell her. She was beautiful, godly, religious and intelligent. Even when we had to travel and there was a distance, I always knew that I had a wife already. I think marrying her was God’s plan for me and this explains why the marriage has endured. But it doesn’t mean that it has been very smooth all the way. It wasn’t easy at the initial stage when the children started coming in.

As a lecturer too, funds were not enough and I had to pick up other jobs to get more money. Also, from an early stage in marriage, we had people we trained alongside our children.

Did you have any gender preference for your first child?

I really wanted a girl child because I grew up in a home dominated by boys. I have two sisters in a family of nine. One was five years older than me while I was six years older than the other. So, I didn’t have any girl I bonded with. At the point of starting my own family, however, I said I didn’t mind having a girl child as my first and God blessed me with her. But after her, three boys came to into my world.

Were you apprehensive when your wife was in labour?

That is normal. But one thing that helped us during the birth of our first child was the fact that our parents were alive. The two women took charge and they took things calmly. When I saw everyone looking calm, I was calm too.

What can you recall about the birth of your first child?

We were together that evening and she felt the pressure. By then, we were already reading books about what to do when expecting a child. We had brought things and were fully prepared. When she felt the signs, we rushed her to the hospital. Although I followed her to the theatre, she later sent me out. I was surprised but I had to listen to her.

Did she tell you while she sent you out of the labour room?

She told me. She said I wore a red shirt she didn’t like. I liked the red shirt a lot, but she wasn’t comfortable seeing red in the theatre. She told me years later.

Since our first child, however, I didn’t stay with her in the labour room. The other two boys were born when I wasn’t present. For the last child, I was present in the hospital but I wasn’t inside the labour room.

Do you still wish to have a girl child?

No, I am done. I always see children as people one should love despite their gender. Having male or female kid is a social construct, but I don’t subscribe to that. Now, many women are successful. Also, women tend to look after their parents than the men because men are under work and family pressure. Girls remain committed to their parents, especially their fathers. I have never subscribed to the idea that I must have two boys and two girls.

How did you discipline your children?

For the first two kids, I was very hard on them, particularly the boy, Edirin. I wanted to nurture them well; so, initially, I used the cane but I stopped it very early. Word of mouth became the norm and I didn’t have reasons to flog the last two kids.

But you cannot blame me for being hard on my first two kids. I grew up in the house of a teacher and he used the cane on us if we fell out of line. I imbibed the culture in training my kids. At a time, I gave up completely. I felt there were no needs to be brutal to them if they could listen to me.

Using word of mouth to deal with children is better. When one flogs a kid, one uses a lot of energy and one also inflicts pains on them. At an early age in their lives, they might resent one and conclude that one is a wicked father.

How did you reward your children whenever they impressed you?

We took them to fun places and for shopping. If I travelled and I bought items, I gave anyone who performed well academically more to challenge others. I also encouraged them a lot.

When do you regard as your happiest day as a father?

I have plenty of happy days. For instance, seeing my children graduating from universities made me very happy. I was also happy when my daughter and son married too.

How do you combine your roles as a teacher and father?

A teacher is a surrogate father to the children. As a teacher, one mentors people academically and teaches them morals. The only difference between the class and the family is that the family is a smaller unit. One also checks their assignments the way one checks the assignments of one’s students.

Also, as a teacher, one’s time is flexible. The only time is not with one’s family much is when one travels for a conference and it is not often. My wife was also a teacher; so, we both had time for our children.

What were the major things you learnt from your father which helped in training your children?

My father was a disciplinarian who loved his children and tried to show us the way. I became closer to him while I was growing up. I was never afraid to express myself as I later saw him as a friend than a father. I started dealing with my kids as a friend as well right from when they were young. We would talk and I tried to know their worries and aspirations. I didn’t try to impose things I couldn’t achieve on them. I lead my life so they should lead theirs too. It is vital to allow the children to develop their full potential.

Do you have a child who is into academics like you?

We are still watching. I know that one of them studied English, but he is still trying to navigate his way through life. At the moment, I don’t know the future, but he has already expressed an interest in teaching at the university level.

Did you discuss intimate things like sex with your children?

With my girl child, I didn’t have a conversation on sex or men with her. My wife did that. For the boys, when it became absolutely necessary, yes, I did have a conversation with them on certain issues. But I didn’t do much as I would have loved to; I was too sensitive. If I had to bring them up again, I would go into it earlier in their lives. However, with God’s grace, I think they have grown up as responsible children.

What is your major challenge as a father?

The major challenge is to ensure I provide for my family and create happiness for everyone.

When you were kidnapped, did you fear that you might not see your children again?

That was a constant fear. They kept threatening me and I felt very sad, especially for my last son. He was quite young then; I think he was 14. For others, I felt I had done enough for them to continue to live. Two had graduated while one was in the university at the time. At some point, I said every child would find their way in life once there was determination. We have people who lost their parents at a tender age and they made it in life. I prayed to God to guide the children if my life ended by the situation.

How was the reception when you saw your children after being freed?

I didn’t see them together. I saw my daughter through social media. She was in the United Kingdom then; so, we exchanged photos. When I came to Lagos, I saw the other three. They were already relieved when they saw that I was freed; they just wanted to see how I looked. But I made sure that I was in a good shape before they saw me so as not to create further tension. I lost a lot of weight. For the first eight days, I didn’t eat anything but water.

What were the lessons you learnt from the experience?

One must always trust in God and the need to be good to people. My kidnappers kept telling me that I was a good man, though I didn’t understand why they had to kidnap a good man. They must have heard one or two things I had done.

What were the challenges you faced rising to the top of your career?

It was not easy to effectively combine private and academic life. I needed to do my obligations to my family and still focus on my work to be able to get to the top. That was the challenge. The money I was getting from the university system was not enough; so, I needed to do other things like consultancy.

What do your children tease you about?

While they were growing up, I was not flexible with their bedtime. Once it was 9pm, I would tell them it was bedtime. Due to that, they started calling me ‘bedtime’.

Would you suggest teaching for your children?

I don’t prescribe a career for my children because people make it in life in different ways. They have made their choices and I simply drew their attention to the pros and cons. If I could get this far in life and I have been able to raise my children, a teaching job is good.

Were there things fatherhood changed about you?

I have always lived a moderate life. I never slept out and I was never a party man. I didn’t keep friends who drank all night. If I went out, I would tell them and return before 8pm.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]