I didn’t like it that I got pregnant too quickly after wedding –Uhalla
An entrepreneur, Mrs. Temitope Uhalla, shares her journey to motherhood with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN

What is your baby’s name?

He has many names, but we call him Zion Uhalla.

Is he your first child?

Yes, he is our first child.

When did you give birth to him?

I gave birth to him 5.30pm on Friday, May 25, 2018. Incidentally, we share the same birth month. He weighed 3.6kg at birth.

How did you come up with your baby’s names?

This particular name was given to him by his father. It was a particular evening that he told me that he needed a name for our baby and I said, go and get it. The next day he came into the room and said, ‘baby I have a name for my baby boy’ and he mentioned Zion. I was just laughing because of the way he entered the room with so much excitement.

What were your first thoughts when you found out that you were pregnant?

I was thinking and asking myself whether I was actually ready (to be a mother) because I just got married and I haven’t enjoyed myself with my husband, but really I didn’t use any protection which was needless anyway. I didn’t know it will be so fast. In fact, it was too quick. I was imagining how the baby would be growing inside me. The fact that I can’t see what’s inside of me also got me a little bit on my toes. I had so many unanswered questions like, ‘did I have what it takes to raise a child?’ and whole lots were going through my mind. But in all of it, I was excited that I was carrying a life inside of me.

How did you confirm you were pregnant?

I saw my period on the morning of my wedding day and the next month I was waiting for it to come; I can’t just accept the fact that I was pregnant. My husband asked me some questions to examine me because he is a medical doctor. After asking me those questions, he told me to do a pregnancy test. I said ‘no, it can’t be pregnancy; maybe my menstrual cycle was just delayed’.

My husband was just smiling and said, ‘Okay, it is delayed menses’. After I had waited for my menstruation to come the previous month and I didn’t see it, I went out to get the PT kit. I didn’t want to go to my husband’s hospital to check because everybody knows me as the doctor’s wife. I didn’t want everybody in the hospital to know that I was pregnant.

When I got to the house, my husband said, ‘Let’s do the test’ and we checked, the double red lines were so obvious. My husband was so excited that he carried me up and screamed, while I, on the other hand, had mixed feelings. I told him ‘dear, can we please check again I want to be double sure’. We checked again it was as if the double red lines appeared deeper than the first time we checked.

What did you enjoy the most about being pregnant?

I think I enjoy the fact that my husband was always there to love me, to care and support me all through. It is so beautiful and sweet when you have someone walking the pregnancy journey with you.

What techniques did you use to get through the pain of contractions?

I really didn’t engage any technique. All I can remember was that my husband and my cousin were beside me to calm me.

Describe your labour room experience

I had a Caesarean Section because of the position of the baby and the weight of the baby too. Also, I was overdue. It was just the right decision that I go through the process.

It was a quick one since it was a surgery. I am sure I was given some pain reliever but I don’t know which. I was also given some after the surgery but I did not take them for long before I recovered.

What were your first thoughts when you saw your baby?

I know motherhood is a calling; it is not a hobby. It is not something I can just do because I want to. The first time I saw my baby, I was so emotional that I was just crying and praying for him.

I really desire a beautiful life for him. I want to see him grow, thanking God for how He helped us as parents to raise him to that point where he is also thanking God for his parents.

What is the scariest story you have heard about pregnancy or labour?

I have heard so many strange stories but the scariest that I have heard was of a mother who died during childbirth. But I never allowed that to affect me. I believed that I was going to come out alive and be the mother of my child and I am grateful that my wish came to pass.

What is the best part about being a mum?

For me, the sweetest thing about being a mum is when my baby reaches out to me with so much excitement knowing without doubt that I have what he wants and the fact that I truly have it; it’s a thing of joy. Another thing that brings joy to me is watching him grow every day. The love and snuggles; the bond we have created is so strong and pure. The connection between us cannot be explained.

Did you have any craving during pregnancy?

At a point, I craved spicy foods. Almost all through pregnancy, I will tell my husband I wanted a particular food, but at the sight of it, I wouldn’t feel like eating again. I also could not stand fish and meat during pregnancy and I loved a very clean environment.

What is your biggest fear as a mother?

I don’t have any fear but just a concern about raising a child in this perverse world. I am trusting God for wisdom on how to train him to the extent that he would trust our judgment as his parents and not give ears to strange teachings that is predominant in our present society.

Anyone special you’d like to thank for helping you through pregnancy?

My husband literally carried the pregnancy with me. The times I will tell him I want a particular food and despite the stress he would go through getting it or preparing it, many times I didn’t eat it. The times I want my house to appear new and neat with good air freshener and him going all the way to have it done; the time he would tell me that I was strong; many millions and beautiful times of encouragement during the pregnancy. He has been so wonderful. Thanks to my darling. He is really my better half.

How are you coping with the changes pregnancy has brought to your body?

I was still looking beautiful during pregnancy just that my face was fat. My body weight and size weight increased too but I was consoled with the fact that carrying a baby is a thing of joy. If it causes the changes, no problem. Immediately I was delivered of my baby, I bounced back, not totally my previous size, but I’m getting there.

What are you doing to get rid of baby fat?

I’m doing nothing to get rid of it but the stress of taking care of the baby is enough for me to shed weight. But to get back my previous size, I need to do some exercise and work on my diet.

How do you combine house chores with nursing a baby?

The Lord is my strength. I plan my day ahead from the night before. Many times, it is not easy when my baby is demanding my attention, but I try as much as possible to make sure I accomplish at least 70 per cent of what I plan to do and leave the rest till the next day so as not to be overstressed. Sometimes, I learn to lower my expectations about what I can accomplish in a day. Some days, all I can do is to keep the baby safe, warm and fed.

How do you balance the attention between your husband and your child?

I always say to people that my husband balance me. He understands me and the whole stress of the baby. But when he sees that I’m trying to give more attention to the baby, he will tell me so I would adjust.

Any advice for future mums?

Motherhood is a million little moments that God weaves together with grace, redemption, laughter, tears and most of all, love. Allow yourself to be a beginner no one starts off being excellent. Choose joy in every moment. Don’t stress yourself, do your best and forget the rest. Enjoy the process, believe in God, and enjoy the people around you. It is also very important to work with your doctor. Children are gifts from God and know so well that God is responsible to give you all that you need to raise them.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]