Handling a toxic partner
Living with a toxic partner can be very difficult as such always annoys and causes you heartaches. Here are a few ways to manage a toxic spouse

Recognise traits that make you easy prey

Assessing what you bring to the table doesn’t mean taking responsibility or the blame for someone’s mistreatment of you. Think about the interactions you have had with your partner that made you unhappy. Focus on why you felt as you did, not what you felt and see if you can discern a pattern that will work better for both of you.

Explore your reactivity

Without taking the blame for the dynamics, you should look at the extent at which you react and under-react when you have an argument. According to www.psychologytoday.com, a controlling or bullying spouse will regard your under-reaction as permission to keep treating you in precisely the same manner. Learn to stand up to them but in a calm way.

Trust your guts

One reason insecurely attached people stay in hurtful relationships is a lack of trust in themselves or their judgment. If your default position is to always rationalise toxic behaviour or give your partner the benefit of the doubt, then this is the moment to stop. If you find yourself falling back into the pattern of making excuses or rationalising his or her toxic behaviour, stop.

Guard your boundaries and exit strategy

Set boundaries on the kind of communication you will have with him. People with insecurity issues may have trouble recognising what a healthy boundary looks like and don’t always know how to negotiate them. You don’t need to be rude, abrasive, or accusatory; in fact, it’s important that you are not. However, you should be firm and decisive.

Anticipate push-back or retaliation

It’s likely that your partner enjoys controlling you or likes to flaunt his or her power over you. Once you start setting boundaries and confronting them, don’t expect your partner to stop at once. The chances are good that he or she will redouble efforts to keep the dynamic going by manipulating or insulting you to feel better about themselves.

Don’t normalise abusive behaviour

If you have been in a toxic relationship for a long time or you grew up around people who used words as weapons, it is time to put an end to it. They may have demeaned, marginalised, dismissed you or your other family members. Don’t rationalise their behaviour by saying, “They are only words”; denying that they were ever said or asserting that the real problem was your sensitivity. If a person refuses to answer you or ignores you, it is also an abusive behaviour of the silent variety. Most liars are toxic people because they tell partial truths or a carefully edited version of events and, once challenged, they blame you for not asking the right questions. If that becomes the case, remember that emotional and verbal abuses are never okay.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]