I lack the strength to be a polygamist like my dad — Mudi
Top clothier, Mudiaga Enajemo, better known as Mudi, shares his fatherhood experience with OLUSHOLA RICKETTS

Would you describe yourself as a fulfilled father?

Yes; seeing my children makes me happy. We have married people who have yet got a child, but I have a boy and a girl. However, being a father is quite challenging when one looks at the situation of the country’s economy. For me, the fewer one’s children, the better. I have two children and I am satisfied with that. But if it is God’s will for me to have more children, it will happen.

Did you witness the birth of your children?

For some reasons, I was not around during the birth of my children, but I am not afraid of being with my wife during childbirth. If I must be there, I will.

Were you financially stable when you had your first child?

I had my first child while I was still in secondary school, years ago. I wouldn’t say I was prepared for it, but I was lucky that my mother was able to help me and she made things easier for me. Though I don’t like saying this publicly; when I look at my son now, I am always thankful to God I gave birth to him when I did. He is 30 years old now. My situation has made me to believe that certain things happen for a purpose.

How did your wife react when you told her about your son?

Luckily for me, it was not an issue. It is all about having a sincere communication, as we all have things we did in the past.

Was there a time you wished you didn’t marry?

I have never regretted getting married because I prepared for it. I even saved money towards my marriage ceremony.

How old were you when you married?

I was 35 years old when I got married. I didn’t marry earlier because I wanted to stabilise my business. Even when I married and I was using a two-bedroom flat as my office, I stayed in a room apartment for years. When I moved to a six-bedroom flat, I was still living in a room apartment.

How did you convince your wife to stay in a room apartment?

She felt bad, but for me, it was business before any other thing. By the time I moved into a two-bedroom flat, she then understood my point of view. I couldn’t be living large and my office was uncomfortable. It didn’t make any sense to me, as I felt there was a need to build a structure for my brand first.

Similarly, there was a time my elder brother told me to move out of my room apartment, saying that his friends were always mocking him that despite my fame, I lived in a room. But I told him I knew what I wanted to achieve. At a time, all I wanted to do was to expand my business.

How did you meet your wife?

We met in Lagos in the course of my job, though she does not do fashion. I have always believed that once it was time for marriage, I would locate my wife.

How do you ensure that your job as a clothier doesn’t affect your role as a father?

Like I said earlier, it is about communication and understanding. Do you prefer being with your family for 24 hours and there is no food or to work hard to bring money home? For me, I try to strike a balance. It is normal for one’s wife to complain about one’s absence at home, but I try to make her see reasons.

How do you discipline your children?

My first child is a grown-up, but my girl child is six. I don’t use the cane on her, but I can be very tough on her sometimes. The way I was brought up doesn’t make me ignore certain things and I don’t want to spoil my children. Once in a while, there is nothing wrong to scold one’s children. I am where I am today because of the upbringing I got from my parents.

How do you reward them?

I buy them gifts or we visit exciting places.

Do you make clothes for your children?

Once in a while, I do for my son, but I don’t make female clothes. When I newly ventured into fashion, I was making clothes for both genders. I deliberately stopped making clothes for women about 10 years ago because I wanted to focus fully on men’s fashion. Though women buy clothes more than men, money is not everything.

Have you ever made clothes for your wife?

I used to make clothes for her, but that was years ago. If she wants clothes, there are boutiques and we have designers who can make for her.

What do you regard as your happiest moment as a father?

Whenever I look at my kids, I am happy. Seeing my children gives me joy.

What name do your children call you at home?

They call me dad.

What did fatherhood change about you?

Since I became a father, I became now more tolerant. Yes, it is hard to tolerate certain things but one must be able to manage situations as a family man.

What were the fond memories you shared with your father?

My father died about 15 years ago. He married many wives and gave birth to 27 children. But he was able to manage his home till his death. Nowadays, people struggle to manage one wife, not to talk of marrying plenty wives. Also, I don’t blame my father for marrying many wives because it was the trend at the time.

Do you plan to marry more than a wife?

No, I cannot. I am too busy to start marrying wives. My job takes my time a lot; so, I don’t have the time and strength to accommodate many women in my life.

What did you learn from your father that has helped you to be a better father?

My father was thorough and disciplined. I learnt these virtues from him. Also, my father knew how to play politics even in the house. While we were growing up and he saw the need to give me money, he always ensured that I was alone with him. I felt he did this so that the other children or wives wouldn’t feel bad. God blessed him with wisdom and I learnt from him.

Did you think you would be popular when you started your clothing line?

There was no such thought. I was just doing my work and remained positive. In whatever one does, one must be prayerful and upright. I will be celebrating the 25th anniversary of Mudi Africa this year. Inasmuch as certain people might feel I have achieved all, I am still challenged to do more.

What is your success secret?

With all sense of humility, getting things done myself is one of my success secrets. But I thank God for the wisdom, drive and discipline He has given me. I trust people working with me, but they might not have the strength or discipline to get the job done as one does. In this part of the world, it is extremely difficult to delegate responsibilities to people.

Do you operate in other countries?

I have a store in Accra, Ghana. I am also about to open a second store in Accra too. I have a store in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire, and in Dakar, Senegal. But I shut down the Dakar’s store because it was not doing well. I have stores in Nairobi, Kenya, and Johannesburg, South Africa, too. Also, do not forget that I have stores in three places in Nigeria – Abuja, Port Harcourt and Lagos.

How would you compare fashion business in Nigeria to Ghana’s?

Putting aside the fact that charity begins at home, Nigeria is the biggest market in Africa when it comes to fashion. We have the buying power, population and there is a market for clothes. In Nigeria, fashion-wise, people want to outdo one another.

How did you penetrate the Ghanaian fashion industry?

I opened my store in Ghana in 2009, but it took about two years to stabilise things. I guess they were new to my brand, which was understandable.

How would you describe your style?

I like simplicity with a touch of elegance. As a designer, I make wearable and practical clothes. I make clothes people can relate to.

What were the challenges you faced on your way to the top?

The first was human management. It is extremely difficult to manage people, but I did the best I could and I understood I could not satisfy everyone.

When do you plan to retire?

Once I cannot continue to work, then I can think of retiring. But at present, I am enjoying what I do. Whenever I see beautiful materials, I feel like working. Sometimes, on Sundays, I go to work.

How often do you make clothes for yourself?

I make clothes for myself regularly; I don’t buy clothes. If I have a new design, I rock it first and look out for people’s reactions.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]