Coping with a spouse’s health challenge
There are certain things in life we cannot control such as ill health. If you are married to someone with health challenges, here are a few tips on how to show them love and support

Recognise the illness

When a spouse becomes ill, the worst thing one can do is to act like it doesn’t exist. Remember that this is not the time to be in denial. You must acknowledge the pain he or she is in and the fear they have. Learn about it and you will be in a better position to be empathetic. Stay close and offer encouragement.

Talk about it

Being there, day in and day out, with a spouse who has a health challenge can certainly take a toll on your own mind and heart. So, it is important that you have people in your life that you can talk to about what you are going through. It can be a friend, counsellor or a family member. But he or she must be someone you can trust with the details of the illness as well as your feelings. Because when you are feeling down and confused, they will be there to encourage you. Also, ensure that this person is the same gender; so you won’t start having feelings for them that could be harmful to your marriage.

Be there for them

According to www.standardmedia.co.ke, when your partner is sick, you need to be around them so that they can feel cared for and loved by being present no matter how long it will take for them to recover. Be in it together and do not at any point show signs of frustration. You have to be strong and look for solutions as a couple to deal with it.

Take charge

When your spouse is unwell, you need to take charge and ensure everything is in place. This includes taking care of the children, ensuring bills are paid and keeping the house in order. If you have to step in and get a job to support the family, do so without any complaints. Do not give your spouse any reason to worry because their condition may worsen out of concern and stress.

Learn how to cope with them

We all fall sick at one point, whether it is serious or not. Treat your partner as you would like to be treated if you are unwell. Help them get through it.

Take care of yourself

When one of you is sick, the other person needs to be strong for the ailing spouse, the kids and themselves. If you have to, take some time out to breathe, think and recharge. This will help you to manage your mental well-being so as to avoid stress and depression.

Be patient

It is understandable that when your spouse is sick, they can become grumpy, moody and tired which result in temperament. Annoying as it may get, give him/her a break because at this point, they are not their normal self. Put yourself in their shoes and be patient. We all know patience is a virtue.

Ask for help

This is important, especially for men. When your spouse is sick, there is no shame in asking for help from family members, friends or even relatives. They come in handy especially when looking after the children, doing house chores and taking care of other responsibilities.

Seek professional help

At times, the situation can become too difficult to deal with alone. This happens specifically when taking care of a spouse suffering from a chronic disease. If you must, go for counselling to help you cope. Do not go through it alone.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]