I was told I became a grammarian during labour — Adefioye
An entrepreneur, Mrs. Dasola Adefioye, shares her motherhood journey with WILLIAMS BABALOLA

How old is your baby?

He is a month and 10 days old.

What is his name and how did you choose the name?

His name is Solomon Olawunmi Adefioye. His paternal granddad gave him the name.

Is he your first child?

By God’s grace, he is my first child.

What was your experience in the labour room?

Let me say it was interesting as I don’t want to say the other part. It was a confusing experience. If I felt pain this minute, it would subside the next minute. Eventually, I started feeling the pain continuously to the extent that I was unconscious of happenings around me at some point. I was in pains until I was delivered of my baby. I went into labour by 11am and I was delivered of the baby by 7pm. Because it was my first time, I thought I was going to spend less than one hour in the labour room. I didn’t imagine myself spending about eight hours in the labour room. In my pre-delivery thought, I would have returned home with my husband and baby within those hours and start doing other things. I don’t remember all that happened on that day because it was like I changed the drama at every given opportunity. I remember speaking different grammar. After I gave birth, those people around started making a joke out of the situation. I was even called a grammarian by one of the nurses.

Was your husband with you in the labour room?

No, my husband was not there with me. As a matter of fact, he wasn’t even around at all. He was busy with some other things. Like a Yoruba adage says, “A pregnant woman knows the month, but doesn’t know the date.” We didn’t know our baby was going to come on that day. It was even after I was delivered of him that he was called. He had to rush down to see his baby and me.

What are the challenges you faced while pregnant?

I had to deal with different psychological issues. Some said the child’s placenta is not where it should be while others said the baby wasn’t where he should be too. But I told them it wasn’t my portion. I then took their observations to God. I started serious prayer. I started attending several programmes to make sure I avert the evil prophecy.

As expected, I stated having nightmares although I didn’t let that disturb me. I told myself no harm shall come to me and my child. I thank God I was delivered of a bouncing baby boy.

I was also told he was sitting down. I was scared when I heard that as an expectant mother. But I held onto God and He didn’t let me down.

My mother was very supportive while I was pregnant. There were things I could do by myself but she insisted doing them for me. I was only doing the things I felt like doing. She was so supportive. I became a baby once again.

Was there anything you did frequently during pregnancy?

I was not okay. I was always spitting. It got to a point I had a private can for spittle. How my husband coped during those months is really surprising to me. At times, he would help me dispose it of the next day. During the period, he was calmer and gentler. The moment I was delivered of my son, I started giving thanks to God. This is because based on the long hours of labour, I thought I would be operated.

Was there a time you got tired of the pregnancy?

Yes, at a point in time, I was already tired and frustrated. I was always weak and sick. I almost became a liability. There were instances I would finish cooking and lose appetite. But I gathered strength from the perpetual love of my husband and from my mother’s continuous support. What I carried in my womb is no longer pregnancy; it is now a child. I give God all the glory.

How do you cope as a mother and wife?

It hasn’t been easy. Before bathing the child, feeding him and the rest, one is exhausted already. Yet, one has to do house chores which can’t be left for anybody. Whatever one is doing as a mother, whenever one hears the cries of one’s child, one will leave it to attend to him or her. My baby is the most important to me at this time. Other things can take care of themselves. He needs attention more than anyone or thing now. My husband is like Abraham. He is the father of all nations and he is highly loved. So, I owe this young boy a duty to lavish my love on him.

What food did you crave during pregnancy?

I loved rice more than any other food. It was rice that always crossed my mind when I thought of eating anything. Although mine wasn’t the extreme type of craving where one would beg for whatever one desired to eat. I was still decent with my craving, although it can not be helped at times. There was an instance I saw someone eating rice. It was the normal rice and she cooked it the normal way. The aroma got to me and I had to meet her to ask how she cooked it. Of course, it sounded funny to her because she knew she made the rice the usual way. That was how my craving worked. I would ask for the way it was prepared and try to make mine the same way. I ate rice a lot during pregnancy.

How did you find out you were pregnant?

My system changed. I started feeling funny. I didn’t know it was pregnancy at first, but I knew something about me changed. I was not expecting it at the time, so I didn’t even suspect it. I started sleeping uncontrollably. I would sleep from morning till night. Likewise, I was feeling weak at all time and in all places. I was then advised to go for a check-up. I did and it was discovered that I was pregnant. I then went to the clinic to register for antenatal in order to prepare fully for the process of carrying the pregnancy and delivery. I did antenatal out of concern for the baby’s health since it was my first time.

When did you inform your husband about the pregnancy?

I informed him immediately I was sure it was pregnancy and not typhoid or malaria. He was glad to hear about it. He reassured me of his love for our unborn child and me. Whenever I felt like giving up, that gave me more confidence.

What do you miss most about your pre-motherhood stage?

Of course, I miss some parts of me. When I have yet got a child, I enjoyed the moments with my husband when we would hangout. Before now, I enjoyed socialising. But now, that is no longer possible. It is no longer possible for me to lead such lifestyle again. There was a time I told myself that the pregnancy was like a shackle around my social life. But no matter how sweet socialising is, one will eventually leave it for better things like catering to a child.

What is your advice for pregnant women?

I advise them to be very prayerful. In the journey of pregnancy, sciences alone cannot do it. One needs God by one’s side. If there’s any report that there’s a complication, I advise them to stay strong and believe that it is God that gives children and it’s Him that can also help them to give birth safely.

I heard many scary stories that could naturally lead to miscarriage, but I didn’t let them affect me.

What were you told to avoid doing while pregnant?

I was told not to bend but I disobeyed it. I was also told not to go out at night. I said that if my shop was far from my house, would I stop trading because I was pregnant?

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]