Getting pregnant before marriage
Different strokes for different folks as TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN, in this piece, dissects the pros and cons of getting pregnant before marriage

Traditionally, marriage comes before pregnancy but in recent times, there seems to be a turn in the tide as people appear to have made a shift to pregnancy before their marriage. Some of these people shared their views with our correspondent while others still held on to the traditional belief.

Mrs. Busayo Akinlawa was already three months pregnant before she got married to her husband in 2016. For her, it is not a big deal, she told SUNDAY PUNCH.

“I was already three months pregnant before my wedding and immediately I told my fiancé that I was pregnant, we quickly began the wedding preparations. Prior to that, we had been dating for four years and we were serious about the relationship. We knew we were going to get married and the pregnancy hastened the whole process. I don’t feel bad about it at all,” she said.

Akinlanwa explained that the benefits were far more than the disadvantages especially when the two parties involved were serious about the relationship before the issue of pregnancy comes in.

“My marriage is just going to two years now and my baby is a year and six months. Some people will get married and pray and fast before they start bearing children. Ours wasn’t like that; so, I am grateful. It was easy to convince his parents that I was a very fertile lady unlike presenting medical reports; pregnancy is the real assurance,” she said while beaming with smiles.

Akinlawa isn’t the only one who belongs to this school of thought. A mother of two, Asake Bernard, also corroborated what she said though maintaining that it had to be consensual between the parties involved; otherwise, there might be trouble.

According to her, the woman should not use pregnancy as a bait to get married.

She added, “If engaged to be married, pregnancy is okay as long as you have your partner’s permission to get pregnant. That is, you must have discussed it beforehand. If not, never try to spring surprises. It may backfire.”

Women aren’t the only ones who hold such positions, some men also lent their voices to the fact that pregnancy before marriage is okay. They told SUNDAY PUNCH that it was the only way they could attest to the fact that their woman was fertile.

One of such people is Mr. Dedike Dominic who says he does not trust the 21st century lady to the extents that he would decide to get married without having any form of sexual involvement with his wife to be.

He said, “As a typical Igbo businessman, I will want to see the merchandise before I pay for it. Knowing that bride price in my place is not a small thing, I can’t risk it with these young ladies in town. I need to know that she is okay and that she still has a womb.”

For Francis Omose, his concern isn’t just for the man but the two individuals involved in the relationship.

He said, “What, if after marriage, you discover he is impotent or the lady has no womb or damaged womb due to abortions in her negative past? That is a very dangerous game; so, I will rather surprise the people around me than to surprise myself in marriage. For me, pregnancy before marriage isn’t just okay, it is important.”

Another respondent, Onyi Buchi, noted that marriage wasn’t when people were joined together in the church or anywhere else but a state of the heart.

He said, “I am so surprised why we act so primitive sometimes. Marriage is beyond when two people call others to witness their ceremony and were pronounced husband and wife. To me, it is what happens when two hearts accept to spend the rest of their lives together, both in better and bad times. So for me, I don’t mind getting my woman pregnant before the ceremony itself.”

Others, who spoke to SUNDAY PUNCH frowned on the idea strictly on religious, moral and ethical considerations. They are of the opinion that people should abide by the norms and laws that guide their beliefs and the society.

One of those people who subscribed to such school of thought is Mr. Raji Kabir, who told SUNDAY PUNCH that he believed that sex was worth waiting for.

“Pregnancy comes with different experiences you can never tell until you have one. Religiously, psychologically and morally, it is better you get pregnant after you have tied the knot,” he stated.

Also, Mr. Joseph Jinadu, who will get married to his fiancee in a couple of weeks, also agreed with Kabir by stressing that it was better to abstain from sex before marriage.

He said, “Among some tribes, if the lady has not proven her fertility by being pregnant before their wedding, the family will not accept her. Which I believe is very wrong.

“I am a Christian and I would not do anything that is against what is written in the Bible. I cannot have sex with my fiancee until we are married; it is not scriptural for us to engage in such acts.”

Mr. Samuel Damilola said he didn’t believe there was accidental pregnancy, explaining that it was a deliberate process that began with sex.

According to him, when unmarried people engage in pre-marital sex, then they should expect to get pregnant. However, he said, he doesn’t subscribe to pregnancy before marriage because he believes in celibacy.

He said, “How does one get pregnant by accident? No sex is no pregnancy. Which one is accidental pregnancy again? You call it pregnancy. Yea, that’s what it is ‘pregnancy’. For me, no sex until your marriage is sanctioned.”

Also Roseline Afolabi believes that sex before marriage is a very wrong thing to do, saying such act has negative effect even on the children produced in such union.

She added, “For me, pregnancy before marriage is bad because if you give birth to a female child, it will still occur again (in the life of the child) and it will turn to a curse in that generation.”

Another respondent, Omolara Atoyebi, also believed that sex before marriage was wrong and that anyone who found himself or herself in such situation would lack the moral grounds to advise people against such acts.

She said, “Fornication is a sin and if, in the process, one becomes pregnant or an unwanted baby is produced from such act, how will such person be able to counsel his or her own children against doing such? Those kinds of misdeeds usually carry weight of shame and ridicule. Once you find yourself in such situation, you might not be able to recover from it.

“It becomes worse when the man decides not to accept the paternity of the child; it means the woman has to go through pregnancy alone and also fight the struggles, pain, trauma and shame of carrying a pregnancy without a father. Childbearing is meant for marriage; it’s sweeter when you have someone by your side during that period of your life.”

“That is why you see some single mothers being harsh towards their children. Their harsh attitudes towards the kids could be because the father of the child refused to accept the pregnancy or that he just deceived her for sex and didn’t know it would lead to pregnancy.”

A relationship counsellor, Shamseddin Giwa, told SUNDAY PUNCH that pregnancy before marriage was totally unacceptable as the disadvantages supersedes the advantages.

According to him, as Nigerians, there are principles that guide one’s way of life, ranging from ethical, socio-cultural and even religious beliefs.

He said, “We are Nigerians; whatever it is we do, there are factors that determine who we are and what we are. We pay a lot of attention to our tribal values, religious beliefs; and these things, whether we like them or not, form a huge part of who we are.”

He explained that people tried to justify pregnancy before marriage, saying they wanted to test the fertility of their partners, describing this as from a selfish point of view.

He said, “People try to justify their positions of getting pregnant before getting married. I completely disagree with such. Here are my reasons: The first thing I would do is to ask myself how I would feel if someone does this to my sister or daughter. It wouldn’t fly with me because it puts the guy in control of the position. You can do and undo. In such situation, the man becomes the deciding factor.”

Giwa, while giving insights into the topic, told our correspondent that the term pregnancy before marriage was actually a cliché to legalise sex before marriage. He argued that in most situations, the partners were not usually sincere towards one another.

He said, “Getting pregnant before marriage isn’t usually the truth in most cases. The term get pregnant before marriage has become one of the most used terms in the book now. There is no way you would get pregnant without sex; so, it is a way of legalising sex before marriage.

“When you consider the statistics, you will discover that something usually happens along the line. How many of them really get to the end point of getting married? It is really too much a risk to take.”

Giwa also assessed the religious and cultural beliefs of such consummation, saying that Nigeria’s cultural and religion frowned against such.

He added, “There is a religious aspect which totally frowns on it. There is also a tribal side to it. Although it is difficult to judge based on all the tribes that we have in Nigeria, we can infer from the three major three tribes in the country – Hausa, Yoruba and Igbo. I think they all frown on it.”

He said pregnancy before marriage was not proper, which he likened to putting the cart before the horse.

He stated, “There are cases that I have handled. Some engagements broke a day before wedding; sometimes few weeks (before) and all because a secret was unveiled or it was discovered that someone had an affair with a close relatives and the rest.

“So, you are not married until you get married. Getting pregnant before marriage is one of the ways men now deceive ladies for sex. I have handled many cases involving young men who merely proposed to ladies just to have sex with them.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]