My husband was sent out of labour room when he got too emotional –Akintola
A housewife, Mrs. Lydia Akintola, shares her motherhood journey with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN

What is your baby’s name?

His name is IrorunOluwa Iretomiwa Akintola.

When did you give birth to him?

He was born on Sunday, August 26, exactly a few minutes past 11am. He weighed 2.5kg at birth.

Is this your first child?

Yes, he’s our first child.

Where were you and what were you doing when you went into labour?

I was at home Friday afternoon (before my delivery on Sunday) and I needed to use the restroom when I noticed that my mucus plug came out. I was a bit afraid and I expected labour pain to start immediately but it didn’t. So, I went about my usual activities. A few hours after that, I entered into passive labour; I started having mild contractions. The pain was very mild; so, I decided to still hold on, up until Saturday evening when the contractions became intense or so I thought because I was yet to see the real drama. We had to go to the hospital and the doctor confirmed that I was in labour but it was still passive and I was only about two centimetre dilated; so, I slept over at the hospital. The doctor came to check me every two hours while the contraction pain gradually increased and the interval shortened, up until the Sunday morning when the real labour started.

What were your thoughts before you entered the labour room?

Being my first, I assumed that within 30 minutes of labour, the baby will be out, but of course, I was proved wrong.

Tell us more about your labour experience.

It was my first labour experience; I was in active labour for about three hours. I will say the experience was beyond description; it was way more than what I anticipated. I had read about pregnancy and I also joined an online group where other women shared their experiences. The truth is, I always assumed that the pain was being exaggerated until I entered into active labour. The contractions started coming at about five minutes interval; Each session lasted for about a minute, but the pain was almost unbearable. Later, the contractions progressed to every one minute. By then, the pain had become so intense and I was already in the delivery room. Initially, my husband was with me in the delivery room, but after a while, he was asked to leave; his presence actually gave me strength, but when he was asked to leave, I felt so bad and alone. My husband was getting emotional about the whole issue; so, they thought if he was no longer there, I would be stronger. I was then asked to push. I think that was the hardest part of labour, the pushing practically drained me of all energy while the contraction came out more quickly. Eventually, God took control and our son came to the world at exactly 11.11am. Such a funny coincidence, considering that our wedding was on the 11/11/2017.

Did you go through any anti natal or pre natal blues?

Not exactly, but at the initial stage, especially in my first trimester, I was a bit depressed but my husband was always there to encourage me and make me feel good about myself. Initially, I was afraid and I wondered how I was going to pull through considering the way I felt at the early stage. I wondered if I will have to be that way for the next nine months or thereabout, but with the help of God and my loving husband, I was able to overcome it.

What food did you crave during pregnancy?

I craved different foods for each trimester. In my first trimester, I craved cold drinks. I was finding it difficult to drink water; so, I practically took at least a bottle of cold drink per day throughout the first trimester. During my second trimester, it was party jollof rice. I didn’t mind inviting myself to other people’s events just so I could eat jollof rice.

I remember I attended a wedding of a family friend while I was in my second trimester. While at the wedding, my table wasn’t served in time; so, I got angry because I was so famished that I promised not to eat the food. Eventually our table was served but I couldn’t resist the urge of the jollof rice. I finished the plate that I was served and did not mind an extra plate if I got more.

What was your first reaction when you found out you were pregnant?

I was surprised, excited and overwhelmed all at the same time. We just got married and my husband was actually looking forward to having a baby. I, on the other hand, was indifferent about it; I felt it was still early. When I missed my period, it was my husband who called my attention to it but I just waved it off. My husband insisted we did a pregnancy test at home. Reluctantly, I agreed and behold, it was positive. My husband was head over heels with excitement. Even though I wasn’t looking forward to it initially, I was elated too. I can say that I started bonding with our baby right there and then. I started talking to and praying for him and my husband will just laugh away anytime he sees me talking to our child, but we both prayed for him.

What was the hardest part about being pregnant?

For me, the hardest part was morning sickness. It was beyond being sick in the morning; it was all day sickness for me. My first trimester was quite challenging – I could lie down on a spot all day. Actually, I never knew my husband is such a good cook until I got pregnant and he had to start doing the cooking. He would cook the food and still have to cajole me to eat it. Sometimes I still vomited after eating the food.

Which of your trimesters did you enjoy the most?

That would be my second trimester; I really enjoyed that phase of pregnancy. There was this group I joined, called ‘the honeymoon of pregnancy’ and it definitely worked for me. In my second trimester, the morning sickness had gone down to the barest, and I was gaining my strength back. The only issue I had then was my craving and the fact that I started eating for two in the real sense. The first trimester was all about morning sickness while the third trimester was so tiring – I was just so tired of being pregnant. I couldn’t wait to see my child; I was constantly nagging my husband. When the pregnancy was 38 weeks, we had to go to the hospital to ask if our baby was matured enough and if I could be induced but the doctor advised against it.

What advice would you give other women about pregnancy?

As tiring as those pre-natal drugs are, endeavour to use them faithfully; they really help. Most importantly, pray always. It’s never too early to pray for your child.

What do you miss the most about your pre-motherhood stage?

I miss having all the time to myself alone. Now, it seems 24 hours is never enough to get things done around the house. There’s always something left undone since the arrival of the baby, although the joy of motherhood makes that seem irrelevant.

How do you balance being a mother with your duty as a wife?

Well, my husband has been a strong pillar of support and that’s the only reason I can claim to have been able to strike a balance. I constantly remind myself that as much as I have to care for our child, it’s still my responsibility to care for my husband as well, take care of the home and also find time for myself no matter how little. Sometimes, I shuttle between chores. Sometimes, when my baby is asleep, I ignore all the chores and just spend some time with my hubby. It takes a conscious effort, but God has been helping me.

Was there a shift of attention from your husband to your child?

Not exactly.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]