Save me, begs 40-yr-old man in need of N15m for kidney transplant
Jesusegun Alagbe

When Solomon Akinlaja, 40, fell ill sometime in 2016, vomiting and stooling, he thought he was having malaria, or at worse, typhoid fever.

At the General Hospital, Gbagada, Lagos, where he was later rushed to, he was diagnosed with malaria.

But the Ekiti State indigene didn’t feel better even after taking anti-malaria drugs.

“The symptoms persisted and I was also getting unusually weak. Thereafter, I went to the Lagos University Teaching Hospital. When I was examined there, they said wrong drugs had been prescribed for me at the General Hospital in Gbagada,” said Akinlaja, a 2007 graduate of Business Administration at the Bowen University, Iwo, Osun State.

Because of the wrong diagnosis, Akinlaja said specialists at LUTH told him it had started affecting his kidneys.

“The specialists said my blood pressure wasn’t regular and it was affecting my kidneys. I did scans and saw that my two organs were shrinking. By and by, one of the kidneys failed in 2016,” he told our correspondent.

With the development, he said he had to make some lifestyle changes so that his second kidney could sustain him, however, to no avail.

He said, “The lifestyle change saw me shedding my weight from 98kg to 85kg. But by 2017, the frequency of my stooling and vomiting had increased. My chest was always vibrating, I could barely walk. I also started having severe pains.

“So I went back to LUTH and started dialysis. However, on March 11, 2017, I had a crisis which made me to be referred to St. Nicholas Hospital, Lagos.

“Since then, I have been having two sessions of dialysis every week, costing between N45,000 and N60,000. By August 2017, it increased to three times per week.”

In August 2018, Akinlaja said he was referred to the Apollo Hospital in New Delhi, India for kidney transplant, after a medical report, which was obtained by our correspondent, showed that he was now suffering from End Stage Renal Disease.

However, the cost of the kidney transplant, drugs, air travel and after-care have been estimated at over $42,000 (N15m), an amount the 40-year-old said he could not afford to raise.

“I need help from Nigerians to survive. If it were possible, I would borrow money to treat myself, but because it’s not, I appeal to kind-hearted Nigerians to come to my aid; they should please save me,” he pleaded.

Akinlaja, who worked at a company specialising in stage lighting and design, said if not for his wife of five years and his family, he might probably have given up on his life.

“I got married in February 2013 and we have no child yet, but I believe I will get over this and have a child. My wife and family are the ones encouraging me. If not, maybe I would have given up on life. My church and company are also supportive,” he noted.

He added, “I had to move from our home to my parents’ house so that when my wife goes out to work, I can have people around me.”

Meanwhile, anyone willing to help Akinlaja can do so via donations to: Solomon Akinlaja, 0006902389, GTBank (naira account) or Solomon Akinlaja, 0120839116, GTBank (dollar account).

He can also be reached on 08034300450.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]