Pros and cons of lovers living together before marriage
DOLAPO AKITOYE examines the merits and demerits of unmarried lovers cohabiting

There is a saying that, “You never really know someone until you live with them.” This is apt because there are habits people exhibit when in the comfort of their homes. It is for this reason that some couples choose to cohabit.

Oxford Dictionary defines cohabitation as the state of living together and having a sexual relationship without being married. While this is a practice that is not strange in many Western countries, psychologist, Charles Orji, argued that it was unacceptable in the African culture.

He said, “Cohabiting is a little foreign to the African culture. Our society frowns upon it; so, I can imagine that it would be uneasy for some people to cohabit.”

For many lovers, cohabitation gives them a chance to see if marriage would be the right step for them to take. According to a psychologist at the University of Lagos, Prof. Oni Fagboungbe, one of the benefits of cohabiting is that it creates an avenue for one to have a better understanding of the person one desires to marry.

He stated, “When one understands the behaviour of one’s partner, it equips one with the mechanism of control. Apart from that, it places one in a position to decide whether marriage is a worthwhile venture or not.”

The need to test his compatibility with his partner is the reason Tobi Alade, in his mid-twenties, desire to try cohabitation.

He said, “I think it is only normal that my partner and I spend some time together. It will help us in bonding and planning for the future. It will provide a better insight into what to do about marriage.”

A woman, who has been married for two years, Senami Olaoye, also advocated for cohabitation. She noted that there was nothing wrong for lovers to cohabit.

“I know that our culture does not really allow it. But I feel like it is ideal because one can opt out if the relationship doesn’t work,” Olaoye said.

She further said she knew many married couples who didn’t live together before marriage and still trying to cope with living with each other in the first few months and a few years of marriage.

Aside measuring compatibility, there are also other reasons why a couple would choose to live together before marriage.

A woman in her early twenties, Funke Adeoye, stated that some lovers cohabit in order to reduce the cost of living. She also noted that some people chose not to marry and would rather be in a committed relationship with their partner for a long time by cohabiting.

However, despite some advantages cohabitation, there are also some disadvantages attached to it.

In a country like Nigeria that holds its cultural and religious values very high, living together before marriage is seen as a social stigma.

Fagboungbe said, “One disadvantage of cohabiting is that one would be violating the culture and religion of the people. Another disadvantage is that unmarried lovers living together are not entitled to certain protection. When lovers are not married, there are many things that they are not entitled to culturally and otherwise because they are not husband and wife.”

Olaoye also agreed with Faboungbe that unmarried lovers living together wouldn’t enjoy certain protection. She stated, “There is no protection when unmarried lovers cohabit. In a marriage, there are marital laws that can protect a person but this does not apply when a couple just live together.”

However, George Ohiku, who is in his early twenties, argued that there were temptations connected with cohabitation.

Ohiku said, “Personally, I would want to cohabit with my partner. But I do not think it is right because not only would there be temptations, there will also be financial implications. If I can take care of the finances, then I would just marry my partner.”

Notwithstanding the disadvantages, there are those who see nothing wrong in the idea. Oye Osikoya, who has been married for over 20 years, said cohabitation should be allowed once the lovers were committed to each other.

She stated, “I would insist on a registry certificate first especially if my daughter is involved. The public marriage can come later. But I think it is better to do something first like an introduction, engagement ceremony or registry before the couple start living together.”

Besides, Adeoye said some lovers would not want to live together before marriage in order to have their independence for as long as they could.

“I feel like when someone comes into your space before marriage, they begin to have marital expectations and those things can cause conflict.

“I prefer to enjoy my singleness completely with the intentions of going into marriage with the awareness that many things are going to change and the readiness to adjust and comply with the changes,” Adeoye added.

A young man, Tobi Akinbiyi, also said his love for independence wouldn’t make him try cohabitation. “I love my space and I do not like to factor other people into how I plan my day. I like to be a free bird and that is not possible when one lives with someone,” he added.

Also, a woman in her early twenties, Akunna Ezekwem, maintained that she would like to live with her partner to figure out if they were compatible before marriage. She stated, “On the other hand, I feel there is no rush. If I’m moving in after marriage, why do I have to move in before?”

But Chisom Ezenwa, who is in her twenties, strongly faulted the idea of cohabitation, saying it would mean that one was committed without actually being committed.

Ezenwa’s position was supported by Kelechi Chiedozie. He said that he would not want to marry a woman he lived with before marriage as he could think she cheapened herself by performing marital duties before marriage.

Mrs. Mabel Irukera, who has been married for over a decade, is completely against of cohabtation.

She stated, “Cohabitation in theory seems like a good trial before marriage to see if things could work out. However, what people do not realise is that it’s a different ball game as soon as one is married.

“The thoughts, attitudes and behaviours are different. However, when one is cohabiting, it can put one on edge in trying to see if the relationship can work.”

Irukera explained that the situation could also make one defensive and scared to continue because one would see flaws and unsure one could handle them.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]