I lost appetite during pregnancy, I only ate for my baby –Ene
A human resources personnel, Mrs. Mary Ene, shares her joys of motherhood with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN

What is your baby’s name?

He is Chidubem Bryan Ene.

When and where was he born?

He was born on May 4, 2018, in Dallas, Texas, United States of America. Incidentally, his brother’s birthday is on May 6.

Describe your labour room experience.

I had a contraction and was just dilating. On the week I gave birth, the contraction became more frequent. On the Thursday before I gave birth, the contraction became much but I said I should watch it a bit more before going to the hospital. I didn’t want to go to the hospital and would be told it was false labour. The contractions relieved me in the afternoon. But by evening, the contractions came again. I was a bit disturbed so I prayed and kept observing. When my brother-in-law returned, he asked me if I was still having the contractions. When I explained to him, he also advised that we should watch it.

For how long did you watch it?

When it was 12.30am, the pain became intense and I knew that it was real labour. We drove straight to the hospital and by 1am, we were at the hospital. By the time I was attended to, I was told that my doctor was not on duty and they would need to get across to her before I could be delivered of the baby.

I was told that my doctor said that she was on call anytime I was in labour. Over there, their system is different; I already have a relationship with my doctor. They don’t just tell any doctor to attend to pregnant woman because she is in labour. They allow one’s doctor to handle such session because the person knows one’s history. One is more comfortable and over the time, one would have bonded with such person.

My doctor came in the morning and when the contraction came, I was tired and couldn’t wait to get delivered of the baby. They broke my water and I had to push really hard because the baby was quite big and enjoying himself inside my body while I just wanted to get done with the whole thing. Finally, he came out crying and I was relieved that the nine months journey had finally come to an end.

What did your baby weight at birth?

He weighed 3.5kg.

How did you feel when you finally held your baby?

I was very happy and thankful to God for the strength of the pregnancy and the grace to be a mother because not everyone who started the nine months journey got to the end. Although I was overwhelmed with the stress and tiredness from the whole labour, I was also full of gratitude.

Did the baby come on the expected due date?

No, he came earlier; he came in at the 39th week. You know the EDD is usually with a plus and a minus.

Did your experience from previous birth help you during your last delivery?

It was a totally new experience; just like my mother would say, different baby with different experience. What I experienced with my first son is different from what I had with my new baby. For my first child, the labour came just a day before and I went to the hospital and gave birth almost immediately. The baby was not resting on the bladder like my second baby. Then, as a first timer, I was inexperienced, naïve and all but the experience was easier than this. Of course, I am experienced. I know what the labour room looks like but the experience was totally different.

How did you choose the names you gave him?

My husband and I had names we wanted to give him but we decided to honour our parents by allowing them to name him. My mother-in-law named him Chidubem while my father gave him Chibuzor and we gave him Bryan as English name.

Did you think labour is overhyped?

I don’t think it is. People’s experiences are usually different. People talk about the labour based on their personal experiences. Some people will go to the labour room and push easily, while some will take so much time trying to get the baby out. Some also have tear and others won’t.

For instance, after my first child, I would say labour room was easy. But with my second child, I wouldn’t say the same. Generally, with my experience, I would say it is not an easy thing especially with the kind of pain we go through; women are strong. It takes a strong person to bear that pain that we go through. You just have to be strong to give birth to the baby.

What were your first thoughts when you discovered you were pregnant?

I was happy and thankful to God. The baby came a little bit earlier than we planned. I got pregnant at a time my husband and I were planning on when we wanted to have another child. We are thankful that we didn’t have to start trying over and over again.

What food did you crave while pregnant?

I did not crave any food during pregnancy. In fact, I didn’t even have appetite. I had to eat for my baby to stay healthy. Sometimes, my husband would ask me what I wanted him to get for me. But once I set my eyes on it, I got tired by the smell. All through pregnancy, I forced myself to eat to stay healthy and for the baby.

What did you enjoy the most about being pregnant?

I really cannot think of anything special except for my husband’s love and care. I couldn’t sleep well because I watched the position I slept. But now I can sleep in whatever position I want.

What do you consider as the best part of being a mother?

When I carry my baby and I watch him smile, knowing how genuine such smile is, no matter how upset I am, it melts my heart. The smile of my baby pays the price of whatever stress I have gone through.

What do you miss the most about your pre-motherhood stage?

I miss having my time and sleep. I can’t sleep like I want. I will have to put my sons to sleep before I can get some sleep. Also, I can’t just go out or to the cinemas like I want to. I will start thinking of who to drop them with or who will go out with me in order to assist me.

What lessons has motherhood taught you?

Firstly, it has made me appreciate my mother more. Growing up, we saw just ourselves as privileged to have mothers. We really didn’t know the sacrifices they paid and the decisions they had to take putting us in mind. But now that I am a mother, it is easier to put myself in her shoes. I can really relate with the lyrics of the song, ‘Sweet mother’.

My mother is a blessing and I’m happy she is alive. Motherhood has made me think of others; I have to think of my children too. In the past I used to think of myself and my husband. Now, I have a sense of more responsibility. Motherhood has really changed me like I have to think about my children and their future even though they are still young.

How do you combine taking care of the kids and home?

It is not easy at all. I do the much I can as I can’t do it all at once. In fact, one cannot finish house chores. I also have a very caring partner; he helps with whatever he can on weekends when he is around. Sometimes, I pay someone to help me do some of the chores.

How do you balance the attention between your husband and children?

My husband is very understanding. He assists me in taking care of the children. Sometimes when there is a need to attend to both, he always prefers the children. He would tell me to take care of the children. I also try to balance it up by making out time to have discussions with him. I also call him over the phone in the afternoon when he is at work. Now that I am more experienced, I try not to neglect him unlike when I had my first baby and I was overwhelmed not knowing what to do. I am always putting him into considerations because he is my first baby.

What is your advice to pregnant women?

They should do whatever they can do. They shouldn’t try to do everything. Their body is not as strong as they think. They should eat well, rest well, take care of their bodies and pray.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]