Not being raised by my father not a challenge –Emmanuel
Nollywood actor, Austin Emmanuel, talks about his fatherhood experience with DOLAPO AKITOYE

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood is not an easy job but I thank God for His guidance.

How did you meet your wife?

I met my wife through my mother-in-law who is an actress. We became friends and dated and then when the time was right, I asked her to be my wife and she accepted.

When did you become a father for the first time?

It was 12 years ago because I had my daughter before I got married to my wife. My wife and I have two children together.

Were you in the labour room during the birth of any of your children?

No, I was not in the labour room but I waited at the hospital reception when the children were born.

How did you feel when you carried your first child?

I felt good because becoming a father is not an easy job at all. Ever since, I have had no problems and I have also been blessed with two sons.

Did you wish for a particular gender before any of your children was born?

No, I did not. I am happy with what God has blessed me with.

What made you become an actor?

I was once a writer. I used to write stories. One day, a friend of mine asked me what my plans were with the stories I was writing. At the time, my plan was to write a novel. Then, he asked me if I had considered movies rather than novels. I still insisted on writing novels but he explained to me that script writing would be more appreciated. I decided to explore that area.

I started looking for someone that would help me get into the movie industry and eventually, I met my boss, Jelili Erupo. It was through my boss at the time that I was able to get into the movie industry. I thank God for bringing me this far.

How have you been able to manage your career and fatherhood?

I am managing. One cannot be perfect but by the grace of God, I have been managing it the way God wants me to manage it. God has been good to me and I have been able to meet my targets. When it comes to my career, I pay attention to my fans and accept their criticisms. I am not perfect but I try my best to keep on getting better at what I do.

What values are you instilling in your children which you imbibed from your father?

Actually, I was not trained by my father. My grandmother trained and raised me.

What then prepared you for fatherhood having been trained by your grandmother?

The fact that I was not raised my father has no bearing with my ability to be a father. God has been a guide for me and I have been able to discharge my fatherhood roles to the best of my ability.

What has been a major challenge for you as a father?

I do not believe I have experienced any major challenges so far since I became a father.

How do you discipline your children when they err?

Actually, as a father, when my children see me around, they do not misbehave. They may misbehave with their mother but with me, they do not try that. It is important that my children are disciplined and because I am an actor does not mean that they would lack discipline. I have to teach them so that when they go outside, they can make themselves and their family proud. If they do wrong thing, I let them know that what they have done is not right.

How do you reward them when they make you happy?

I do not believe in waiting for them to do something good before I reward them. I have to make them happy all the time. It is not until they make me happy before I reward them. They are not my servants; they are my children.

How do you relax?

I don’t really go clubbing and I do not smoke. My way of relaxing is by staying indoors when I have time on my hands.

You were involved in a car accident not long ago. How was the experience?

It was a very bad experience. It is an experience that I do not want to remember. It happened about two weeks ago and it was a horrible experience. I have never gone through anything like that in my life. It was scary. I began to think about how short life is. I saw a lot of blogs carry the story and I began to think of how they would have reported it if I had died. I thank God for my life.

Did you sustain any injuries?

I sustained some minor injuries.

Which is your favourite in the movies you have featured in?

That is a big question. I say so because there are certain movies that I would have loved but the audience might not like them. It is a hard question for me to answer.

What makes a marriage work in your opinion?

To begin with, both the man and the woman must know how to calm down whenever something happens between them. A couple will argue; that’s a fact. But they must know how to calm down for each other. If the wife is really angry, the husband has to calm down and vice-versa. The wife must also know how to dance to the husband’s tunes in many ways and this also applies to the husband. The couple should be able to listen to each other. They are husband and wife and should be able to help each other to make the relationship strong.

Also, they should not listen to third parties. When third parties get involved in their marriage, it always damages the relationship. They must also shun gossips.

How do you appreciate your wife?

I appreciate her every day.

What advice would you give children without father figure?

They have to move forward. It is not only their fathers that will make them successful in life. Without a father, one must still move forward. I became who I am today despite not being raised by my father. I worked hard to get to where I am today.

What is your advice to would-be fathers?

They should sit down and plan their lives well. When they have children, they should also support them in whatever career choices they make. They should not force careers on them but rather allow them to make their own choices and provide the necessary support that they would need. They should not also be too harsh on their children and not too soft either. There should be a healthy balance.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]