After several miscarriages, we told God not to give us children again —Mum of triplets who gave birth after 20 years
A pastor’s wife, Freda Yohanne, tells ARMSTRONG BAKAM the experience of giving birth to triplets after her marriage of about 20 years

Tell us more about yourself.

I am a 50-year-old woman, from Takum, Taraba State.

For how long have you been married?

I have been married for almost 20 years. It will be exactly 20 years by December 19.

When did you give birth?

I gave birth on July 30, 2018.

What was your experience over these years without a child?

After about a year of marriage, I took in but I had a miscarriage and another year, I took in again and I still had a miscarriage. I had a miscarriage for the third pregnancy and after about seven months, I had another miscarriage. After that, I stayed for about five years before I took in again and same thing happened.

I remember that in 2014, I took in and a scan showed the pregnancy contained twins and after five months, it came down. I neatly lost my life. I had over 10 miscarriages. I was at Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Teaching Hospital, Bauchi, Apple Clinic Bauchi and Diff Hospital, Abuja while the travails lasted. We then decided that God should not give us a child again. I eventually gave birth at Alps Hospital, Jos.

What was going through your mind at the time?

We really didn’t know what was happening but knowing that it’s God that gives babies and knows everything, nothing takes Him unawares; so, I trusted Him. It was just that the 2014 experience hit me so hard that we told God not to bother giving us a child because my husband said he didn’t want to lose me. But God in His infinite mercy made it possible for us now and instead of twins, he gave us triplets.

Did you get frustrated that you had no child to show from the lost pregnancies?

The truth is that we were not disturbed though our relations were the ones most disturbed. As far as we were concerned, God has an assignment for us which is the ministry and we are doing it. I remember 10 years ago, 2008 precisely, I resigned from my work to join my husband fully in the ministry. The good aspect of it is that we have many children we have raised up and given some out in marriage. We always had children around the house; so, we were not really bothered like that.

Was there pressure from your family members or friends?

I would not say there was no pressure because once in a while when we visited home, they would ask what was wrong but we would tell them that it was not us but God, because human beings do not give children. There was pressure but it didn’t cause frustration for us nor cause us to lose sleep.

How did you feel when you became pregnant which eventually led to the birth of the triplets?

There was a prophecy that we would dedicate our child. Lo and behold, pregnancy came and normally, what I used to do if I took in was to continue doing my normal daily activities because I do a lot of things. But during this particular pregnancy, I stayed in one place because age is no more on my side. God really helped us and it was not even staying in one place that worked but it was God that helped us.

What was your labour experience?

There was no labour because the triplets at my age would not allow me go through labour. I gave birth through caesarean section.

Were you afraid going through operation?

No, I was not scared because I was already aware that they were triplets. From the first month that I did a scan, it was discovered that they were triplets.

The only thing that happened was that the scan didn’t see the sex of one, it only showed two boys.

They were always seeing the side of the third baby, so I was expecting either a boy or a girl. At the end of the day, the first child came out and it was a boy. The second came and was a boy and the third came and it was also a boy. I expected the third child to be a girl but God gave me three boys. I was not scared because I prepared for triplets.

How has it been taking care of the babies?

It has not been easy but the grace of God has been available because I cannot do it alone. I need people around and thank God people have been there. God sent helpers. Our church members have been helpful too and my sisters have been around. It has been wonderful.

At a point, I felt I should no longer disturb God – Husband

How did you feel with the birth of the triplets?

I am Promise Yohanne, husband of Freda. I am 50-year-old, a pastor and from Mubi-South, Adamawa State. Honestly, it’s the Lord’s doing and it is marvellous in our sight. Last year when my wife told me that she was pregnant, I said wao!; because in the past she had been pregnant but the ability to carry it to delivery stage was not there.

She went for scanning after two months and a doctor said that she was carrying three babies. When I got to know, I shouted and I said God wanted to compensate us with three children after waiting for this long, almost about 20 years now. I was excited actually but I was also fearful lest there would be a miscarriage and we were trusting God that it would work out. God helped and she was delivered of triplets.

How did you manage the period of waiting for a child?

There was pressure and it came as my wife started getting worried that she had no child and those married after her had got babies. We were not getting younger but older. Then apart from her, my parents could not confront us directly; my father didn’t really disturb us much but my mother pressured us much.

Every time we went to the village, she kept asking, ‘When would you bring my grand children?’ At a point, I stayed away from the village for almost three years.

I said to myself, I am a pastor and I had come to the point in walking with God that my service to God is not based on what He does for me or not. I have come to the point that whether He blesses me or not, I will continue to serve Him. That was the position I took.

It got to a point that I felt that I’ve been praying and trusting God for it and it didn’t materialise so why should I disturb myself. It’s not every prayer God will answer. If He doesn’t answer, that’s not a problem. It was not like I gave up but I felt that life can be lived with or without children; that was the position I took. But lately, somebody met me, one of the pastors and told me not to give up.

Also, my uncle’s wife, Mrs. Bunmi Jakko, told my wife same thing. We told them that it’s not that we have given up but it’s because we had other things to pray for. I am a nurse by training; so, I also used medical knowledge.

Do you worry about how to cater to the needs of the triplets?

I know that taking care of three kids with the economic situation is a tough thing. But I knew that God who brought them would provide. I am a pastor living and working by faith. I’ve also brought up people’s children in my house and God has helped me to take care of them. I know having three children at the same time is not an easy task but I know God will see us through and he will provide.

How was your feeling during their dedication?

Honestly, I was overwhelmed with joy because I didn’t know people loved me like that. The goodwill was massive. People came from Lagos, outside the country, Abuja and from my village and my wife’s village.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]