How long should engagement last?
DOLAPO AKITOYE examines how long it should take lovers to be wedded after they have been engaged

There are several steps that precede a marriage between a man and a woman. The steps include courtship, engagement and then marriage. Each of these steps is important before lovers take the vows on their wedding day.

Courtship is the stage where lovers get to know each other and see if they are compatible enough and this could take a few months or years. The duration for courtship depends on the couple because certain factors could quicken or slow down courtship.

When lovers have decided that they are ready to marry, engagement takes place. Both parents and families would also get to know one another. Sometimes, after engagement, it may take a long time before marriage holds.

Engagement, in the modern sense, takes place in form of a proposal in which one partner proposes marriage to the other. Most times, it is the man that makes the move.

Engagement period is meant for the couple to prepare for marriage which, in the Nigerian culture, involves introduction, traditional, court and white weddings.

However, in modern times, there have been couples who got engaged for many years without marriage featuring in their plans. American singer, Jennifer Hudson, was engaged to her fiancé for 10 years before they finally broke up. They never walked down the aisle. Similarly, actors Megan Fox and Brian Green were engaged for four years before they eventually got married.

Examining how long engagement should last, a psychologist at the University of Ibadan, Prof. Benjamin Olley, said courtship should have no definite time.

He noted that normally, it should also start when certain things were put in place and when one was physiologically, psychologically, emotionally, spiritually and financially ready.

Olley, however, said engagement process should last a year at the most. He stated, “Engagement is like an intention to get married. Engagement should take at least a year maximum because once one gets engaged, that means one is ready to marry.

“The couples should put in place some of the areas outlined above, not necessarily at the maximum level but at least to a particular level that can sustain one. Once one is able to get all those things ready, then one can get married.”

A married woman, Ada Onasanya, said she was engaged for about a year and a half before she got married. She stated that she didn’t believe there ought to be a fixed period that engagement should last.

She stated, “When two people decide to get engaged, surely they go into that commitment because they intend to marry. Situations are different for different people; sometimes one intends one thing and life takes one down a different path.

“Marriage does not have to come immediately as long as the partners have decided together for the right reasons and with the same goal and are actively working towards it. There is no rule book to these things; different strokes for different folks.”

However, another woman, Precious Ehiremen, who married four months after engagement, said engagement shouldn’t last too long. She stated, “I believe that marriage should take place between four to five months after engagement. It does not make sense to get engaged if the marriage does not come immediately.”

A bachelor, Ebuka Okonkwo, who is in his late twenties, agrees with Ehiremen. He believed engagement should last for a maximum of six months.

“That is enough time for one to see the parents, do the traditional rites and plan a wedding. If marriage plans don’t start the day after engagement, there is really no need to get engaged in the first place,” he added.

Okonkwo’s position is supported by Jones Ayuwo, a man in his mid-twenties. Ayuwo said there was no need for one of the partners to propose if they weren’t ready for marriage.

While a quick engagement is ideal, there are reasons why a couple would choose to prolong it.

A woman in her early twenties, Nneka Nnanna, argued that finance could and should be one of the only reasons to prolong an engagement. She said, “Personally, I feel that before the talk of marriage comes up in a relationship, a couple ought to have known each other to a considerable extent, and prolonging an engagement for any reason other than lack of finance does not make sense.”

A marriage counsellor, Olabisi Soetan, noted that there was no rule book that stated how long an engagement should last. “There are no rules on how long an engagement should last. The only thing that makes sense is that an engagement comes into play when there is an intention to marry.

“So, an engagement should only last as long as it’s necessary for the intending couple to plan their wedding. The length can vary for many different reasons ranging from financial, cultural to religious,” Soetan added.

She said there were merits and demerits associated with prolonged engagement.

“Sometimes, people don’t have everything in place and a long engagement can give them the time to save up and meet members of their families. It can also be beneficial to people in a long-distance relationship,” the counsellor stated.

According to her, it provides one with the mental preparedness to understand one’s partner better and to try to figure out marital life with the person.

Soetan, however, said one of the disadvantages of a long engagement was that it provided the illusion of time on one’s hand.

“Many people never really use the time to do what they plan to. They still end up with last-minute plans for their wedding. There is also the issue of pre-marital sex for religious people. A long engagement puts one at risk of breaking one’s oath of celibacy. Each relationship is different and everybody should do what works best for them,” she added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]