A good wife is a solution to most of man’s problems — Lai Oso
A professor of Mass Communication at the School of Communication, Lagos State University and President, Association of Communication Scholars and Professionals of Nigeria, Lai Oso, shares his fatherhood experience with DOLAPO AKITOYE

How would you describe fatherhood?

Fatherhood is basically centred on responsible parenting; the ability of a man to take care of his family and in the African context, it extends to extended family members. It’s having the responsibility to take care of one’s family.

Did you marry at an age you considered early or late?

I would say I got married at the right time, which was at 28.

How many children do you have?

I have two children – a girl and a boy – and they are both married now.

Were you in the labour room for the birth of any of your children?

Yes, I was in the labour room for the birth of my first child – my daughter. She was born in England and I was allowed into the labour room. I saw everything.

Did you have any gender preferences before any of your children was born?

I would say, yes. I wanted a girl because of my experience with my elder sister, who was the first born in our family. She has been very caring and nice to all the siblings. That left an impact on me and gave me the desire to have a girl first.

How did you feel when you held your child in your arms for the first time?

I was very happy and being in the labour room was quite an experience for me. It was a thing of joy.

What set you on the path of being a professor?

I was influenced by my teachers. I was very fortunate to have good teachers from primary school. They were very interested in the pupils and were role models. When I got into the university, I met excellent lecturers who provided the feeling that the academic life was good, not a flamboyant life but a good one nonetheless. We really admired them and they were good to us. That propelled me. In fact, one of them, the late Prof Femi Sonaike, actually got me interested in the academic. I was working as a reporter but he was following my progress and he got me into teaching.

Tell us about the Association of Communication Scholars and Professionals of Nigeria, which you are its president.

The association is a brainchild of some of our senior colleagues who thought that we needed a platform to bring professionals in the field of media and communication and also academics to interact. They saw a gap between the classroom and the newsroom and sought to create a bridge between the two. This was how it started five years ago. It was through them that I was made president and actually most of us in the executive were chosen by the elders to drive the association.

How far do you think the media and communication industry has come in Nigeria?

It’s been quite challenging and also exciting. The media have contributed a lot to the country, particularly journalism. They fought for independence internationally and they have kept going. There have been lots of challenges especially recently as the economy has not been favourable to media organisations.

They have made lots of contributions but now, there are concerns as to whether they are doing enough to nurture democracy, public participation and also give people the right information. Right now, they are going through a tough time.

What would you like to see the industry improve on?

In terms of journalism – which is probably the most visible to ordinary people when it comes to media and communications – I would like to see more of civic information; information that will educate people about things going on within the society. I would like to see more of investigative journalism; fulfilling that role of the media as a watchdog of the society. I would also like to see less of the sensational stories. I also think the politicians are playing on that. They raise the alarm and all of a sudden, it’s on the front page of the newspapers and nobody is asking fundamental questions about the truthfulness. These are the areas that I think we need to pay attention to so that we can increase the credibility of the media.

Is any of your children interested in becoming a professor like you?

Well, my daughter is working on her PhD; she wants to be in the academics. However, my son is a practising lawyer and I don’t think he is interested in teaching.

How have you been able to manage your career and fatherhood?

I would say that the important thing is the home. If one has a good home and a good wife who is supportive, a good number of one’s problems will be solved. Of course, the God factor is also very important. A lot of people say that we pray too much in this country but for me, God is important in whatever we do. It’s not that we use God to create an excuse but we need God in our lives and also a good home. When one has a peaceful home, it gives one the confidence that one is doing one’s work well. I have also had good people around me as well. That is one thing I would say that I have achieved. A good number of my colleagues have been so supportive. These three factors are very important – God, family and having the right people around one.

What values did you imbibe from your father which guided you in training your children?

The first thing is humility. One needs to be humble in life. The other thing is contentment. I remember something that happened when I was younger. My father was a Muslim and during Ramadan, one is expected to kill a ram. My father was also a farmer and there was a year that things did not go well on the farm; he didn’t make much. We were expecting that he would get a ram but he just came and told us that there would be no ram that year. That was it. He just told us that God would provide the following year. That was a lesson to me that whatever one has, one should be content with it. Tomorrow could be better. Contentment is very important in life. He also taught us to be friendly with people and be ready to contribute our own quota wherever we are. He also taught us to have a positive outlook on life.

What challenges did you face moving up your career?

In the academics, there is a question of ‘publish or perish’. If one doesn’t publish, one is not going anywhere and this is a society where the infrastructure is limited. One struggles a lot to get things done. It’s hard to get research funds; so, one is on one’s own. That is a major challenge for any academic in Nigeria.

What has been a major challenge for you as a father?

Now, that the children are older, I am always praying to God to make them successful. The challenges they are facing are much more than what we faced when we were their age. Things are a little bit more complex for them, so, one is always praying for them and hoping that they stay on the right path and do not derail.

How did you discipline them when they were young?

In our household, we did not spare the rod. They just had to behave and they knew that if they did anything wrong, they would be punished. There was no unnecessary luxury. The basic things that they needed were provided for them. It’s not like the money was there anyway because I’ve been a teacher all my life and my wife is a civil servant; we did not have the money for any luxury.

However, we tried to give them the basic things and teach them to appreciate the things that they have. Now, as they are older, when they do something that I think is wrong, we sit down and discuss it. By the time we discuss it and they realise they are wrong, they will acknowledge it. They also give us advice as well. We have become friends.

How did you reward them when they made you happy?

If for instance, they came home at the end of the school term and their result was very good, we would praise them and promise them special Christmas gifts.

What do your children mostly tease you about?

Well, when they start to praise me, I know that something is coming (laughs).

How do you relax?

There are many things to read; so, it has become a part of me to always read. It gives me a lot of relaxation but for quite some time, I have not been able to read some good books and that is something I really need to do.

Is there anything more you want to achieve in your career?

I would still like to write some good books that will stand the test of time. That is my aim in my career.

In your opinion, what makes a marriage work?

Couples must understand themselves. The husband and wife must understand each other and one must understand the children as well. No two children are the same; they have different characters and abilities. One must understand all these and be able to balance. That is very important. One must also be ready to compromise in a marriage.

How do you appreciate your wife?

We talk and play a lot. In fact, if one should see us playing, one would think we are children. We still call each other by our first names. I also buy things for her often.

What advice would you give children without fathers?

That is a tough one. However, one thing in life is that regardless of if one has a father or not, one would meet all kinds of people. It is important to keep people of excellent characters around one. One should have great role models that can help one grow. That helped me a lot. My father was not an academic but I had excellent teachers that motivated me.

What is your advice to would-be fathers?

They must try to understand their children. They should not try to force their opinions and their ways on their children every time because they are also human beings. A parent must be ready to discuss with them and advise them and not impose things on them. A father should also be ready to provide the children with the basic things of life such as education, food and so on. The home should also be conducive. Let the children always look forward to coming home.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]