Heat, mood swing most disturbing parts of my pregnancy — Adeshina
A housewife, Mrs Susan Adeshina, shares the lessons she learnt from motherhood with DOLAPO AKITOYE

When was your son born?

He was born on April 7, 2018, at a private hospital in Lagos.

What is your son’s name?

His name is Oluwafikayomi Anthony Adesina.

How did you pick the name?

His father gave him the name.

Describe your labour experience.

It was intense. My water broke at about 9am. When I got to the hospital, I was induced. I started having labour pains around 6pm. When the labour came, it made me feel like defecating. In fact, I went to the toilet more than five times to defecate but it didn’t come. My mother-in-law and my twin sister really made fun of me and they were also very helpful. When it was about 11.30pm, I was taken into the labour room. The doctor did some checks and told me I had over an hour to go. I told him ‘oh no’ because I couldn’t stand it anymore and I really wanted to defecate. He told me I could not do that at that moment. Eventually, he told me that I should push hard whenever he told me to do so. It was at the second push that my baby arrived.

How did you feel when you held your baby for the first time?

Oh my God, it was very surreal. I was very happy.

Was your husband with you in the labour room?

No, he wasn’t. In fact, he was not around as he went on a business trip. My mother-in-law and my twin sister were with me but they did not come into the labour room.

How did you find out you were pregnant?

After I celebrated my birthday, I realised that I hadn’t seen my period. I used a pregnancy test kit first before going to the hospital for confirmation. Prior to that, I did not have any signs of pregnancy. It was just my period that I had missed. The love and care I got during the period and when I put to bed was overwhelming. It was like a king was born.

Did you have a gender preference before your baby was born?

No, I did not really have a preference. I would have been okay with whatever God blessed me with.

Did you do a scan to find out the gender of the baby?

Yes, I did a scan at the hospital that confirmed I would have a boy.

How would you describe your pregnancy and what was the most difficult part of it?

I really enjoyed it for the most part. There were some parts that I did not like. For instance, I got a lot of heartburn. I also had mood swings. Sweat and heat really made me angry. I could take a bath four to five times a day. It was the most disturbing part of my pregnancy.

What food did you crave during pregnancy?

I craved breakfast cereals a lot. I also ate lots of fruits, especially apple.

Did your baby arrive on the predicted due date?

No, he did not. He came about a week earlier. I was told April 15 but he came on April 7.

What has been the most challenging task since you became a mother?

It has not been easy at all, especially seeing that my baby is a very dramatic baby. He started crawling when he was about two weeks old; so, I always have to be alert because I don’t want him to fall. Thankfully, my mother-in-law has been very helpful.

How would you compare your life before motherhood and now?

Wow, it’s very different. In everything I do, I always have to consider my baby; he is my priority.

What part of your body changed during pregnancy that you did not like?

My whole body because I added a lot of weight during pregnancy.

What advice did you get from family and friends about pregnancy that helped you?

During pregnancy, they told me not to be lazy and to also exercise so that I would be able to push on the day of labour.

How much has your baby changed since he was born?

He has really changed. As I mentioned earlier, my baby started crawling at two weeks. He has also known how to control his head. I never had to do anything. Whenever I put him to sleep, he could turn his head by himself. He does many marvellous things that make me ask God what I deserved to have such a wonderful baby like him.

Have you been overprotective of your baby?

Yes, I have. I love him. I protect him a lot. In fact, sometimes if I go out, I would have to come back as early as I can because all I will be thinking about is him.

How is your husband coping as a first-time father?

He has been so supportive. At times, when the baby is crying at night, he gets up to carry him. He does this despite the fact that he has to go to work early in the morning.

How do you want to raise your child?

I want to raise him in the way of the Lord. I want to raise him to be a good man.

Is there anything you would have loved to do differently while pregnant?

Yes, I would love to work. Even now, that is something I want to do. I love to work and I also want to contribute to my household. I don’t like sitting at home just being a housewife. I would really love to support and help people.

Have you been breastfeeding exclusively?

Yes, I have. I actually tried giving him food sometime ago but he refused.

How have you been finding breastfeeding?

It’s not easy. One has to wake up every night to feed the baby and it has been really stressful.

Do you want to have more children?

Of course, I would love to have more children. My husband said he wants two children but I want three (laughs).

What lessons has motherhood taught you?

Motherhood has taught me patience and endurance. If one doesn’t have patience, one cannot take care of babies because their cries alone can make one scream. It has really taught me to be patient and also appreciate my mother and my mother-in-law more.

What advice would you give pregnant women and new mothers?

I advise them to exercise a lot so that when it’s time for labour, it would be easier to push the baby out. They should also not be lazy and need to good care of themselves. New mothers should involve God in everything they do and also be prayerful.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]