Inability to sleep was my worst experience during pregnancy –Odebunmi
A counselling psychologist, Mrs Oyinkansola Odebunmi, shares her motherhood journey with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN

How did you prepare for labour?

I prepared for labour with classes I attended and materials I read online. I always went for antenatal where we were given different lessons in preparation for our babies, prayers, exercises and the rest.

What did you like the most about pregnancy?

What I liked the most about pregnancy was the way I was pampered by family and friends, especially my husband and the attention I got even from outsiders when in a queue among other things; the preferential treatment associated with being attended to first before anybody. It was beautiful and a culture I think people should imbibe. They should give preferential treatment to pregnant women because it is not easy carrying protruding stomach everywhere.

What was your worst experience when you were pregnant?

The worst pregnancy experience for me was when my tummy was already protruded and I couldn’t find a comfortable posture to sleep. Most times, I couldn’t sleep, and I always had to wake my husband in the middle of the night for support. It was frustrating for me.

What did your baby weigh at birth?

He weighed 3.5kg at birth. A week before I gave birth, I went for antenatal and did a scan. The nurse advised that I watch my food intake so my baby doesn’t get too big which might lead to complication.

What food did you crave during pregnancy?

During my early pregnancy, I did not even have appetite for food. I only ate because I must and I couldn’t eat any food that I prepared. I hated soft drinks. But in my late pregnancy days, I craved Ibo soup and solid food.

How were you able to manage the pregnancy?

It was my first pregnancy. I was able to manage it through God’s grace, my husband’s support, and help from family members. Also, the antenatal sessions were very helpful. Personally, when I saw other pregnant women and nursing mothers, I listened to their testimonies and was encouraged. It strengthened me for delivery.

What moment do you cherish the most about motherhood?

I cherish every moment from when I had my child to the bonding period, talking and reading to him, playing with him, and all that. Motherhood is not something that can be explained by words of mouth. It beats the intelligence of man. One is just endeared to one’s baby without being able to explain it.

What is your baby’s name?

My baby’s name is King-Oluwafeolamiloju Praise Odebunmi.

What inspired the names you gave him?

His name was divinely inspired. While I was pregnant, I prayed a lot about what my baby would be called. I woke up one morning, and that was the name I woke up with. I have never heard the name before, so I just knew it was God who gave me the name. Ever since then, my husband and I specifically called that name when praying for our unborn baby. About a week before I was delivered of my baby, my husband was leading prayers and called him King-Oluwafeolamiloju. The Praise came about because we are a family that loves praising God.

Briefly describe your labour room experience.

My labour room experience wasn’t much as I was delivered of my baby through caesarean section, after I contracted for over 12 hours and my cervix didn’t open. The last I remembered was when I was taken into the theatre, and then I woke up to see my baby and family around me.

What lessons has motherhood taught you?

Motherhood has taught me a lot. Specifically, it has taught me to always be positive, because when I look at my child, I don’t want to see any negative behaviour in him, and this keeps me positive since children learn by example.

Did you embrace exclusive breastfeeding?

Yes, I breastfed my baby exclusively for six months, after which I introduced other foods. This kept him looking robust and fresh. Exclusive breastfeeding also gave my baby and me the opportunity to bond better.

What advice did you get from your mother and relatives which helped while you were pregnant?

It was my first pregnancy; so, relatives were there for me, especially my mother telling me what to eat, wear, how to sleep, etc. My mother advised that I shouldn’t get unnecessarily angry or worked up for nothing. She also asked me to take it easy, especially with house chores. She told me to do the little I could do and get help when I couldn’t.

What has been the hardest thing about being a mother?

For me, the hardest thing about being a mother is that I can’t sleep like I want to anymore. My sleep is dictated by my baby. He has to be asleep for me to catch some sleep. It can be overwhelming especially at night.

Since my last trimester till date, I haven’t had adequate sleep because when the baby is awake, I can’t sleep, and when he’s asleep, I quickly do the necessary chores especially when there’s no help around.

How do you combine your work with motherhood?

I have very supportive family members and friends who contribute their quota in helping to care of baby King. I cannot say that the combination of work and motherhood is easy but God’s grace has been sufficient. What I do is to ensure office work stops at the office. I don’t bring work home to my family. When I’m home, I face my family fully to give them all the attention they need.

What is your advice to pregnant women?

I advise that they take things easy, pray a lot, and speak prophetically to the life of the unborn child or children. They should also ask questions from their doctors whenever they are confused. They should also prepare ahead, buy baby things gradually and not wait till they have enough money.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]