My children cherish calling them their pet names more than gifts –Kperogi
US-based lecturer and columnist, Dr Farooq Kperogi, shares his experience of fatherhood with GBENGA ADENIJI

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood means being the ever-present fountain of love, protection and guardianship for one’s children. It means being the guidepost for impressionable young minds as they navigate the tortuous labyrinth that is this world.

How have you been able to combine fatherhood and teaching?

It is at once challenging and rewarding to combine teaching and fatherhood. I not only teach and research full time, I also write two weekly newspaper columns, and participate actively on social media conversations. This reality imposes on me what I like to call chronometric discipline, that is, the imperative to use my time judiciously. I play with my children on weekends, catch up with their school work on weekdays, and do my writing at night when they go to bed. I give them most of my time during summer during which I usually have very light teaching loads.

What are the things that prepared you for fatherhood?

Nothing ever prepares anyone for fatherhood, in my opinion. I like to think that we are born with the instinctive urge to protect and nurture our little ones. I am aware, of course, that there are absent, irresponsible fathers who abandon their children, but I think that’s a choice, a horrible choice, that people make. It isn’t innate. I admit, too, that people can derive inspirational strength from others to become good or better fathers. I was, for instance, inspired by the example of my father. He was the most compassionate human being I’ve ever known. I like to describe him as a “maternal father” because of the unusual warmth and affection with which he performed his fatherly duties to his children. I always strive to live up to the standards of fatherhood he set for me.

What was your greatest fear before you became a father?

I had no fear of fatherhood; none at all. But when I had to leave for the United States for graduate studies a few months after my first child was born, I was overcome with crippling anxieties and guilt feelings even when my wife encouraged me and did all she could to assuage my anxieties and guilt. But I compensated for my temporary absence by constant telephone and Skype conversations so that when I met my daughter again a year and a half later, it didn’t seem like we had been physically separated. We sang the songs we used to sing on Skype and bonded seamlessly.

When did you become a father?

My first child was born on June 28, 2004. We named her Sinani in honour of my paternal grandmother. The name literally means queen in the Baatonu language, which is spoken in western Kwara State and in northern and central Benin Republic.

How did you feel the first time you held your first child in your hands?

I experienced a sensation of awe and trepidation! When the nurse handed my daughter to me at the hospital, the joy I felt literally shook every fibre of my being. I quivered helplessly as I held her and gazed at her beautiful, innocent eyes. It was indescribably surreal.

Did you want a particular child gender prior to the arrival of your child?

No, I didn’t. However, the initial scan showed that we were going to have a boy. A few months later, we got a different result. Yet, I wasn’t disappointed.

How do you discipline your children?

I punish them by depriving them of their privileges like playing on electronics or watching TV. I sometimes give them extra homework; ask them to write several pages of a dictionary, or solve complex math problems. I also chastise them when the occasion calls for it. In the state of Georgia, where I live, parents are permitted to spank their children within reason. So that option is there as well.

What hardest punishment did you mete out to any one of them who misbehaved?

None that I can think of! I make it a point to always remind myself that children will always be children. That means they are not developmentally mature enough to have the capacity to exercise the sort of self-restraint we tend to expect of children. I remind myself that my anger must be mediated by reasonable expectations of what a child is supposed to know and do at particular ages.

What values did you learn from your father which you passed on to your children?

My father, Mallam Adamu Kperogi, taught me the virtues of hard work, of critical inquiry, of telling the truth no matter the consequence, and of striving for excellence in whatever I do. He also taught me to not covet what other people have, to be content with what I have, to be confident, and not to give in to bullies. He was an Islamic scholar; so, naturally, he also taught me religious piety and tolerance. Two days before he died in 2016, he told me I had become everything he ever wanted me to be and that even if he died that day, he would be a fulfilled father. I didn’t know it was his way of saying goodbye to me. I hope I’ll be able to say the same to my children if I’m lucky enough to live for as long as my father did. He was about 92.

What have been your greatest challenges as a father?

I faced my greatest challenge when I became a single father after I lost my wife to a car crash in 2010 in Nigeria. I brought my first daughter to live with me in the US while I was completing my doctoral dissertation. I became both her father and her mother until I remarried in December 2014.

What lessons has fatherhood taught you?

It taught me self-sacrifice and self-discipline. It taught me to appreciate my parents more than I ever did before I became a father. It also taught me the inexpressible joy of filial love, that is, love from one’s children.

You are a columnist with critical views on the policies of the current government. How do your family members always react to your stance?

I have four children, the oldest of whom is only 14 years. My 14-year-old isn’t clued in on Nigerian politics and has no opinions on what I write. But if by family members you include my extended family members, it’s a mixed bag. Several of my cousins and uncles have told me to either stop writing about the government or temper the stridency of my critiques of the government.

Even the emir of my hometown, who is my distant cousin, called an emirate council meeting, invited my father’s younger brother to the meeting, put me on speaker phone, and said he was conveying my hometown’s unease and dissatisfaction with my unrelentingly searing criticisms of the (Muhammadu) Buhari administration. I asked where he was when I was equally brutally critical of the (Goodluck) Jonathan administration. He didn’t have an answer.

What chores, considered as reserved for women, did you take up as your children were born?

I cook, change diapers, bathe, and dress up my children. I used to do this even when I lived in Nigeria. But I became an “expert” when I became a single father for years. In my opinion, in the 21st century, it no longer makes sense to insist on a neat, gender-based compartmentalisation of roles in the household.

Were you in the labour room with your wife during the birth of any of your children?

Yes, I was in the labour room when my first child was born more than 14 years ago and again when my last child, Ramat, was born on February 25, 2017. I missed the birth of my second daughter, Maryam, in 2008 and my first son, Adam, in 2010.

How would you compare parenting in Nigeria with the western world as you live abroad?

As a child in Nigeria, my father spanked me if I disobeyed him. He only started having conversations with me about my youthful indiscretions when I was in my teenage years. I was also the product of what one might call community parenting —where every adult felt obligated to correct and teach children even if they weren’t biologically related to them. It’s different in America. Corporal punishment is rare here because science has shown that it is ineffective and ultimately counterproductive. There is also no community parenting.

What most precious gift did you give you wife for taking care of the home front during your busy schedules?

My wife has a PhD. She is a critical scholar and teacher, and isn’t your stereotypical wife who is financially dependent on her husband. Nonetheless, I couldn’t have hoped for a more loving and supportive wife than she — and for a more nurturing mother for our children than she. Apart from symbolic material gifts such as an iPad, a Kindle Fire, fine dining, etc, I make it a duty to remind her how lucky I am to have her in my life and how appreciative I am that she ignores my foibles and makes me whole.

She says she appreciates that more than anything I give her. She also buys me gifts and expresses appreciation to me; so, it’s not a one-way traffic.

How do you reward your children’s good deeds?

Like most parents in the US, I buy them gifts; take them out for dinners in their favourite restaurants; take them out to the theatre to watch their favourite movies; and occasionally, take them on road trips to interesting places. I also call them by the pet names I gave them, and this seems to please them more than material gifts. I got this from my parents. My father and mother have pet and ritual praise names for me. Each time I caused my father to be really happy and he called me by my pet and ritual praise name, I cherished it tremendously because he uttered it sparingly. He did so two days before his death, and it’s one of my most treasured memories.

If you were not a lecturer, what other career would you have chosen?

I was a journalist before I became a university teacher. I frankly can’t imagine being anything other than a journalist or a teacher. My temperaments and emotional constitution are unsuited to jobs that stymie people with the tyranny of inflexible office hours and oppressive hierarchies.

Was there ever a threat to your life on account of your blunt position on issues in your articles?

For the first time since I started writing public commentaries on Nigerian politics, several well-placed people have told me never to come to Nigeria because they say officials of the Buhari administration have perfected plans to arrest and frame me up so that they can shut me up.

In my April 4, 2015 column in the Daily Trust titled, ‘After the Euphoria, What President-elect Buhari Needs to Know’, I wrote, ‘I want to be able to visit Nigeria without being harassed by security forces because I wrote critical articles against the president and his government’. That’s precisely what several credible, well-placed sources say will happen to me when I visit Nigeria. Of course, I’ve received countless hate mails and death threats from scores of brain-dead Buhari minions, which I frankly don’t take seriously. But there is credible information from multiple sources that I am officially on the danger list of a security crackdown in Buhari’s government whenever I visit Nigeria. But this won’t stop me from visiting if and when I have a reasons to.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]