I could eat 70 times a day in my second trimester – Adeoye
A businesswoman, Mrs. Oluwaseun Adeoye, shares her motherhood experience with DOLAPO AKITOYE

describe your labour experience.

My baby was born on July 24, 2018 in a private hospital in Abuja.

It started with a pain that felt like a menstrual cramp. It was on and off. Since I had never had a child before, I did not even know that I was in labour. The on-and-off pain went on for about a day. The next day, I went to the hospital and told the doctor that I was having pains that felt like a menstrual cramp. He checked me and asked if I had a mucus plug; a discharge which comes out when a woman is in labour. After he had checked me, at about 2pm, he told me to go home and return in the evening. The cramps continued but I was also trying to exercise by walking. At about 5pm, I returned to the hospital and at that time, the contractions had increased and the pains intense.

I was admitted into the hospital. Still, the contractions kept coming till about 4pm the next day. I was checked and they could see that I was 8cm dilated but my water had not broken. The nurses broke the water themselves to aid the labour process. After the water was broken, I was given some injections. Afterwards, I went into labour. I was taken into the labour room and at this point, I was 10cm dilated, which meant that I was ready to push out the baby. I pushed and the baby eventually came out.

Was your husband in the labour room with you?

When I was admitted, he was there all through until it was time for me to push. When that time came, he was asked to go out. After I had the baby and we were both cleaned up, he came back in.

Did you have a gender preference before your baby was born?

Well, it did not really matter to me. It was my first time; so, I just wanted a baby. It did not matter if it was a boy or a girl.

How did you find out you were pregnant?

After I got married, I was expecting my period to come. However, I was experiencing menstrual cramps a week before my period came. I even told my husband to get some sanitary pads and pain reliever so that I would be prepared when the period comes. But then, the day when I was supposed to see my period passed. I still thought that it would be the next day but it still did not come. At this point, the menstrual pain was gone. I searched the Internet for the symptoms of pregnancy because I had not really been experiencing any. During research, I read something about spotting. Basically, spotting can be a symptom of pregnancy and I was spotting. I went to a pharmacy to buy a pregnancy test kit. I tested it at home and it came out positive. Then, I went to the hospital a week later to confirm. They did a blood test which confirmed that I was pregnant.

How did you feel when you found out?

I was so happy.

Did you enjoy your pregnancy and what was the most difficult part of it for you?

Yes, I enjoyed it during the second and third trimesters but the first trimester was not funny at all. During the first trimester, I had all the symptoms that a pregnant woman could have. I was vomiting and sick. I was also so lazy because I could not eat anything. I was throwing up at every moment of the day. The first trimester was very challenging for me. After vomiting, I would be spitting and I had mood swings. I would get angry over little things. Then, during the second trimester, I started eating. I could eat up to 70 times a day and my mood was normal. Then, the third trimester was smooth. But during the ninth month, the baby had come down; so, I was feeling pressure on my leg; movement was not easy and doing some work was not easy either.

What were your cravings during pregnancy?

It changed from time to time. At one point, I was craving pounded yam. Then, all through my second trimester, I craved garden eggs a lot. I could eat it all day. Then, when it was the season of agbalumo (cherry), I could eat about 10 a day.

What part of your body changed during pregnancy that you did not like?

It was my face. Every other part of my body was perfect but my face was big. My lips and my nose were about three times the normal size. I did not really like that.

What is your baby’s name and how did you choose it?

My baby’s name is Ayokunle. The name was given to him by his grandfather. The reason was because I gave birth two days after my sister’s wedding; so, he was so happy. That was why he so christened him.

How do you balance your career and motherhood?

One has to strike a balance somehow. As of now, I am not really working because I just gave birth.

What has been the most challenging task since you gave birth?

The day I gave birth, my breast milk was not really flowing; so, I was a bit worried about that. But after about two days, it started flowing. Another thing is that waking up in the middle of the night has been a major challenge. I am not used to that; it has been difficult. One has to do it and I am getting used to it.

How is your husband coping as a first-time father?

Does he have a choice? (laughs) He has been very supportive and sometimes when the baby wakes up in the middle of the night, he carries and cuddles him.

How has breastfeeding been for you and how long do you plan to do it?

It has so far been okay for me. I plan to do breastfeeding exclusively for six months and then I’ll start introducing food to him. He would continue to breastfeed for about a year and a half.

How would you compare your life before motherhood and now?

There is a big difference. I always have to think about my baby before I make any decision. Before, I could just go out when I wanted to. But now, I have to take my baby as well as pack all the things that he needs.

What advice did your mothers and other relatives give you when you were pregnant?

The advice was mostly on health related stuff. I was told not to stress myself, go for my ante-natal classes and do some exercises – that my doctor is okay with and that is permissible to my health. I was also told not to be lazy and sit at home doing nothing. I was advised to be involved in a lot of activities and to eat what I craved and enjoy every moment.

What advice were you given that also helped you now that you have given birth?

My mother is a nurse. She has been giving me pieces of advice. She tells me to eat healthily. She advises me to eat fruits and take care of my body.

Do you want to have more children?

Of course, I want to have more children.

What lessons has motherhood taught you?

Motherhood has taught me patience and tolerance.

What advice would you give pregnant women and new mothers?

For pregnant women, I would advise them to go for ante-natal classes, take folic acid and vitamins prescribed by the doctor. It’s also important for them to take very good care of their bodies as the baby is still going to come out from there. If there is something wrong with one’s body, it could affect the baby as well.

For new mothers, they should eat enough food and fruits because the baby is also feeding from them. If the baby is not given enough breast milk, there is no way the baby will grow.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]