My meagre salary stopped me from marrying many wives –Shopeju
Eighty-five-year-old retired civil servant, Shotunde Shopeju, shares the story of his life with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN

Briefly tell us about your childhood.

I am the Osi Balogun of St. Lukes Church in Erube, Abeokuta, Ogun State. I am from Abeokuta. My parents were both from Abeokuta, Ogun State.

What I was told and I recognise is that I was born at Igbosere Street, Lagos, where MRS oil is now located on August 4, 1933.

What about your siblings?

My father, as an Egba chief and a Yoruba man, married my mother legally and other wives followed. My mother gave birth to four children. My father has quite a number of children. He had many women because he was sought after by them. Women always visited our house and we just stayed in our rooms since we had no say in what he did since he was our father.

Tell us about your education.

In those days, most Anglican children attended Christ Church Cathedral School till when they passed the infant stage. Then, they proceeded to St. John, Aroloya, St. Peters School, Faaji, Lagos or St. Paul Breadfruit, all in Lagos Island, to start Standard One to Four; then, you would return to Christ Church for Standard Five.

I went to the Christ Church Cathedral School for beginners’ class and later to St. Peters School, Lagos, which was closer to me then. Unfortunately, I didn’t finish Standard Four because of an unfortunate incident that happened to me. I was running along a gutter in 1944 and hit my forehead on the edges of the culvert.

I broke my head and the scar is almost gone now. I was in a general hospital for two weeks. After I came back from the general hospital, people were saying that I was naughty and that infuriated me.

I told my parents that I was going with my policeman uncle to Calabar, Cross River State, to complete my education. My parents granted my request. In those days, Lagos to Calabar was three days’ journey. We got to Aba around 6pm and we had to find a small hotel to sleep. Then, there was no vehicular transport in the East; it was a bicycle that took us to Oron because there were no motorcycles either. They would tie one’s load and one would have to be on the bicycle and the rider would take one from 6am till 12.45pm. The cyclist rode at a speed of one minute per mile. If you fell, you could either have dislocation or end up in the hospital.

Did you continue schooling in Cross River?

Yes, in Oron. I attended Eyo-Ita West African People’s Institute, Calabar. We didn’t stay long because my brother was transferred to Abak in Enang district. There, I attended Government School, Abak. From there, in 1944 to 1957, I learnt how to read Efik and Ibibio languages in order to pass elementary school exams.

At the time in Abak, there was a crisis in the place. My brother’s main duty was to go into the villages to arrest the criminals. When the people came to the police station, I was the one transcribing the local language to English for my brother to document. My brother was too old to learn the language. When you have grown too old, you will be impervious to learning. I translated for my brother and other policemen.

Then, Kingsway Store, Lagos, was to be opened in September; so, my brother was transferred back to Lagos as a detective to investigate shoplifters. The people would have known most of the policemen in Lagos; that was why my brother was posted to do surveillance for about a year.

I searched for an elementary school in Lagos and that was when I attended St. Saviour’s Primary School, off Aroloya Street, Lagos Island. There, I had Standard Six. I was not lucky to get into any secondary school. I also attended the evening classes of Eko boys’ High School. When Lagos City College was founded, we were the nucleus students of Lagos City College. After one year, I did late entrance examination and got admission to the C. M. S. Grammar School in 1952 to class two and passed the West African School Certificate Examination in 1957.

What did you do after then?

I was got a job in the Post and Telecommunication Department on December 9, 1957. My mates started working before then because they took their papers to various ministries. It was when I saw them collecting their salaries that it occurred to me that I should also go and work and I shouldn’t be sleeping.

I was taken in as a temporary third-class staff until the results were released. In 1962, I was confirmed as a second-class clerk in the service of the federal ministry and I rose from that to become a Principal Personnel Officer, Administration.

I retired in 1992 after 35 years service with the Federal Government. But before then, I had moved to the Nigerian Postal Services Department because Post and Telecommunications got split into NITEL and NIPOST in I985.

How much was your first salary then?

We were spending pound sterling at the time and I think my salary was N90 if converted to naira.

When did you marry?

I got married in 1967, about 10 years after I left college.

How did you meet your wife?

I met her at a birthday party of one of her relations. Unfortunately, she is late now. She died in 1997.

Where are your children?

They are all fine. One of my children worked in the civil service but she is now retired.

What are you doing in retirement?

I have been attending annual general meetings. I have shares in some organisations. Some people play lottery and coupons but I buy shares. They are like my coupons since I do not bet.

What else did you do?

When I was small, I sang in the choir. I love music so much that when musicians said one could not do music examination in Nigeria, I went to do it. I passed the Royal College of Music examination up to grade eight. I used to go for exams at YABATECH. I didn’t go for music certification in Britain because a prophecy warned that I shouldn’t travel abroad. It noted that it would be difficult for me to return home. I didn’t disobey.

Why didn’t you take your music career further?

The work given to me at my workplace was so enormous that I didn’t have time for other things. It hindered me from pursuing the career or to teach other people although I taught at a music school. Among those I taught was one Mr Keshinro, who was a police bandmaster. I don’t know where he is at the moment.

Why didn’t you marry many wives like your father?

What the government paid as salary did not make me dare to take another wife. The salary was tagged as personal emolument only. The salary was personal to one not for one to marry or nurse children.

If you had more money, would you have married more wives?

Yes, I would have married more wives. But since I was poorly paid, I could not marry as many wives as I could. My salary could feed only one wife, children and pay rent. My father was a private man and at that time, when I was to leave college, he had three houses.

Why didn’t you remarry?

It was this money issue. When my wife died, I was earning less than N3,000 (as pension). The money wasn’t sufficient for me and children; so, I had to cut my coat according to my cloth.

Did you ever consider working outside the civil service?

I counted my cost and look into the future. I was not sure of what the future held either. I am not sure I would have lived a contented life. I know that as a civil servant, after retirement, I would earn pension. Back then, some people advised me to join the banking sector but I told them that my signature could be forged easily; so, I didn’t go into banking. Even as I worked in the ministry, somebody forged my signature and cashed money on the post office counter. If I had worked in the bank, probably I would have been jailed for what I don’t know. That is why I didn’t choose the banking sector.

What are your hobbies?

When I was in school, I loved athletics; I also loved the cinemas. But now, I attend AGMs so that I can stretch my legs. I walk distances and at the meetings, we will exchange pleasantries and that make me happy.

What is your advice to young ones?

The young ones should not only hold on to their studies but they should pursue a handcraft. If white collar jobs are not readily available, they can try their hands on other things.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]