When your spouse is unsupportive
Having a partner who is unsupportive can be the most difficult issue to deal with in a relationship. It is difficult to face life issues alone without the support of the person you love. Below are ways to handle an unsupportive spouse

Consider your differences

Before you do anything, it helps to take into consideration the fact that your partner and you may have differences in how you show support to each other. Understand that we all have our own primary love languages and if the love language you have is different from your partner’s, you both may clash in showing support as well. The first thing is to pay attention to the way your partner shows his or her support. It may be through act of service or words of encouragement. However, you must be aware of your own need as well to see whether or not your partner has been supporting you.

Let your partner know how you feel

Your partner may not be aware that his or her lack of support has really caused you stress or discomfort. Instead of jumping into conclusions or accusing your partner of not being supportive, it will help if you have a conversation with him or her to let them know how you have been feeling lately. Focus on how you feel regarding how he has been behaving or speaking. For instance, start by saying, “I know you probably didn’t mean to hurt my feelings, but…” or “I know you probably had the best intentions at heart, but…” This way, your partner won’t get defensive and he will be able to understand where you are coming from. If after all the discussions and letting him or her know exactly what it is that you need from them as well as being supportive your partner is still being unsupportive, then take this as a bit of a red signal.

Make known your need

Sometimes your partner may simply not understand what it is that you need from him or her when it comes to support. Most people cannot read minds and sometimes they are expected to already know what to do or what to say without them having to be told. However, if you want your partner to be able to help and support you, then, you need to let them know what you want. If it is their words of support that mean the most to you, then tell him that. Let them know that their gesture would mean the world to you and you would appreciate it so much because the more specific you are, the better for the two of you.

Be realistic

As much as you may need support from your partner, it helps to also check yourself and see whether or not what you are asking from him may be too much. Sometimes, you may be uncertain and reluctant about doing something because you are feeling unsure about it. You may decide to tell your partner to relief the worries. However, remember that it is not your partner’s responsibility to make you happy or consistent with what you want to do.

Be supportive

When your partner tends to be unsupportive of the things you want to do, it helps to ask yourself if you are also supportive of him or her? Your partner may have some underlying resentment towards you due to previous times when you may have been unsupportive of what they wanted to do. Support must happen both ways on a regular basis regardless of what you want to do and willing to do the same to your partner.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]