I was initially sad I was pregnant again after two kids –Olaogun
A bank worker, Mrs Victoria Olaogun, shares her joys of motherhood with DOLAPO AKITOYE

When did you give birth to your son?

He was born on May 15, 2018, in Lagos.

Is he your first child?

No, he is my third child.

Describe your labour experience.

Compared to my previous labour experiences, this was the easiest labour I ever had. It was quite short. I had gone to work – as I was still working till I had the baby – and I was just relaxing and eating fruits at home because that day was particularly hectic. It was while I was at home that my water broke. I had never had that ‘water breaking’ experience in previous pregnancies. As soon as it happened, my husband and I rushed to the hospital. I was not feeling any pain and by the time I got to the hospital and I was checked, I was told that I was already 5cm dilated. Then, eventually, I started to push and it was really not that painful for me.

Was your husband with you in the labour room?

Yes, my husband was with me in the labour room.

How did you find out you were pregnant?

I was not on any contraceptives. In my last pregnancy, I had some unpleasant experiences; so, I did not just return to the hospital. When it happened, I already knew. As a form of contraceptive, my husband and I would use condom but this time, we did not use anything. After it happened and I tried to calculate it, I realised that I was pregnant and there was nothing I could do about it.

How did you feel when you found out you were pregnant?

I was unhappy. I was not happy because even though I knew that I was still going to have another baby, I was not ready for it then. But, as they say, a happy mother would give birth to a happy child; I had to change my mentality to a positive one. I started thanking God for the baby and I was even thankful that the pregnancy came when I have someone in the house helping me out. My husband was also unhappy about the development than I was; so, I had to encourage him as well. He told me that he didn’t like the symptoms that come with pregnancy – vomiting, dizziness, etc – but I had to encourage him because there was nothing we could do about them. After about 12 weeks, when we found out that we were having a boy, he became very excited, especially because we already had two girls. The pregnancy was a good gift in disguise.

Did you enjoy your pregnancy and what was the most difficult part of it?

I enjoyed it. God supplied strength. I woke up every day and prayed to God for strength and He made it available for me. The only thing was that I usually felt dizzy; I had to eat warm food often. This was quite challenging for me because of work and sometimes, it would be hard for me to get up in the morning but I had to. I ate often because if I did not eat at the right time or eat enough food, I could be hungry within the next hour and I would be dizzy. I did not like that part.

Did you have any food cravings?

This time round, I did not have any cravings.

What is your baby’s name and how did you choose the name?

My son’s name is John and his father gave him that name. He named him after John, the Beloved, in the Bible. As a Christian family, my husband gave him that name because John was a disciple who knew Jesus loved him. Also, the meaning of John itself is the gracious one and God has been very gracious throughout the pregnancy.

How have you been able to balance motherhood, home duties and work?

It has not been easy. Thank God for my mother and my mother-in-law. My two daughters have been with my mother since they are on vacation while my mother-in-law comes around to take care of the baby for me. That is how I am able to go to work and earn some money.

How soon did you return to work after giving birth?

I returned to work after two months and three weeks. The body is still crying (laughs) but I have to do what I have to do.

How would you compare your life before motherhood and now that you are a mother?

It’s incomparable. They are two different things entirely. When one is single, one does not need to think about anybody before going anywhere or doing anything. One is independent. In fact, from the moment a woman gets married, she is already a mother because the husband is like a son. One already has to become responsible. One’s thought patterns have to change and one cannot be an independent person. Decision-making is done by my husband and I which was not the case before I got married.

What part of your body changed during pregnancy that you did not like?

It was my feet. They expanded and got shapeless. Shoes do not fit me like they used to and because of that, I do not have many footwear because I have yet seen the one that fits me. I really did not like that part.

How has being a mother before helped you now as a new mother?

It is not completely different. But due to the fact that it is a different sex this time round, it is a new experience in itself. I know the basics of taking care of a baby. But now, there are new things that I am experiencing in taking care of a baby boy. For instance, when he was healing from circumcision, I could not stand that.

How has your husband been helping with the baby?

He has been fantastic. He helps me to bathe the baby when I am tired. Sometimes, he helps me carry the baby so that I can get some sleep. He has been very wonderful. He is experienced (laughs). But I know that some men would not do that but there is no time that I call my husband that he would not come to my aid.

How has breastfeeding been for you?

Due to the fact that I work, I already introduced formula. I introduced formula from the first day but it’s not like I give that to him every day. It was just for him to get used to it knowing that I would resume work. When I come back from work, I breastfeed him till the following morning and I also breastfeed him all through the weekend. Breastfeeding is wonderful but it can be stressful as well. One has to always eat and keep on drinking water.

What lessons has motherhood taught you?

Motherhood has taught me patience. In fact, when I hear the word motherhood, three things come to mind: Motherhood is work, motherhood is fun and also for me, motherhood is fulfilling destiny. I say motherhood is work because it involves the juggling of many things at once and it is not easy. It is fun because children light up the home. They cannot be kids forever; so, we learn to enjoy every moment. As for the part of fulfilling destiny, motherhood can be surprising because there are things that one thought one could never do but somehow, it is possible when one becomes a mother. At the end, one wants to raise good children that will be useful to themselves and society. I have learnt and I am still learning and I am still trying to stay on that path. I have learnt patience and to love through everything. I have learnt to have fun even when I don’t feel like it.

What advice would you give to pregnant women and new mothers?

For pregnant women, information is key. They should read up as much as they can. It’s not everything that one reads up that one takes in because the Internet is not censored but it is still important to read up. One could still lose a pregnancy even after having one or more children. It is easy to get comfortable after having a child and one might not feel the need to still get informed, but it is extremely important to stay informed. They should also not eat too much. They should eat just enough and eat healthy food so that they do not blow up unnecessarily. They should drink a lot of water and also follow their doctor’s advice. I was very nervous when I was getting towards my delivery date, but someone told me that I had to make up my mind to stay alive. I was scared when the due date was approaching that I felt like avoiding the hospital. Then, I just had to decide to stay alive and that was my thought process during labour. That helped me a lot.

For new mothers, the Lord is our strength. Money is not everything, but if one can get a job or a business that allows one to stay around one’s baby, it would be great. I wish I could do six months exclusive breastfeeding because it helps in building a baby’s immunity.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]