As a father, it’s not funny when it’s time to pay school fees — DJ Humility
Entertainer, Benedict Afagwu, otherwise called DJ Humility, talks about his fatherhood experience with OLUSHOLA RICKETTS

How would you describe fatherhood?

It the greatest feeling one can ever have; it is priceless. There is nothing like being a father. The joy is on another level provided you are a responsible father. We have people who don’t care about taking care of their children; they just give birth and move on. I commend men who cherish their children.

Were you ready when you started a family?

I was prepared for it because I got married before my wife gave birth. I already prepared to be a father. I got married to my friend, not a lover. After marriage, we started making babies and we are happy together.

When did you marry?

I married in 2009. I don’t think I married at a young age. Next month, I will be 40. I married when I was 30. It was neither late nor too early.

I was not scared of marriage. I started making money since I was young; I came into the limelight when I was 15.

Were you particular about the gender of your first child?

I was not particular about the gender. Beyonce is a top artiste and she is a woman. We have women doing well in society; so, I am not the type who feels that a male child is better than a female child.

How many children are you blessed with?

I have three boys. They are aged nine, seven and one.

Do you still wish to have a girl child?

I am okay with the children I have. My wife still wants a girl child, but I have told her that it can only happen if she wants to be Mary, the mother of Jesus. If she can get herself pregnant, I have no problem with it. I have three boys and I am through with having children.

Were you in the labour room with your wife during the birth of any of your children?

Yes, I was in the labour room with her and it made me respect women more. I was scared but the experience made me love my wife more. Carrying my first child gave me a great feeling. Seeing one’s own blood in form of a child makes one appreciate God more.

Do you use the cane on your children?

I can count how many times I have used the cane on my children. I don’t believe in using the cane every time; I believe in telling them what I don’t like. But my wife used the cane and her palms to discipline them. Women will always be women and there is nothing I can do about it because they are her children too. But at times, whenever she beats them, I feel bad. However, she has every right to discipline them.

How do you manage your time as a disc jockey and your responsibilities as a father?

It is hard, but one has to strike a balance between one’s business and the family. That is what I have been doing and I thank God for giving me a supportive wife. She understands the nature of my job and understands that it is where I get money from.

How do you reward your children?

I reward them by buying gifts and taking them out. It has worked for me a lot because children love gifts and games. Also, I take them along to my events that are children-friendly.

What did you learn from your father that has helped you in training your children?

My father didn’t joke with his kids and he spoilt us with gifts. The undying love my father gave to me is what I am giving back to my kids.

How would you describe your late father?

He was a great man. I always feel bad that he died when I was yet successful. I would have been glad he could witness what all his children had become. But my mother is still alive; she lives in Surulere, Lagos.

What led to your father’s death?

I lost my father to a fight between the Police and Army at Ojuelegba, Lagos in 2005. They burnt down the police barracks in Surulere; it was a tragedy at the time. My father was one of the two policemen who died in the mayhem. We went to court and took some steps, but you know one cannot fight the government. My father, Samuel Afagwu, was an assistant superintendent of police before his death.

Did he support your decision to become a DJ?

At the beginning, my father didn’t support me. It was a serious war between us. He had a change of heart when he saw my interview in a magazine. He was happy about it and encouraged me to continue.

What are your challenges as a father?

It is not always funny whenever it is time to pay school fees. Also, I don’t think about myself alone now; I think about everyone in the house.

My major concern is to ensure that I train my children and make them a success. I want to ensure that they are useful to society and themselves. They must have the fear of God and appreciate life.

Have you seen the traits of an entertainer in any of your children?

My first child, Mario, likes the computer and he is serious-minded, while my second son is an entertainer like me.

When do you regard as your happiest moment as a father?

Whenever I have the chance to hang out with my family, I am always happy. I work on weekends as a DJ while my children go to school on weekdays. It is always hard to find time to hang out with them, but I still look for a way because it is vital.

What do your children tease you about?

I don’t think I have noticed any. But anytime I was headed out, they would say “Daddy, you are going out again!” They always want me to stay at home with them, but I tell them I need to go out to make money for their school fees and feeding.

Also, they don’t understand why I go to work every Sunday, instead of going to church. According to them, they see their friends’ fathers in the church; so, why is my case different? They don’t know it is the nature of my job, but I try to go to church with them as a family as much as I can.

Has fatherhood changed your perspective about life?

Definitely yes! When I was yet a father, I lived recklessly; I don’t need to tell you what I did. I turned my house to a club anytime I wanted; boys and girls were invited. I was single and didn’t have to think about anyone. But as soon as I married, I stopped spending money lavishly. If I have N100 now, I don’t waste it; I think of what it can solve in the house.

What do you regard as your lowest point as a father?

God has always been blessing me. But as humans, there are days when one has little or no food at home. It is always hard for a family man during those periods, but I try to prepare for the rainy days. I recall a time I didn’t have food in the house and there was no fuel in the car and generator.

How do you cope as a father whenever you are broke?

The truth is that when one is good at what one does, one will not be stranded for too long. Along the way, one will get a call from someone. Though I may not get the exact amount I collect normally as a DJ, the job will solve immediate needs.

DJs are different from artistes. When an artiste’s music is no longer popular, it becomes hard to survive, but for DJs, people hold parties every day. So, if one is among the leading DJs in Nigeria, one must get jobs regularly.

Do you count yourself among the top five DJs in Nigeria?

I have always seen myself as the best DJ in Nigeria, not one of the best. I agree that we have good DJs, but I know what I bring to the table.

What is your advice to aspiring fathers?

Once you are not ready to be a father, you should stay away from it. Fatherhood is not a joke. Once a child comes to life, you are directly responsible for him. If he becomes good, it is on you. If he becomes bad too, you have yourself to blame. In other words, you must be ready to take care of a child once you get a woman pregnant.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]