Fathers should not leave raising children to their wives —Funsho Adeolu
Nollywood actor, Funsho Adeolu, talks about the lessons fatherhood has taught him with DOLAPO AKITOYE

What does fatherhood mean to you?

A father is a man who is responsible and in charge of heading the home in every way. It does not end at the birth of the baby. The man has to be there every step of the way.

When did you first become a father?

The first time I became a father was in 2004.

Were you in the labour room with your wife during the birth of any of your children?

Yes, I was there but I was sent out because I was very afraid for my wife (laughs). I was even more afraid than her even though she was the one giving birth. It was difficult to watch her go through such pains and I could not bear it.

Did you have any gender preference before any of your children was born?

I have two children and when I had my first child, the gender did not really matter to me. We had a boy the first time and when my wife got pregnant the second time, I was hoping for a girl but we got another boy. However, I was okay with that and I thank God.

How did you feel when your first child was born?

I was excited and I felt fulfilled.

How have you been able to balance your career with your responsibilities as a father?

It has not been very easy. But I try as much as possible to make sure that I am very close to my children. Anytime I am in the house, I am always close to them. I am not that kind of father that will come back after being on location and then head out to hang out with friends. I stay in my house and if I need to go out, I go with them. That has helped me a lot. When I go to work, they miss me a lot.

How challenging is it raising children?

Honestly, it has been God. My wife is usually at home with them. She is a businesswoman; so, her job is not a typical nine-to-five. She is always around them. My wife disciplines them when I am not at home. The little time I spend at home, I make sure I cover everything I need to cover with my family. My children are not afraid to tell me anything because we are close.

What movie will you identify as the best you have featured in?

I like every movie that I have acted in but for now, I would say my best is The Tribunal by Kunle Afolayan. It was shown late last year at the cinemas. The reason it’s my best so far is because the role I played and the way I came out as a character is different from anything I have ever done. I’ve acted as a lawyer and played different roles in movies. But in this movie, the director made me to go away from myself and it was nothing close to anything I have done before.

You have achieved much in your career. What more do you want to aim for moving forward?

I have already started a school where I train actors. It is my main target right now. I want to make it a standard one and I also want it to be affiliated to foreign film schools. I know that a lot of people are out there and do not have the opportunity to be a part of the industry. I want to give them the chance to be a part of it. I screen them first to make sure they have what it takes; I don’t just collect money.

What values are you instilling in your children which you imbibed from your father?

The values are humility and originality. My father taught me to be original in everything I do. He always told me that if I walked into a room and everybody did not look up, then I have to go back. This meant that I should set the bar high for myself. He taught me to have respect for myself. For instance, my children call me ‘Finest’ and sometimes they would say that they are Finest Jr. I tell them not to say that because they need to have an identity for themselves. They cannot dwell on my own identity; they need to create an identity for themselves and be original in their own right.

What have been your challenges as a father?

I don’t see anything as challenging; I enjoy challenges. The only that can really bother me is if I don’t have money to pay for my children’s school fees or buy them things that would make them happy. Apart from school fees, if I do not have the money to buy them things that they want anytime, I will explain to them and tell them that they would have to wait until I am able to. However, if I see that it is something that they do not need but they think that they do, I will let them know that they do not need to have it at that moment and that if they get older, they could get it. At that time, they would be working to get it for themselves.

How do you discipline them when they act up?

I am a psychologist; so, when they were between the ages of zero and five, I used the cane and my palm to spank them when they erred. Now, I don’t do that anymore. I only talk to them and explain why what they did was wrong and warn them not to do it again. They always don’t repeat it. We are raising them in a Christian way and that is the major thing. I understand what it means to be a teenager and I handle them accordingly. My wife and I also read lots of books about raising children and that has been very helpful.

How do you reward them when they make you happy?

There is always something they ask for and I will surprise them with it. For instance, recently, my son was saying that he wanted to travel. On his birthday, I took him abroad when I was travelling. My other son also likes to play instruments so I bought a saxophone for him. I use all these things to encourage them.

How do you appreciate your wife?

My wife is my everything. I always talk about her all the time. When I wake up in the morning and I look at her, I tell her that I love her. I always praise her all the time to make her feel good and I buy things for her when I can and I take her out as well.

Is any of your children showing interest in your career path?

My first born is thinking in that direction. However, we would not know for sure until he finishes school. When he finishes school and he is sure that it is something that he wants to do, I will encourage him. He might not go into acting; it might be something related to the industry. Either way, I will support him and my other son in any career path they choose. .

What makes a marriage work in your opinion?

As they say, ‘a family that prays together, stays together’. My family and I pray a lot. A couple has to have a solid foundation when they get married. If they do not have that, things might not work; it will take a lot of stress to make it work. One must ensure that one has a friend in the person one marries. One must also have the right intentions when getting married and not just do it because everyone else is getting married.

One has to be sure that one is ready and also sure about the person one is marrying. It does not mean that there would not be other obstacles or distractions in the marriage. But this is where prayer comes in. One has to be very prayerful in a marriage. Communication is also key. It is important for a couple to communicate. Whenever one has an issue with one’s spouse, one should speak on it and not bottle it up because it can build resentment which will come out in a bad way later.

It might not come out in anger but it might come out in other ways that could destroy the marriage. It is also important for a couple to understand each other. When married couples start having children, their responsibilities would increase. At this stage, it is important for them to know how to balance things, especially the man. The man should try and help out so that the wife does not feel alone. With marriage, it is a lifetime education; it is not something that can be figured out at one time. It can also be good to have a mentor that will give good advice when needed.

What advice do you have for children without fathers?

It depends on their age. If they are under five, hopefully their mothers would be there for them and support them. However, by the time they reach a certain age and they are on their own, they should know that nobody is going to help them and they should plan a very good future for themselves and not be wayward.

They should also determine in their hearts that their children will not experience what they experienced. For instance, I grew up in a broken home and I made up my mind that I will never bring up a child without a wife.

What advice would you give would-be fathers?

They should know what they are doing. They should not leave everything to their wives. I used to help my wife with the children when they were babies. Whenever they cried at night, I would help her take care of them. It is important for them to be supportive in every way and ensure that their wives do not feel alone in raising the children. They should also get a good job to be able to cater to the needs of their family.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]