I waited for 22 years before I remarried to allow my kids mature — Farombi
Eighty-year-old Reverend Gabriel Farombi is a former General Overseer of the Foursquare Gospel Church. He shares the story of his life with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN

Where and when were you born?

I was born on Friday, August 12, 1938 in Ifo Local Government Area of Ogun State. I was educated a bit in the village then I moved to the state capital, Abeokuta, to complete my primary education and then secondary school education in Lagos.

What did you do after completing secondary school?

I started working with the then Electricity Corporation of Nigeria which now has a new name. I was there until I became the regional personnel manager. There I was trained to be proficient in my profession. I took many courses at the Yaba College of Technology, especially in personnel management. When I left the organisation, I was the Regional Personnel Officer of the Kainji, and the defunct Western Region. I was overseeing almost half of the people working in the organisation as of then.

How old were you when you started work at the ECN?

I was exactly 20 years and I served for 20 years before I withdrew my services.

How did you venture into ministry?

In 1980, I voluntarily withdrew my services due to the promptings of the Holy Ghost even though many people pleaded with me to wait until I was due for gratuity. But the promptings were so heavy and I felt that I should obey the Holy Ghost rather than men. I entered into full-time service in December 1980; exactly 38 years ago. No sooner had I withdrew my services than it appeared the Lord was waiting for me. I was appointed as the Director of Missions at the Foursquare convention in 1980 in addition to my work as the National Treasurer and National Music Director. I handled these three positions for some years. I was the Director of Missions for seven years and during my tenure, the Lord favoured us to open many branches in Nigeria, London, Israel and the United States of America. I held that position before it pleased the Lord to make me the General Overseer of the church in 1984. The Lord also gave me the privilege to serve the church for 15 years from 1984 to 1999 when I also felt the leading of the Lord to personally set myself aside and allow some younger ones to take over the leadership of the church.

What have you been doing after you quit as the General Overseer of the church?

After that, I left for the US and the Lord opened another door where I took up a little church in Chicago known as Grace Pentecostal Foursquare Church which has grown greatly.

The Lord also helped me to establish a praying ministry called, Refreshing Ministries International; where we pray at different times of the day. Several people have been blessed through it and many spectacular testimonies were born through the prayers.

As the name implies, Refreshing Ministries; it attends to the needs of the people spiritually, physically, materially and in many other ways.

When did you marry?

I got married in 1966. My first marriage took place on January 24. The marriage was cut short when my wife was called to glory on August 6, 1970 after delivering our third child. I waited for 22 years before I remarried on December 24, 1992 to my present wife.

Why did you wait that long before taking a second wife?

My first wife died after delivery of our third child, the children were very young. The first child was less than four years. I was determined that I was going to allow my children to grow up enough to be able to take care of themselves before I remarry. I believe man would always be man; no matter how spiritual a person is. I didn’t want them to suffer any discrimination or abuse. I also did not want a situation where they would feel unloved. The Lord helped me that they all completed their university education before I remarried.

Did you not feel the need for a wife and mother for the children?

Well, as God would have it, the three of them were loved and felt loved by those who took care of them. The first child and second children were taken care of by a wonderful, God-prepared, spirit-filled woman who played the role of a mother and showed them so much love. Many people offered to help take care of the last baby which was just given birth to before the mother died.

I remember that we went to the late Dr. Olikoye Ransome-Kuti that we wanted a place where they take care of the motherless babies. I remember vividly his advice that I should not enroll the child in such a place because he would grow without a mother and father figure and become wild because he feels nobody cares for him. To God be the glory, He prepared one of my siblings to stand in for him as a mother and he was with him till he completed his university education.

As for me, I had that determination, and then coupled with my position as the head of the church, the Lord helped me to do many things that I might have been unable to achieve if I was married. I do not regret to have waited that long. The Lord used that opportunity to do many things that I might not have done if I were attached to someone.

How did you know that your present wife was the one for you?

People will come to help and for some their actions will speak. But because I had made up my mind that I was not going to remarry if my children were not grown, it helped me. She was a member at my church when I was a pastor in Surulere area of Lagos. I never knew her even when she was at Yaba and I was there too. I didn’t still notice her until I went for a programme in Abuja and saw her. We met and we left everything until the appointed time.

What are your children into now?

They are all doing well. Two of them are based in London. One of them who is a medical doctor is in Canada and the last born is now a father of two. He is in Nigeria. I thank God they are all well placed.

What are some of the challenges you faced as a minister?

One thing that you must be established is that it is God that calls any minister and one must be sure that it is God who calls. There is no one God calls that will not have opposition; first from satan who will not want one to do God’s work and from people who may be envious or jealous and from oneself that one cannot do it because one is unfit.

There will also be those who appreciate, admire and encourage one and those who will criticise and say all sorts of evil things about one. These people will not see anything good in whatever one does. But the Lord who calls one will continue to assure that He is with one.

Can you recall some spectacular experience you had in the course of your calling?

There are many experiences. We had many experiences of travelling in the day and night and God in His mercies kept protecting us. One of such cases was when we travelled to Cross River State and we saw some armed robbers who were demanding money from people. When they we got to them, we said we were missionaries and we didn’t have money except tubers of yam. They collected them and let us go.

Another instance was when we went to the same Cross River, precisely Calabar, it was during the Nigeria’s Civil War. People were killed like chickens but amidst the perils, the Lord protected us. We said we were missionaries and we were not touched. There are many instances. I remember another time when we travelled to Kenya for a seminar. After the programme in December 1994, we decided to visit our branches in Uganda and Tanzania. On our way to Uganda, we had an accident. I was able to come out of the car but the broken glasses had injured me seriously leaving blood all over me.

My wife was still inside the car and I couldn’t pull her out because of the injury I had. When I saw people coming our way, I thought they were coming to help us but I didn’t know they were coming to steal from us. They took our money, passports and bags; everything. My wife eventually came out and I was rushed to a hospital for first aid. At the hospital, they had nothing not even cotton wool, so I had to leave. When we got to our destination, I was treated. Thankfully, we appealed to the people and our passports were returned to us. When I returned to Nigeria, I went to a private hospital where I was properly treated. I was examined to be sure I had no internal injury.

What is your advice to young ministers?

The calling of God is without repentance. The Lord calls irrespective of the age, just like Samuel was called at a young age. But they must be very sure that the Lord called them. They must not presume. There are people who are in the ministry because of what they will gain; they have one of their eyes on God and the other on what they stand to get, so they are not focused. They must know who has called them and the purpose for the call.

The Lord will lead one to be effective in the calling. They must be willing to fulfill God’s calling. It may be difficult initially but they must be ready to stand till the end. They must also know the area of their calling. Some are called to be pastors, some administrators and all that. The fact that you are called does not mean that you must be a pastor. God rewards faithfulness not position.

What is your favourite food?

I love African dishes a lot. I am never tired of them. I eat more of vegetables and fruits too. Also, I have been advised to eat a lot of greens.

What would you be doing if you are not preaching or teaching?

I would be reading the Bible, meditating, praying or thinking of beautiful people who have helped me and shown me kindness in the course of my journey.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]