Dad never complained that we called him brother — Michael Ibru’s daughter
Elvina, daughter of the late businessman, Olorogun Michael Ibru, speaks with OLUSHOLA RICKETTS about her father

Tell us more about yourself.

I am the average girl next door. I am the last of my mother and the eleventh child of my father; we are 17 children. Though I am from a polygamous home, my late mother was the first wife and she had seven children. My mother died 27 years ago; I was 17 when she died

How was growing up in the Ibru family?

My growing up was nice and lovely. I had a strong mother. Even though we are from a polygamous background (Ibru married five wives), we didn’t feel it because my mother kept the family together. She made sure we got along with other siblings and we didn’t know the difference while growing up. If she went through any trauma, we never knew about it.

My parents also demonstrated a lot of love and generosity to people. During any festivity, it wasn’t just the family that enjoyed but everyone around us. My parents would kill cows; we would send to families and go to the streets to feed beggars. Those are memories that still remain dear to me. Also, I was so close to my siblings and cousins. My father and his siblings were very close and many of them lived close to us in Apapa, Lagos. I grew up with my siblings and cousins as a big family.

Did you enjoy privileges as Michael Ibru’s daughter?

Of course, there were privileges which my parents told us. For instance, going to school in England and wearing expensive clothes were privileges. We had many things our peers didn’t have. But my father also instilled in us that good things didn’t come without hard work and we should never take advantage of being born with a silver spoon. He also told us never to look down on anyone as no one knows tomorrow.

Growing up, however, being my father’s child came with huge pressure. It was normal for people to expect you to be greater than your parents, but how do you want to be greater than Michael Ibru? I am sorry for the ones who came before me. Being the youngest and a girl child, the pressure is not intense as what my elder brothers will face. Maintaining the empire my father created is not even good enough for my siblings and I. People expect us to expand my father business concerns, bigger than what he left behind. For me, people feel that all I have done in my life is because I am an Ibru.

When I was working as an on-air personality a few years ago, somebody said she was shocked when she heard me on radio. She said she didn’t know I was very good. But if I was not good, would they have put me on air? Even If I buy a car today or secure a good contract, people will still link it to my father’s name and connection. As an actress, if I decide to talk to investors about a movie project, they may not take me seriously because I am an Ibru. But we don’t wake up in the morning and see a bag of money waiting for us outside. I have been working since I was 17.

How do you feel that people always link whatever you achieve to your father’s name?

While growing up, I felt bad. I even considered changing my name at a time so that people would begin to appreciate my efforts. But you know the mind changes as maturity sets in. Later, I just concluded that there was nothing I could do about it. Even if I become a billionaire tomorrow, they will still address me as Michael Ibru’s daughter. It is not a bad thing that my father was a great man and I have always been proud of him; I am also proud to be his daughter. I am not worried any longer as long as I know what I am capable of doing.

How would you describe your father?

We used to call him brother and the humble fisherman. I grew up knowing my father as brother and my mother as aunty. Though I may be wrong, I am sorry if my brothers get to read this. I heard that since he was the eldest in his family, they couldn’t just call him Michael. He was the first of seven children. His siblings were always calling him Brother Michael and later shortened it to brother. When we were born, we heard all our aunties and uncles calling him brother; so, we followed suit. While he was alive, I didn’t for a day called him daddy or father.

Similar thing applied to my mother too. Since my mother was married to their eldest brother, my uncles and aunties couldn’t just call her by the name.

Did he complain that the children called him brother?

He never complained about it. In fact, I think he loved it and it confused people a lot. My father was a very humble person and he accepted everyone. If I start telling the story of his kindness and generosity, this interview will not be over in a day. I do not say this because he was my father; I saw it with my eyes and people say it everywhere. There was a day I was at a gathering in England and the Ibru name came up. Of course, nobody knew I was an Ibru. They started talking about my father and I didn’t say a word. I was moved to tears when I heard the kind things they said about him.

He was very generous and funny. He had a sharp sense of humour, but if you were not clever, you would not understand him.

Did he use the cane on his children?

I am not sure he caned me once. But it is possible that my other siblings have different opinions about this. Also, I was not naughty as a child so there was no need for him to whip me. I think he was once strict with my sister, Gloria, on her academics.

Being the baby of the house, it is possible that he had become tired of using the cane when they gave birth to me. As parents get older, they become tired of chasing children with the cane. He was very gentle and kind to me.

Everyone respected or feared him like he was supernatural, but I didn’t treat him like that. He used to laugh at my cheekiness rather than be mad at me. I would jump on him, not minding his state of health or mind. When I was all over him, sometimes, he would say the Cameroonian blood had taken hold of me. My mother was from both Cameroon and Germany.

What were the things he didn’t like?

I cannot remember honestly, but he was such a cool person. But he didn’t like dishonesty in any form – lies or stealing. He didn’t find it necessary because once you needed money, he would give you. If you needed to do anything at all, he would find a solution. If he thought it was not a good idea, he would advise you on what to do.

Also, he used to get upset whenever we didn’t do well in school. He wanted all his children to be educated. He became too busy looking after his younger ones and turned out to be the only one who didn’t go to the university. He finished Form 6 at the age of 17 or 18 and he started working almost immediately. But the standard of education then was better than now. He became a manager at the age of 24. I don’t really know the business side of him. Though it was possible things got him angry at work or in meetings, I can’t tell that.

How did he find time to relax?

I don’t know honestly. He didn’t just do everything effortlessly, he was always looking fresh and fine too. Despite having many ventures both in Nigeria and abroad, he knew all his staff members by their names. Regardless of his tight schedule too, he found time to always take me out to lunch when I was in England. But people who don’t do much will say they are busy. I wonder what they do.

Did he regret not going to the university?

While he was alive, he regretted not going to the university all the time. It was the reason he pushed us to go to the university. He would tell us to earn a degree even though we had no interest in working with it. He told us it was a thing he regretted he didn’t do. I am sure he wanted to go back to school, but he became so busy with work. He later got different honorary degrees.

How did he die?

He had been battling with an ailment called Parkinson’s disease for years. Once you have it, there is nothing you can do about it but to look for a way to manage it. When he couldn’t control his hands again, the family decided to move him to the US. We were worried about malaria and other ailments in Nigeria. The Nigerian weather is very different; harmattan season alone can give one sickness. We also thought of how quickly we would get him to the hospital if there was an emergency.

At different times, when he was alive, there was always one child or more with him in the US. But my sister was with him permanently. There were times my sister would call and tell us he was rushed to the hospital. But like the lion he was, he would overcome the situation. Whenever we were informed that he was taken to the hospital, we would prepare our minds that anything could happen. But when he finally passed on, he didn’t give us any hint. He just went to bed and didn’t wake up. He died at the age of 85 on September 6, 2016 in the US.

While he was sick, he was so strong and handsome that we often forgot that he was old. When my brother or sister called me to break the news of his death, I ran outside and threw up. Before my father died, he was no longer talking. He loved music; so, if we wanted to stimulate him, we played music.

What do you miss most about him?

I miss his sense of humour and fatherly advice. No matter how busy he was, if you could reach him, he would give you attention. I remembered walking into a room where he was with some big men; I wouldn’t be surprised if former President Olusegun Obasanjo was there on that day. I was 13 then. He just took an excuse and told them he wanted to attend to his daughter. I miss his attention and wittiness. But sometimes, it could be hard to reach him. Those days, we didn’t have mobiles as we do now.

Were there things he still wanted to do before death?

For a man like Michael Ibru, I don’t think so! But if he had not become ill, I am sure he would have conquered the world. He had the vision of foresight. It was his gift.

My regret was that he became sick when I was ready to venture into business, as he would have supported me greatly. There was also a time I wanted him to buy the National Theatre, Iganmu, so that we could renovate and bring it back to its former glory. Unfortunately, he took ill. I would drive there almost every day and cry. I wondered what happened to the magnificent building.

He would have been the only person to seal the deal. When Michael Ibru called you for a meeting, you would honour it. But when his daughter calls you, you may not take her seriously. If he wasn’t ill, he would have done things we couldn’t have thought of because when he was alive, he did things we didn’t think of.

What was his success secret?

I don’t know; I am not a witch. If I had known, I would have been successful like him. I think he was just an extremely gifted young man. Even when he was in secondary school in Igbobi College, Yaba, he was a head boy, a sports person and was also involved in other things. He listened to people; people who know a lot listen a lot as well. He always told me that I should listen more than I talk.

What are the things you don’t like about him?

The only thing I didn’t like about my father was being a polygamist, which is an obvious reason for one not to be happy with his or her father. Like I said earlier, while I was younger, we didn’t know the difference because my mother kept the family together. But of course, no one will be happy that his father always leaves the mother at home to be with another woman. It is not something any married woman should experience, but their time is different from ours. We have more monogamists now unlike those days that it seemed like there was something wrong with a man if he didn’t marry more than a wife.

Do you think he regretted marrying many wives?

I have no idea about that. I never spoke to him in that regard.

Do you know his favourite food?

He loved efo riro with snails. Also, he didn’t like big pieces of meat. If you gave him a big one, he would look at you and smile. You have to cut the meat into pieces. Till today, if I cook, you cannot see big pieces of meat.

My father loved Nigerian food a lot and he has a peculiar but funny way of eating ‘eba.’ After giving him the garri and hot water, he would pour the garri inside the water himself. Without turning the whole garri, he would be cutting it steadily. He used silver plate to eat so it kept the food hot. He loved eating food in small portions. If you served him plenty food, he would get tired easily.

For me too, I make my garri on the fire after pouring hot water. If I don’t cook it well, I don’t enjoy it.

Everyone knows how to cook in my house. My mother was born and raised in Oron, Akwa Ibom. When it comes to domestic work, even my brothers are good at it. My brothers’ wives are extremely clean because my brothers can’t tolerate dirtiness.

What do you think are the legacies he left behind?

Apart from his name, what else could he have left behind? If you mean property, I don’t know which one to mention. In fact, we are still discovering some property we didn’t know existed.

There is a belief in the Ibru family that we don’t sell our belongings. My father told me that one cannot be poor if one has assets.

Is it true that his family is fighting over his property?

Every family has one dispute or the other. The fact that some families are not well known doesn’t mean they don’t fight. There are certain things you take to court for legal reasons and not because of any dispute. If you were at my nephew’s wedding held recently and you saw my brothers and me, you would agree with me that the family is united.

When you come from a large family, everyone has to be taken care of. There are things you need to take to court for them to be done properly, but it doesn’t mean we are tearing each other’s clothes at home. Even if a village man has two plots of land, his children will still share them when he dies. But if someone wants to take more for some reason, they will take the matter to the village court. Trust me, my family has no issues as it has been painted.

What were your father’s concerns for Nigeria?

I really don’t know because we didn’t talk politics. Though there was a time he showed interest in politics, we all kicked against it including my mother. We were afraid that once he joined politics, people would forget that he had made money before dabbling into politics.

What values did you imbibe from him?

He taught me to put God first in everything I do and to always be humble. He would always say that no matter how one raises one’s shoulders, it can never be bigger than one’s head. He taught me hard work as he believed one would only reap what one had sown. I also learnt the act of giving from him.

What would you like to change about him if you had the opportunity?

The immediate thing is wishing he was not a polygamist, but I wouldn’t have my lovely brothers and sisters if he wasn’t a polygamist. I don’t think there is something I like to change about him. If I were to come back to this world, I would still like to come as his daughter. Though people have this impression that I was spoilt since I am the youngest child of my mother, it was the opposite actually. My mother died when I was yet to start life. Mothers are the only persons who fight for their children. Sometimes, I think that my elder brothers and sisters enjoyed life a bit more than me. But I also understand the pressure that comes with being older children in the family.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]