It dawned on me I was growing old when I became a grandpa — Fabamwo
The Chairman of the Yoruba Tennis Club and professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at the Lagos State University College of Medicine, Adetokunbo Fabamwo, shares what fatherhood has taught him with DOLAPO AKITOYE

What does fatherhood mean to you?

Fatherhood is a lifelong thing. Fatherhood does not stop at the delivery of one’s baby. It is something one has to do until death because one has to see to the growth, development and successes of one’s children.

Did you marry at an age you considered late?

No, I think I got married too early. I got married at 27 and that is early compared to children of today who wait till they are above 30. However, this is for good reason because our time was a bit different. At 27, I finished medical education and I had worked for about three years. I also had some savings and in those days, it was easy to find girls that didn’t mind that a man did not have a lot of money in his bank account. A man could find a woman that was ready to start life together with the man and gradually make things work. But these days, I believe that the ladies are waiting for ‘made boys’, boys that have already made it.

When did you first become a father?

That was in 1981. I was 27 years old and my first child was a boy.

How many children do you have?

I have four children.

Were you in the labour room during the birth of any of your children?

Yes. I was there for the birth of my first child. As a matter of fact, that day, I was on duty in the labour ward. I was the labour ward registrar at the University College Hospital, Ibadan. We lived in the staff quarters within the premises. My neighbour transferred my wife, who was in labour, to the labour ward and I was on duty in the ward. But her consultant had requested that he should be informed anytime my wife went into labour. The consultant was informed and he came around to deliver the baby while I was in the operating theatre delivering another patient who had a breached presentation.

When I finished my own surgery, I discovered that my wife had been delivered of the baby normally by the consultant and of course, I was excited. I was not there for the birth of my second and third children but my last child was delivered virtually by me because by the time we got my wife to the hospital, she was ready to have the baby. In fact, by the time the young doctor came around and he saw me, he was quite petrified that the wife of his consultant was in the labour ward. The poor boy was shaking like a jelly. But luckily, the baby came out easily and between the two of us, we managed the delivery.

Did you have any gender preferences before the birth of any of your children?

Yes. I wanted a boy first and we got a boy. I wanted a girl next and we got a girl. Thereafter, things just went haywire because I wanted more girls and I didn’t get them.

How did you feel when your first child was born?

I was excited but my excitement was overshadowed by the fact that he was born with a respiratory problem. I think he had swallowed some amniotic fluid and so he was not breathing too well which created a lot of anxiety in the first few days of his birth. He had to be in the neo-natal intensive care unit. I was happy but at the same time, the anxiety of whether he would survive or not really overshadowed our joy but eventually, he made it and he is doing well.

What set you on your career path?

I attended Government College, Ibadan, one of the best secondary schools in Nigeria at the time. At GCI, our ambitions were tailored towards either becoming a doctor or an engineer. It was a purely science-oriented school. It was in the latter years that art subjects were introduced into the A level classes. At the school, one was either thinking of becoming a doctor – if your best subject was Biology – or an engineer – if you had Physics as a favourite subject. Also, my mother really wanted a doctor in the family. My sister is a pharmacist; so, I was encouraged by my family to study medicine. I got admitted as a pioneer medical student at the University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University) and spent six years, which eventually culminated into my becoming a doctor. I did the normal internship at the University College Hospital. I did the National Youth Service Corps at the Air Force Medical Centre, Kaduna. Then, I came back and decided that I wanted to be an obstetrician and gynaecologist.

I returned to the UCH and did residency training in obstetrics and gynaecology. I spent part of the training (one year) at the Rotunda Hospital, Dublin, Ireland, and I finally got my fellowship in 1986. I wanted an academic career but there was no vacancy at the UCH. So, I had to come to Lagos to work with the Lagos State Government Civil Service for about 19 years before I finally had a chance to start an academic career.

In between, while I was working with the Lagos State Government, I was not too far away from academics. As a matter of fact, I did research and had some publications and I did everything that academics do. When I fully joined academics in 2005, I joined as a senior lecturer. By 2008, I was promoted to associate professor and by 2013, I became a full professor of obstetrics and gynaecology.

In a way, one could say that I lost 19 years that I could have put into academics. But there is no regret because at the end of the day, I made it to the top of the academic profession as a full professor of obstetrics and gynaecology.

Was there any particular reason why you chose obstetrics and gynaecology as your specialisation?

I think it was mainly by exclusion. I knew that I did not want to be an internist – someone that specialises in internal medicine. I found it too boring for me. I knew that I did not want to be a paediatrician because I didn’t have a way with babies. I knew that I did not want to be a general surgeon because I’m not interested in all the things they remove during surgery. I knew I was surgically inclined and the only other specialty that would involve interesting surgery was gynaecology. But in Nigeria, one cannot be a gynaecologist alone, one has to be an obstetrician as well and that means one has to be involved in delivering babies and looking after complicated pregnancies. By training, I became an obstetrician and gynaecologist. I felt that it was an area with a lot of future. As a matter of fact, when we trained at the University of Ife in those days, our training was tailored towards maternal and child health; so, emphasis was placed on paediatrics, obstetrics and gynaecology. We were also made to know that the highest disease burden in Nigeria involved children and their mothers. So, right from the University of Ife medical school, that inspiration to be a saviour of women had been in me. It wasn’t really a difficult decision to make to become an obstetrician and gynaecologist.

Is any of your children following in discipline?

One of my children is a doctor. In fact, the only daughter I have is a doctor but she specialises in public health. But interestingly, she has shown interest in reproductive public health which has some affiliation with gynaecology. I think I must have influenced her in that direction.

How were you able to manage your career and role as a father when you stated working?

Thankfully, I only started the path of fatherhood when I was a resident doctor at the UCH. While I was a house officer and a youth corps member, I was still single and so it was easy to manage my life. But as soon as I started residency programme at the UCH, I was already married. The UCH environment was a friendly one for a resident doctor. We lived within the compound and therefore, getting to work was very easy for us. Even if one was on-call duty, one did not really miss the home because one could easily hop in and out of the flat. It is difficult now unlike in the past when resident doctors were having things easy. Most of the hospitals no longer have residences where the doctors could stay. So, doctors have to leave their homes and stay in the hospital for days when they are on-call and they would miss their families. There was no such problem in the 80s. With our little salary, we could afford to send our children to good private schools and we could afford many other things which are unaffordable these days.

Why did you join the Yoruba Tennis Club?

It is a social club and a tennis club. There used to be a European Tennis Club somewhere in Lagos Island where expatriates and blacks played tennis together. But at a point in time, the blacks felt like they were being discriminated against. So, a group of Lagosians decided to pull out and form their own tennis club and luckily, they found a plot of land and started a tennis club.

I joined Yoruba Tennis Club about 30 years ago. I was attracted to it because it is a traditional club. It is a club that has core values of traditional respect for elders, norms and customs. It is a club that is quite peculiar. One would not find a club like it anywhere around. It is a club where members tend to know each other very well and they even know details of each other’s activities. These attracted me to the club. I served as a committee member and as an honorary secretary about 20 years ago. I have served as vice-chairman of the club and now, by the grace of God, I am the chairman of the club.

Is any of your children a member of the club?

We encourage our children to join the club but we want them to have self-achieved first before joining the club. We want them to have a settled marital home, good jobs, good income and settled their lives generally. This is because it could be quite distracting if a young man joins a club and he has really not settled his home or settled his career. So, none of my children has joined but I believe in the near future, when they are fully settled, we would encourage them to join.

What values did you imbibe from your father that have guided you as a father?

The principal values that I imbibed from my father are integrity and a desire to help. My father taught us integrity. He taught us to be honest people. He taught us that a good name is better than gold and silver. He also taught us to do good at all times. As a matter of fact, my father advised me that each day I go out, I must try and help somebody. Integrity, honesty and the protection of my family name are some of my core values. I am always excited at any opportunity I have to help somebody or put a smile on somebody’s face.

How did you discipline your children when they did wrong?

First of all, my wife is a deeply spiritual woman and we brought our children up along the ways of godliness. We’ve always had a family altar where we pray and we always encouraged them to attend Sunday school. When they erred, we admonished them. We hardly applied the cane or the rod on them. Occasionally, we did when they truly did wrong. But it was more of making them see reason why what they did was wrong and why they shouldn’t do it again.

How did you reward them when they made you happy?

We ensured that they enjoyed all the good things that children of their ages enjoyed. We tried to make sure that they had good holidays and enjoyed outings with us. Anytime they did very well, we bought them gifts.

What has been a major challenge for you as a father?

There have not been much challenges. I would say that because I came from a very solid and united family background and I am lucky to marry a wife who has made almost 40 years of marriage pure bliss, we haven’t had a lot of challenges. We are always united in our approach to our children. We always made sure that we spoke with the same voice.

There was no issue of contradicting each other whenever we had to deal with our children and that helped a lot. This is because children may be fond of wanting to use ‘divide and rule’, thinking that if they get the support of one parent, they reduce the effect of the other parent’s discipline. However, we did not allow that to happen. We always spoke with one voice and whenever they saw that, they adjusted.

What makes a marriage work in your opinion?

I think the major thing nowadays that will make a marriage work is financial capability to run a home. A man must always be the man of the house. However, I am told that these days, it is getting more difficult for men to be the men of the home. I am told that because of the economy, a lot of women now work very hard to support in a way that they did not have to do before.

What do your children mostly tease you about?

They tease me about Yoruba Tennis Club mostly. Even my grandchild, who is four, also does the same. Anytime, he is with me and I’m going out, he says, “Grandpa, you are going to Yoruba Tennis Club.” I think they know about my love for the club and sometimes, when I come in late, they easily conclude that I must have been at the club.

How does it feel to be a grandfather?

It is exciting. It was about five years ago that I became a grandfather for the first time and it created an awareness in me that I am getting old. I had always seen myself as never getting old. I always had a youthful spirit in me but by the time my daughter was having a child, I realised that time is really getting on and perhaps, there are certain things that one should not be doing again.

What advice would you give to children without fathers?

If they have mothers, they should pray that their mothers would be strong enough to raise them. This is because lack of a father figure is a serious thing. It always shows up. I think what single mothers and widows should do is to adopt a father figure amongst one of the relations who would mentor the children because the lack of the discipline of the father tends to affect children’s general behavioural patterns.

What is your advice to would-be fathers?

First, I do not feel anybody has any business wanting to become a father if he is not financially, psychologically and emotionally ready to be a father. This is because being a father has its own challenges and there is money to be spent. There are demands that are going to be made on one’s psyche and emotions and therefore, one needs to be ready for that.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]