Coping with overbearing in-laws
Coping with overbearing in-laws can be a struggle especially when they constantly annoy you. Here are a few ways to handle the issue without creating problems in the family

Gain control of your temper

If you are upset about a situation that recently happened between you and your in-laws, rather than shouting and creating a scene, be calm about it. Talking to your spouse when you are still angry may not give you the result you desire. It is best to wait until you are calm.

Talk to your spouse

Pull your spouse aside once you are calm and explain the situation. It can be a tough because your spouse may feel torn between you and his or her family. So, avoid starting the conversation with “I don’t or I won’t” statements. Rather, say something like, “I feel helpless when your mother comes over and brings the kids candy when I have asked her not to, but she keeps doing it.”

Show your support

Discussing difficult matters regarding family can create tension. However, if you and your spouse can’t get on the same page, you will have a hard time getting your in-law to change their behaviour. Remember that you both want the same things and desire peace to remain in the relationship. Stay focused on the common ground between you to avoid a rift. You should approach your in-laws about the issue as a unified front. Also, keep the issues happening with your in-laws separate from your relationship with your spouse. Don’t blame your spouse for their family’s behaviour.

Clarify your boundaries

After you have shared your feelings with your partner, take an objective approach. Take a step back and get a clearer view of the situation. For instance, ask yourself some questions like what is happening that you don’t want to happen or what needs to happen to make the situation better. It will help solve the problem.

Be assertive

Be assertive when communicating your boundaries. Allowing your spouse speak up about the boundaries you have decided are important to you. Do so calmly and assertively, without backing down or negotiating. For instance, your spouse might say something like, “Dad, we are not interested in having the children baptised. We want to wait until they’re older and let them decide on their religious beliefs. Please respect our decision.”

Pick your battles

According to www.wikihow.com, when it comes to family, you will have to learn how to choose your battles based on what is most important. Don’t go to war with your spouse or their family about every single issue that arises. Let some minor issues slide in order to focus on the bigger issues. For example, you might want to overlook the fact that your sister-in-law gave your children too much candy. However, if she lets your children watch violent or offensive movies; you might have a word with her about it.

Avoid their triggers

For some in-laws, overbearing behaviour follows a specific pattern. Maybe they interfere when you don’t give them a role or a voice. Maybe they act overly controlling when you seem like you don’t need them. Try to identify a probable cause behind their overbearing behaviour. Then learn to avoid them to minimise their need to be overbearing.

Find ways of coping with anger or stress

You and your in-laws are bound to disagree. So, devise healthy ways of coping with the anger or frustration you feel when this happens. Losing your cool won’t make family matters smoother, so turn to more adaptive coping strategy like taking some time for yourself during their visit and letting your spouse spend time with them without you.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]