I craved party jollof during pregnancy that I wanted to beg for it at a ceremony — Ehiremen
A legal practitioner, Mrs Precious Ehiremen, shares her experience of motherhood with DOLAPO AKITOYE

When and where was your daughter born?

She was born on October 20, 2017 at a private hospital in Ajao Estate, Lagos.

Describe your labour experience.

I did not go through the normal labour process as I had a caesarean section. I was at home having dinner when my water broke. I called my sister and told her what I was going through. She told me to go to the hospital immediately. I called the matron and she told me to get my things and start coming to the hospital. It was 8pm then. When I got to the hospital, I was checked and they said I was not dilating. The next day, they induced me and I was in so much pain but I still wasn’t dilating so the doctor decided that we should wait till the next day to see what would happen. By the next day, the situation had become a little complicated to the point that they had to do a caesarian section immediately. This was because I was already tired and in pain and when they checked the baby’s heartbeat, they could see that she wasn’t breathing so well and they needed to bring her out as soon as possible.

Was your husband in the labour room with you?

He was with me before the caesarean section but they asked him out of the theatre as soon as it was time for the caesarean section.

How did you find out you were pregnant and how did you feel when you knew?

I missed my period. I called my sister and asked for her opinion and she suggested that I should buy a pregnancy test kit and find out if I was pregnant. I went to a pharmacy, bought a test kit and checked and it showed a positive sign. Then my husband and I decided to go to the hospital and confirm that I was indeed pregnant. We were very excited and I was relieved because my mother was already asking me when I would have a baby. It definitely took a lot of pressure off my head and it made everybody happy.

Did you have a gender preference before your baby was born?

Not really. It’s my first child so I was just telling God that I would take whatever He gives me.

Did you do a scan to find out the gender?

No, I didn’t. I wanted to wait until I give birth so I only bought unisex baby items.

What is your baby’s name and how did you choose it?

Her name is Bernice Deborah Onosedeba Ehiremen. The circumstances of her birth made us choose the names. When she came out, I was not conscious and I was told that she did not cry. They had to hit her to make her cry. She had taken in some fluids, so it was not easy at all. She had gone through so much when she was born. They had to give her drip and injection and she was kept in a separate room from me.

What was her weight at birth?

She weighed 4.5kg.

What was the most difficult part of pregnancy?

The first trimester was difficult for me. I was always sick and I threw up a lot. I also had mood swings so it was not easy. In fact, I threw up all through the pregnancy even up until the day I went into labour. I really did not like that aspect at all.

Did you have any cravings during pregnancy?

Yes, I did. I craved the type of jollof rice they serve at parties. It was so bad that there was a time some people were having a party behind my house and I really wanted to go there and beg them to give me jollof rice.

What physical changes happened to you during pregnancy which you did not like?

I had stretch marks and I really did not like it. I complained about it a lot and my husband kept on telling me that it is not too obvious but I just did not like it.

Did your baby arrive on the expected due date?

It was on the due date that I started having labour pains but due to the complications, she did not come on that day.

What has been the most challenging task for you since you became a mother?

The most challenging part for me has been finding a balance as a wife, mother and my job. It has not been an easy task because all those aspects of my life need attention. I have had trouble balancing everything and sometimes, something suffers for the other. I am still trying to figure it all out.

What are some things that you have observed in taking care of a new born?

Well, one needs to pay a lot of attention to newborns. One also has to be careful in the way one handles them because their immune system is not so strong and any little thing can make them ill. One always has to watch them. They should not be left with strangers and one always has to be around them.

How would you compare your life before motherhood and now?

There is a huge difference. In fact, my life before marriage and motherhood is so different compared to now. I became a mother not too long after I got married because I got pregnant just a few months after marriage. When I was single, I had more time for myself and I could do whatever I wanted. I made decisions based on how I felt. I did not need to consider a lot of things before making any decision. Now, before I think of doing anything for myself or even my husband, I think about my baby first. There has definitely been a big difference. I am more cool-headed now and more compassionate. Now, I actually understand what it means to love someone more than I love myself.

What advice did your mother and other relatives give you about motherhood that helped you?

Well, my mother advised me to not give my baby to just anybody. She also told me not to do the same thing that everybody was doing because each child is different and what works for one child might not work for the other. She advised me to study my child and know what she needs.

Some new mothers tend to be overprotective of their children. Is that the case with you?

I don’t know if I would call myself an overprotective mother but I don’t just let anyone touch my baby. If I don’t know you or I’m not comfortable with you touching my baby, I would not let you touch her. There was a day I was out with her and someone walking past commented that my baby was beautiful and proceeded to touch her. I had to shut that down. I am very protective of my baby because I know what I went through to have her.

How do you want to raise your child?

I want to raise her to be an independent lady. I want to raise her to be a God-fearing lady. I don’t want her to depend on people too much. She has to be able to do things for herself. Just because she is a girl does not mean that she can’t do certain things. My mother has six girls. I did not have a brother, so we learnt to do things that are traditionally done by men. When I was growing up, I knew how to use an axe to break firewood. I also know how to pound yam so my child should be able to do everything. I want to raise her to have time for God and for books.

How is your husband coping as a first-time father?

He is coping very well. He is adapting to it.

How many hours of sleep do you get at night?

It varies. At the early stage, I was not getting a lot because babies do not tend to sleep through the night. There were times when I was sleeping at two-hour interval. There have also been times when she slept all through the night so, it definitely changes.

What is your experience of breastfeeding?

It’s been fun and exciting. I get a chance to bond with my baby and it’s a good feeling. I know I will miss it after it’s over. I will definitely miss the connection.

What has changed about your daily schedule?

The time I wake up has changed. I don’t do make-up when I’m going to work anymore because I have to prepare food for her and do a lot of things so, I don’t have time anymore. These days, I only do make-up during the weekends or when I have the opportunity to do so. My eating habits have also changed and I tend to leave work a little earlier now. Right now, I do not have a social life.

What lessons has motherhood taught you?

Motherhood has taught me to be very patient. It has taught me to put someone else first and take everything into consideration before making a decision. It has taught me how to love. I have always loved kids but now, anytime I see them, I think of what mothers went through to have them. It has taught me to be more organised.

What advice would you give to expectant mothers and new mothers?

For expectant mothers, I advise them to be very prayerful and also read books. There was a book I started reading the moment I got married and everybody was making fun of me but it actually helped. They should try and read books that would help them understand the changes that are going on in their bodies. It would help in knowing what to expect. For new mothers, I would advise them to enjoy the experience. They shouldn’t just take any advice because some things might actually harm the baby. They should study their babies and see what would work for them because every child is different.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]