I learnt deep romance skills at antenatal classes – Osisiogu
An entrepreneur, Mrs. Chichi Osisiogu, shares her motherhood journey with TOPE OMOGBOLGUN

What is your baby’s name?

My baby’s name is Nathaniel ‘Kamsi’ Osisiogu. Those are the ones we call him, although other names were given to him by my parents-in-law, my parents and other members of family.

Is he your first child?

Yes, he is my first. I gave birth to him exactly 10 months after I got married.

What did he weigh at birth?

He weighed about 2.95kg at birth.

When did you give birth to him?

I put to bed at about 2pm on March 25. It was such a moment of joy and fulfillment for me.

What was your first reaction when you found out you were pregnant?

It was somewhat of mixed feelings; I was excited having just been married four weeks before I got pregnant and a bit circumspect because I realised that a totally new phase of life had come – pregnancy and then motherhood. But in all, it was such a beautiful moment for me. I thought motherhood would disturb me from having time alone with my husband. But the truth is, it has made it better; I am really savouring the joys of motherhood.

What was your most unusual craving during pregnancy?

Nothing weird per se, I remember making incessant orders for gbegiri (marched beans soup) and semovita. My husband knew that was my craving, so he always endeavoured to go to a local restaurant anywhere around to buy it for me. This is because we are both Igbo and none of us could make the soup which is a popular delicacy among the Yoruba.

What was the hardest part of your pregnancy?

The hardest part then was the incessant spitting and vomiting immediately after eating and also having to do all the house chores with the change I experienced in my body.

Another funny thing was that my husband and I fell ill often and we both had to treat malaria quite a number of times. Until we were advised to sleep under insecticide-treated mosquito net, we never realised how important and effective it could be. Having to manage with all of these situations was about the most difficult part I could recall.

Did you go attend antenatal classes?

Yes, of course I did and we took it very seriously. First, I had to register at the Asokoro District Hospital though I was referred to Maitama District Hospital for delivery. I also used a private hospital close to my home. As a first-timer, we were then categorised as doctor’s patients, and had to meet a doctor on our appointment dates that was at least once in a month.

However, the highly experienced nurses took time to enlighten me and other pregnant women on salient aspects of our pregnancies and delivery preparations. I must confess that it really helped us. It was also fun for me; I learnt some songs, exercises and some deep romance skills during pregnancy.

How did the classes go?

It equipped me for the D-day. I grew in confidence as I inched closer to the delivery day. I knew better and became better ready. Its effect was quite positive since I had an idea of the whole thing. For example, I already had an idea of labour pains, I just didn’t know to what extent.

What were you doing when you went into labour?

Labour didn’t come as expected on my estimated date of delivery. The doctors had to induce me as the normal medical practice when it was taking too long. I was induced in the evening on March 24 and I only began to experience contraction about 13 hours later at about 8am the next morning. Labour pains were excruciating and lasted till 2pm in the afternoon when I was eventually delivered of my baby.

I didn’t experience the logistics of trying to get to the hospital as having been induced; I was already in the ward almost two days before labour. However, we had put together all delivery items in a bag as advised, and my husband shelved all his engagements to be with me at home for two weeks before and after my EDD. So, the whole suspense was there.

Was it better or worse than you anticipated?

I can’t really say. I have heard various stories of labour but I would say none is exactly the same. It can either be assuaged or aggravated by a combination of factors such as medical care and others.

Which of your trimester did you enjoy the most?

My first trimester was about the most enjoyable as I was pampered by family members and other caregivers. My husband deputised for me in domestic chores, and ensured I had all the comfort. All through, my hubby treated me like a baby.

How did you handle labour?

Sincerely I was scared, I would always go online and watch how women go into labour. Initially, I thought it wasn’t all that painful and silently felt it was hyped by mothers. But my firsthand experience taught me better.

What advice did your mum give you during pregnancy?

She told me to be strong and prayerful, take my antenatal drugs and visit the doctor if I have any strange feeling. She also counselled that I should talk to the baby, engage in regular exercises and be careful.

What is your advice to aspiring mothers about pregnancy?

Anticipated pregnancy is a dream come true and requires more care than any other point in a woman’s life. Pregnancy may come with some unusual inconvenience which are normal but must not be regarded as being sick.

Basically, my advice is for all hopeful mothers, their husbands and other caregivers to ensure optimal ante natal care both medically, emotionally and domestically. Yes, we must consult experts to do their jobs, but at home we must ensure we engage actively in home chores, regular walks and exercise because they help. Remain sexually active especially after the first trimester. Finally, seek and heed medical counsel from accredited professionals. I assure you, motherhood is beautiful and I’m sure you can’t wait to experience it.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]