Kogi election: Court asked to disqualify PDP gov candidate, Wada
Ade Adesomoju, Abuja

A lawyer from Kabba/Bunu Local Government Area of Kogi State, Femi Joseph, has asked the Federal High Court in Abuja to disqualify the Peoples Democratic Party’s governorship candidate in Kogi State, Musa Wada, from participating in the Saturday’s governorship election in the state.

The plaintiff, who filed the suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/1147/2019, alleged that Wada submitted false information about his primary school certificate to the Independent National Electoral Commission as the PDP’s candidate for the poll.

He alleged that the certificate, which Wada claimed to have obtained in 1973 in the old Kwara State, was either a fake or forged.

Highlighting the alleged particulars of the alleged forgery, the plaintiff said the serial number on the certificate “is too far from the several other” certificates of primary education issued by the old Kwara State in that same year.”

READ ALSO: Gov election: El-Rufai kneels before Kogi people, says, ‘please forgive Yahaya Bello’

He added that the “approximate date of birth for all authentic certificates issued in 1973 and about the time, only had a year of birth and not the date and month as the third defendant’s (Wada’s) purported certificate of primary education.”

He also said, among others, that Wada’s signature in 1975 as contained in the “purported certificate “is the same as that of today as evidenced by his signature on the Form CF001.”

His lawyer, Mike Ebah, urged the court to, based on, the provision of section 31(5) & (6) of the Electoral Act, 2010, hold that the information was false.

Sued as defendants in the suit are the PDP, INEC and Wada.

The plaintiff sought among other prayers, “a declaration that the 3rd defendant’s INEC FORM CF001 and the Primary School Certificate, bearing Number: 910922, attached therewith and submitted to the 2nd defendant (INEC) by the 1st and 3rd defendants (PDP and Wada), contain false information regarding the 3rd defendant’s Primary School Certificate”.

He also sought “an order disqualifying the 3rd defendant from contesting the Kogi State governorship election slated November 16, 2019, for submitting to the 2nd defendant in his INEC FORM CF001 and the documents attached therewith, false information concerning his Primary School Certificate.”