APC state chairmen want Akpabio sacked
Femi Atoyebi and Matthew Ochei

All Progressives Congress state chairmen have called on President Muhammadu Buhari to sack the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Chief Godswill Akpabio, over his alleged overbearing behaviour.

In a statement by their Chairman, Ali Dolari, and Secretary, Ben Nwoye, after their meeting in Asaba, said the chairmen questioned Akpabio’s alleged interference in the affairs of the Niger Delta Development Commission.

The statement read in part, “He (minister) has vested interest to annex the Niger Delta Development Commission as a unit of the Niger Delta Ministry where he is the minister.

“We query the rationale behind Akpabio’s hastened moves to impose an illegal Interim Management Committee in breach of the NDDC Act, particularly his naming of one Dr Cairo Ojougboh, a medical doctor, as the acting Executive Director, Projects, whereas the NDDC establishment Act makes it mandatory for the occupant of that office to be a certified engineer with the requisite engineering certificates and membership of statutory regulatory bodies.

“What does Akpabio intend to achieve by hurriedly appointing Dr Joy Nunieh, who incidentally is the Rivers State Representative, as acting Managing Director of his unconstitutional interim management committee whereas, he is aware of President Muhammadu Buhari’s appointment of a substantive board currently undergoing screening at the Senate?

Meanwhile, Akpabio, has lamented that Niger Delta region has no infrastructural development to show for all the financial commitment to the area.

He said 71 contractors had returned to site after the move to probe the activities of the Niger Delta Development Commission.

READ ALSO: Alfa arraigned for fighting cop over traffic rule

The Head, Media and Public Relations in the ministry, Patricia Deworitshe, said in a statement on Friday that the minister made the assertion when he received in audience the South-South Presidential Support Committee led by former member of the House of Representatives, Doris Oboh, in Abuja.

The statement said Akpabio also called on the South-South PSC to build the love of friendship and love for one another so that they could work together to develop the region.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]