Kogi: Police arrest Wada’s campaign official for alleged arms possession
Friday Olokor and Gbenga Odogun

Operatives from the Abuja Police Command have arrested the Chairman of Security Committee of the Musa/Aro Campaign Organisation, ACP Suleiman Abutu (retd.), for alleged illegal possession of firearms.

Abutu was reportedly arrested alongside six others in Dekina Local Government Area of Kogi State on Saturday.

The state Commissioner for Police, Hakeem Busari, confirmed Abutu and others’ arrest but gave no further details.

“I don’t have further details since it was not our men from the state command who arrested them (Abutu and others) but officers from Abuja came for them,” he said.

A statement from the Chairman, Media Committee of the GYB/CEDO Campaign Organisation, Mr Kingsley Fanwo, on Saturday alleged that the arms seized by the police from the campaign officer of the PDP governorship candidate, Mr Idris Wada, were to unleash terror on voters during the November 16 election.

The police reportedly recovered pump-action guns, AK-47 rifles and pistols from the detainees.

“ACP Suleiman Abutu (retd.) and the other six suspects have so far made useful confessional statements to the police,” Fanwo alleged.

Meanwhile, the Independent National Electoral Commission has deployed 23 Community Based Organisations to embark on door-door voter education in Kogi State.

The figure is made up of 21 CBOs, one for each local government area and a coordinator in each of the three senatorial districts in the state.

READ ALSO: PDP backs INEC over Bayelsa, Kogi gov elections

INEC also said it had concluded the training of Presiding Officers and Assistant Presiding Officers for the exercise.

The Head of Department, Voter Education and Publicity in Kogi State, Ahmed Biambo, said this in an interview with one of our correspondents.

He said, “Our preparation for the November 16 governorship election is in top gear. So far, the training of Presiding Officers and Assistant Presiding Officers have been concluded.

“Voter education at the grassroots with Community-Based Organisations and the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security is ongoing at the local government level.

“Door-to-door voter education is being carried out and we have given the CBOs voter education materials.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]