How I sacrificed my postgraduate degree for politics – Tambuwal
Adeniyi Olugbemi

Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State has revealed the lure of politics was the reason he abandoned his master’s degree programme in law.

However, Tambuwal said at an Association of Registrars of Nigeria Universities gathering in Sokoto that he had no regrets becoming a politician.

The governor, who won his first term on the platform of the All Progressives Congress defected to the Peoples Democratic Party for his second term.

He obtained a bachelor’s degree in law from Usman Dan Fodio University, Sokoto.

The former Speaker of the House of Representatives said, “I was studying for my master’s degree in law during the 2002/2003 session at University of Abuja but the lure of political participation was a serious distraction that I hardly concentrated on my studies.

“When it was becoming glaring that I might not be able to cope, I was offered a suggestion that I could hire people to take my examinations and write my thesis for me.

“But I said I would rather leave honourably than obtain a degree in a fraudulent manner.

“That is how I left with my honour and integrity and I never regret venturing into politics. Maybe, when Sokoto State University starts a master’s degree (programme) in law, I may come and complete my higher degree in law here.”

READ ALSO: I test my brain to be sure it’s still fine — Atueyi, 80-year-old pharmacist

Acting Chairman of the Economics and Financial Crime Commission, Ibrahim Magu, represented by Dr Bello Gusau, urged the university administrators to maintain the integrity of the nation’s education system.

He said, “The EFCC will support all genuine efforts towards ensuring the prevention of economic and financial crimes, we shall not relent in prosecuting public officers that loot the treasury.

“This is because corruption inhibits socio-economic development and has threatened our corporate existence as a nation.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]