Bayelsa IPAC boss, two others suspended indefinitely
Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa

The general council of the Inter-Party Advisory Council in Bayelsa State has slammed an indefinite suspension on “three erring members” of the State Executive Council of the IPAC for allegedly “violating the provisions of the code.”

Those affected are the IPAC chairman, Mr. Eneyi Zidongha; Secretary, Mr. Henry Kpodoh and the Vice Chairman, Ibubeleye Etunghe.

Briefing newsmen on their suspension at the NUJ Press Centre, Yenagoa, on Saturday, Mr. Willy Ifidi of the ABP, who read the group’s statement, said the decision to remove the three officials from office was taken as part of the responsibility of member-chairmen of IPAC in council.

READ ALSO: Buhari departs Makkah for UK private visit

Ifidi, who was flanked by Mr. James Inegite (APN); Mr. Kalas Agai (NDLP); Mr. Samuel Adaga (UPN) and Chief Obi MacWilson (AGA), who is also the IPAC’s Organising Secretary, explained that member-chairmen had a responsibility to promote and protect the provisions of the Code of Conduct at all times.

He said the general council resolved that MacWilson “shall immediately assume the position of acting chairman of IPAC, Bayelsa State, and see to the day-to-day running of affairs of IPAC.”

According to him, the suspended officials received political appointments as special advisers to the Bayelsa State Governor while still in office as elected officers of the IPAC and refused to report themselves to the body as required by the Code of Conduct.

He said that Zidongha also refused to convene a general meeting to address the several incidences of infractions against the IPAC’s Revised Code of Conduct, 2019, despite pleas.

Ifidi also said that Zidongha used IPAC’s name and letterhead to endorse the PDP candidate on 12 August, 2019 and declared the Local Government council election as free, fair and credible even when it was marred by irregularities, thereby undermining the interest of other party chairmen who participated in the election.

He also said that Zidongha, who is the state chairman of GPN, commended the Bayelsa State Independent Electoral Commission and the state government “for a job well done.”

Ifidi said Zidongha also wrote letters to the Independent National Electoral Commission without due consultation of the council’s state general assembly and made representations inimical to the council’s development.

He further stated that Zidongha; Kpodoh and Etunghe were “now political appointees as special adviser and senior special assistants in the PDP-led state government while still maintaining their various positions in IPAC, Bayelsa State.”

Ifidi said, “That contrary to the code, Zidongha is now occupying multiple appointments and assignments as an IPAC chairman; a governorship aspirant in the Bayelsa State 2019 election; a senior special assistant in the PDP-led government and also applying to contest for chairmanship position in the coming IPAC election.”

He said the trio by their conduct reportedly breached sections 7; 4.3 (d); 5 (ii) and (iii) and 8 of the IPAC Code of Conduct.

They warned Zidongha; Kpodoh and Etunghe to stop parading themselves as elected representatives of the council in the state and anywhere within the country.

They also called on relevant authorities, agencies of government and members of the public not to have any dealings with them anymore otherwise they would do so at their own risks.

But Zidongha, who reacted to their indefinite suspension described it as baseless, insisting that “all my exco members are with me.”

He said, “They don’t have the power to do so. Only the national body, by the Code of Conduct, can suspend me.”