Alaibe, Suleiman, Melaye join Nov governorship race
Success Nwogu, Abuja

A former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Timi Alaibe; the senator representing Kogi West, Dino Melaye, and Abubakar Suleiman, have joined the November governorship race on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party.

While Alaibe is aspiring to be the PDP candidate for Bayelsa State, Suleiman and Melaye are aspiring for the party’s ticket in Kogi State.

The trio spoke to journalists after collecting their nomination and expression of interest forms on Thursday in Abuja.

Alaibe promised to bring to bear his experience in the private and public sectors in implementing policies that would ensure improvement of sustainable and even development of Bayelsa State.

He stated that he would ensure employment generation and improvement in the welfare of the people as well as improve tourism in the state.

He said, “As a PDP state, we want to retain Bayelsa State. As such, we are going to, as the governor, consolidate the good and great work that our governor, Seriake Dickson, has done so far in Bayelsa State. We are going to consolidate his achievements, especially his work in areas of critical infrastructure in the education sector, health and other critical infrastructural projects.

“For us, as a vision, we will espouse our belief of using government as a social investment platform in the implementation of social infrastructural projects in security, health and environment. But more importantly, we will espouse our interest in using government as an enabler for the maintenance of a peaceful and conducive environment to attract private sector capital, experience and strategy in implementing accelerated economic development. We will utilise that in also implementing environmental projects to redeem ecological degradation in the Niger Delta.”

READ ALSO: Ekiti PDP, govt disagree over killing of hunter

Abubakar said Kogi State was in dire need for good leadership, adding that all the sectors in the state had deteriorated in the last three and half years.

According to him, government employees in the state virtually are like beggars while insecurity and infrastructure in the state have also deteriorated.

He said, “It is a well-known fact that today in Nigeria, the Kogi State civil servants have been turned to beggars, simply because their hard earned money does not go to them.

“The story about insecurity is unfortunate; if you are passing through the state you will be afraid of kidnappers or bandits. Similarly, for those who are residing in the state sleep with their eyes open.

“I have priority policy document that I have worked on, which include: social infrastructure, fundamentals of government, physical responsibility and economic development. These policies are intertwined. For example, economic development include job creation, empowerment is related to physical infrastructure while social infrastructure is about health, schools, roads; all these, I will put into serious consideration.”

Melaye said there was high unemployment rate, insecurity and poverty in the state, stating that he would harness the abundant human and mineral resources to eliminate these challenges.

He also promised to transform the state by improving the quality of life and standard of living of the residents of the state.

He also said women empowerment, skill development, educational and health care improvement as well as tourism development would be among his agenda for the state.

“There is the dire need to recover our state which has been completely battered, shattered and destroyed. Today, the magnitude and intensity of killings in Kogi State surpasses any other time in the history of our state. The insecurity in the state we have never experienced such. Unemployment is on the high side, retrenchment, sacking and non-payment of salaries and pensions are now a tradition in Kogi State. The economy and the economic activities in Kogi State have completely depleted.

“We will go into the issues of the economy of the state. We will revive all the ministries, departments and agencies in the state. We will look at tapping the over 200 mineral resources in Kogi. We will look at the environment, agriculture, we will tap into mining. We will look at education that is the bedrock of our people that has completely collapsed.

“Our children have spent more time at home than in school in the last four years. Our workers, elders, and pensioners are dying for not being able to pay for their daily drugs. Many are hypertensive and diabetic but they cannot service these ailments because government has refused to pay salaries and pensions. The situation in Kogi State is outrageously calamitous. It is begging for immediate palliation and amelioration and I am here to fix Kogi State.

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Barcelona dressing room wants Neymar back – Suarez

“What we have is ‘greedocracy’: government of the greedy by the greedy and for the greedy. But by the grace of God, we will graduate back to democracy. What we have today is feudocracy: government of the few, by the few and for the few. But we are coming to make sure that government belongs to the people.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]