PDP, CUPP challenge Buhari on alleged fuel subsidy fraud
Success Nwogu, Abuja

The Peoples Democratic Party has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to revalidate his position that fuel subsidy is a fraud.

The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan in an interview with our correspondent on Wednesday said Buhari had said before his election in 2015 that fuel subsidy was a fraud.

He stated that the amount of money the Federal Government claimed to be spending on fuel subsidy was very high, adding that nobody or party should support a fraud.

According to him, it was doubtful if the Federal Government was subsiding fuel cost, adding that Buhari’s government could be playing politics on Nigerians.

Ologbondiyan said, “What did President Buhari say before he became president in 2015? He said fuel subsidy was a fraud, that nobody was subsidising anything. So what is the difference now? If you look at the astronomical level at which the subsidy has increased, all we just need to do is to ask him to revalidate his statement about fuel subsidy. He should revalidate what he said in 2015 about fuel subsidy today.

“Are they subsidising fuel? Is it not politics of fraud? Did President Buhari not call fuel subsidy a fraud before he was elected President? Since after that, has he declared that it was not a fraud? Has he recanted? So we are holding him to what he said before 2015 that fuel subsidy was a fraud. It is a fraud. He said it was a fraud in 2015 and he has not recanted. So if he said it was a fraud in 2015 and he has not recanted, it is still a fraud today.

“We are asking him to revalidate his statement that fuel subsidy is a fraud.”

Meanwhile, the Coalition of United Political Parties on Sunday called on the Federal Government to commence gradual withdrawal of fuel subsidy.

CUPP spokesman, Mr. Imo Ugochinyere in an interview with our correspondent said current realities had made it imperative for fuel subsidy to be reviewed.

READ ALSO: Police begin manhunt for Bayelsa cops’ killers

He alleged that there was lack of transparency in the management of fuel subsidy, adding that Federal Government was allegedly subsiding inefficiency.

Ugochinyere said, “It has become imperative and important that we cannot continue to subsidise waste and stealing. We have stories of how people bring in big tanks that are carrying water and get them verified and are paid. We hear how people bring in fuel and take it out of the country and they get credited into another offshore account. So there is a lack of transparency in the process and the citizens are losing billions every day and you are subsiding inefficiency!

“We are of the view that government should start a gradual withdrawal of subsidy that will see us coming out of this problem. There is no need to be subsiding at the level they are doing.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]