APGA asks EFCC to probe Yari over N35bn relief materials
Friday Olokor, Abuja

The All Progressive Grand Alliance candidate for the March 9 governorship poll in Zamfara State, Sani Shinkafi, has told the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to probe the immediate past governor of the state, Abdulaziz Yari.

He also told the EFCC to invite the immediate past Secretary to the State Government, Prof Abdulahi Shinkafi, to explain his claim that the state government under Yari used N35bn to purchase vehicles for the security agencies and relief materials for internally displaced persons.

Shinkafi said, “It is on record that in the 14 local government areas of Zamfara State attacked by bandits there was no single IDP camp established by the state government not to talk of purchasing relief materials for the IDPs.”

Yari was said to have claimed, through his media aide, Ibrahim Dosara, that his administration left behind N7bn for the Bello Matawalle government.

Shinkafi made the call on Wednesday in a petition dated July 1, 2019, which he sent to acting Chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu.

He said, “We demand the commission invite the former SSG to substantiate the claim that the state government spent N35bn on the purchase of relief materials.

“This investigation has become expedient following the claims by former Governor Abdulaziz Yari that his administration left no debts or liabilities for the new administration under Bello Matawalle.

“We therefore demand the commission investigate all the contract documents, account books, cash books, bank statements, loans and advances, local and international loans, incomes and expenditure.”

Shinkafi, who accused Yari administration of the leaving the state in huge debts, also claimed the administration diverted public funds.

He called on the EFCC to investigate the money received from the Federal Allocation Accounts Committee, Universal Basic Education Commission, Sustainable Development Goals, Federal Feeding Funds and Value Added Tax.

The APGA chief also called on the anti-corruption agency to probe the money the Yari administration received from the Ecological and Stabilisation Fund, two tranches of the Paris Club refund, Tertiary Education Trust Fund and the excess crude oil fund.

READ ALSO: PDP, CUPP challenge Buhari on alleged fuel subsidy fraud

According to him, the contracts awarded in the past eight years and the Anchor Borrowers Loan Scheme should be probed.

The petitioner said the Yari administration left liabilities from ongoing projects to the tune of N151,190,477,572.02.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]