Ondo Rep, Gboluga, appoints 60 aides
Leke Baiyewu, Abuja

Member, House of Representatives representing Okitipupa/Irele Federal Constituency, Mr. Ikengboju Gboluga, has appointed 60 political and legislative aides.

The appointments include chief of staff, senior legislative aide, legislative aides, personal assistant, secretary, senior special advisers and special advisers.

They are to resume on November 1 (today).

Gboluga made the announcement in a statement by his media consultant, Israel Fagbemigun, in Abuja on Friday.

The statement said the appointees were his supporters who would “work with him in service to his constituents.”

It quoted Gboluga as saying that his decision to appoint the “unprecedented high number of aides” was in recognition of their contributions during the elections and to give them a sense of belonging and “financial appreciation.”

READ ALSO: Bullion vans: Magu shuns question on Tinubu petition

The lawmaker added that the appointments were in recognition of the efforts by those selected, after wide consultations among major stakeholders.

According to Gboluga, many others who did not make the list will be “equally appreciated and rewarded in the upcoming empowerment programmes,” with the one to be held on Monday to cover 600 others.

The appointees, according to the statement are Chief of Staff, Niyi Akinnola; Special Adviser (Special Duties) Daso Feyiropo; Olumide Ogunje (SLA); Olajide Akinnusi (LA1); Adeyemo Akinde (LA2); Olaide Adekanle (PA) and Alfa Augustina (Secretary).

Other SAs are Akin Emorioye, Oriola Akinrinwa, Tayo Ogungbemi, Omololu Akinbo, Dami Olowodugba, Gbenga Adeyehun, Olapade Omowole, Kunle Balogun, John Belie, Motunbi Juwa, Abiodun Temenu, Kunle Oloyebade, Adeolu Akinseye, Yetunde Awodumila and Dami Martins.

The SSAs are Oladipupo Akinye, Niyi Adebusoye, Tayo Fatoyinbo, Sola Omojugba, and Temitope Kolawole.

The PAs are Tunji Akindayini, Oladipupo Fayefunmi, Albert Oluwambe, Olagundoye Gbenga, Adura Egbuwalo, Ebun Rotimi, Damilola Egbodofo, Chief Owate, Adewale Emoruwa, Olagundoye Moses, Felix Ojomo, Robert Oyeneyin, Abiodun Lijoka, Ezekiel Olowatobi, Akintuyi Ashogbon, Taiwo Lijoka, Omolafe Osowe, Dayo Akindehin and Bobola Job.

Other PAs are Bosede Ayedamilowo, Folorunsho Owolala, Abiodun Akindemowo, Tunde Arowosomo, Shola Arobadi, Sunday Itiolu, Abiodun Akinsulere, Gbenga Faniyi, Olalekan Folorunso, Daisi Emoruwa, Mrs Akinjigan, Idowu Ogunwumiju, Segun Fadayomi, Akin Kokoluko, Orimisan Obolo.

“The appointments take effect from the 1st November,” the statement said.