APC suspends lawmaker for alleged absence at Edo Assembly sittings
The Okada East Ward of the All Progressives Congress, Ovia North East Local Government Area, has suspended the member elected to represent the ward in the Edo State House of Assembly, Mr. Vincent Uwadiae.

He was suspended over alleged “disregard for the party’s directives,” a statement sent by SA (Media) Edo State Government, Crusoe Osagie, has said.

The Ward also urged the Independent National Electoral Commission to commence the process of recalling Mr. Vincent Uwadiae as the elected member representing Ovia North East Constituency 2 in Edo State Assembly, “in accordance with the 1999 Nigeria Constitution as amended.”

“The suspension of Uwadiae was contained in a resolution by executive members of the APC in Okada East Ward and signed by the chairman, APC, Ovia North East Local Government Area, Amb. Etinosa Ighodaro,” the release added.

The APC said Uwadiae’s suspension was as a result of his continued absence from the assembly, noting, “This resolution condemns the continued absence of Mr. Vincent Uwadiae, elected on the platform of our party, the APC, to represent Ovia North East Constituency 2 in Edo State House of Assembly.

“Members of the APC in Okada East Ward have been denied representation at the assembly, contrary to the provision of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, which makes it mandatory for each constituency to have representatives in the State House of Assembly for ease of development.

“Mr. Vincent Uwadiae, along with other APC members were elected on February 23, 2019. He has been absent for several months and failed to represent us for the purpose that he was elected.

“The continued absence of Mr. Vincent Uwadiae at the State Assembly, according to the party, is responsible for setbacks suffered by the people in all the seven wards from Ovia North East Constituency II.

“The APC in Okada East Ward, Ovia North East LGA decried the continued absence of Mr. Vincent Uwadiae from the State Assembly and condemned his refusal to attend a meeting fixed for October 15, 2019, which was convened to appeal and direct him to resume sitting.

“His refusal is an expression of intolerance that is contradictory to the values that define the people of Ovia North East LGA and Okada East in particular,” the statement added.