Kogi election: Bello, Onoja canvass support for Adeyemi
Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja

The Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, and his deputy, Edward Onoja, have urged the people of Kogi West to let their support for the All Progressives Congress translate into voting massively for the party and Senator Smart Adeyemi on November 16.

Adeyemi, who is also the Director-General, Bello/Onoja Campaign Organisation, would stand as a candidate in the court-ordered Kogi-West Senatorial rerun.

He will be contesting against the Peoples Democratic Party’s candidate, Senator Dino Melaye.

Speaking at the Kogi-West rally in Kabba, Bello told the crowd not to throw away their votes, adding that only Adeyemi could properly represent them in the Senate.

“Don’t vote for a selfish person who does not have your interest at heart. If you love me and will cast your vote for me, do the same for Adeyemi,” he said.

The governor vowed to reverse the downward trend in development of the state in his second term, if given the chance.

He insisted that with the commencement of prompt payment of salary arrears, his government had also commenced the repositioning of the state for the better.

“My government is better prepared to reverse the downward developmental forced on us by the previous administration,” he added.

According to Bello, in his second term, the state will witness ease, happiness, joy and prosperity.

Earlier, Adeyemi said the senatorial division was ready to reward the governor with their votes for his “love for the zone.”

He said, “All what we want to do in this zone is just to thank you for your love for us and for the numerous political appointments.”

The senatorial candidate said he would restore the “battered image” of the district created by “rascals of the past.”

He called on the electorate to seize the opportunity to discard misfits and people of questionable background on November 16.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]