Nigerians must shun unwholesome practices, says Osinbajo
Success Nwogu, Abuja

Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo on Tuesday urged Nigerians, especially public officials, to shun what he described as unwholesome and corrupt practices.

Osinbajo, who was represented by the Special Adviser to the President on Social Investments, Mrs Maryam Uwais, spoke during the maiden edition of the International Ombud Expo held in Abuja.

“We need good governance in Nigeria. We need to depart from practices that are unwholesome, corrupt practices, and practices that have public officials harassing, intimidating or extorting individuals, whether male or female,” he said.

The vice-president said the Federal Government placed high premium on good governance anchored on the building of strong institutions.

He added, “Besides the Public Complaints Commission, the Federal Government has put in place other subject specific agencies such as the National Human Rights Commission, the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, the Code of Conduct Bureau and the Code of Conduct Tribunal, to broaden the intensity of oversight with a view to delivering good governance to both citizens and non-citizens resident within jurisdiction.

“While all these aforementioned agencies carry out oversight on governance externally, another agency, Service Compact with All Nigerians, was again established in 2004 to ensure due diligence compliance from within.

“This agency serves the purpose of internal service quality audit against public assessment and concerns. It is expected that the collaborative operations of these agencies, together with the Ombudsman, will deliver good governance to the people.”

The Chief Public Complaints Commissioner, Mr Chille Igbawua, said corruption and bad governance were worrisome to the commission.

The Minister of Federal Capital Territory, Muhammad Bello, represented by an FCT official, Mr Yusuf Mudi, said the theme of the expo was in tandem with the quest of the present administration for better service delivery at all levels.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]