Appeal Court affirms Moro’s victory
John Charles Makurdi

The Court of Appeal, Makurdi Division, on Tuesday, upheld the judgment of the National/State Election Petitions Tribunal, affirming the election of Abba Moro as the winner of Benue South senatorial election.

Presiding justice of the court, Justice Jumai Sankey, who delivered the lead judgment, dismissed the appeal of the senatorial candidate for the All Progressives Congress, Steven Lawani, for being an academic exercise.

Consequently, the court awarded N200, 000 against the appellants.

In another development, the Court of Appeal has reserved judgment in the appeal filed by Senator George Akume of the APC against the decision of a National/State Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal Makurdi, which upheld the return of Emmanuel Jev of the PDP as Benue North West senator.

…upholds Ekweremadu, Uba’s elections

Sunday Aborisade and Raphael Ede

The Court of Appeal, Enugu Division, has upheld the election of Ike Ekweremadu of the Peoples Democratic Party in the February 23, 2019 senatorial election for Enugu West district.

In a unanimous judgment delivered by the panel led by Justice I.M. Salawu, the court dismissed the appeal filed by Mrs Juliet Ibekaku-Nwagwu of the All Progressives Congress for lacking in merit.

The National and State Assembly Elections Petitions Tribunal that sat in Enugu had on September 9 upheld Ekweremadu’s election.

Not satisfied with the judgment, Ibekaku-Nwagwu, who is the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Justice Reform, approached the appellate court with allegations that bothered on non-compliance with the Electoral Act.

But upholding the decision of tribunal, the Appeal Court held that the appeal anchored on the refusal of the tribunal to nullify the elections in the 824 polling units of the zone failed woefully.

Also, the court affirmed the election of Ifeanyi Ubah of Young Progressive Party as senator representing Anambra South.

Justice Salawu, in two separate judgments, dismissed the appeals brought by Chief Chris Uba of the PDP and Andy Uba of the APC.

The two brothers had lost their petitions at the National and State House of Assembly Elections Petitions Tribunal.

Meanwhile, the YPP said on Tuesday that Ubah’s victory had shattered the political dynasty of the Uba brothers in the area.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]