‘Bayelsa has no reason to be backward’
Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa

The All Progressives Congress governorship candidate in Bayelsa State, David Lyon, has said the social conditions of the people and their communities ought not to be as poor as it is.

Lyon insisted that the state had no reason to be backward and suffer underdevelopment, given the huge revenues the state had received from the federation account in the past eight years.

The APC candidate stated this during the APC campaign visit to Egbemo-Angalabiri, Peretorugbene and Toru-Ndoro communities in Ekeremor Local Government Area.

The campaign team also visited Isampou, Aleibiri and Ekeremor town, headquarters of the LGA, where the traditional rulers and chiefs gave the party’s campaign organisation their blessings and support.

Lyon particularly noted that the people were living in penury because the Governor Seriake Dickson-led administration had “failed to protect and invest the commonwealth of the people on profit-generating projects, thereby causing the people to live from hand to mouth.”

He observed that the level of development in the communities did not reflect the true nature of the contributions they had put into the wealth and growth of Nigeria as oil-producing areas.

The APC candidate promised that if elected his administration would “protect the crude oil wealth of the state from the activities of pipeline vandals and crude oil thieves,” stressing that their criminal activities had exposed the state to severe environmental degradation.

Lyon also promised to ensure that all local communities were captured in the Global Memorandum of Understanding of multinational oil corporations operating in the area.

The governorship candidate further called for stronger collaboration between government, security agencies and local communities to protect and judiciously use the crude oil wealth for the growth and development of the people.

Receiving about 150 defectors from the Peoples Democratic Party at Ekeremor town, the state Chairman of APC, Jothan Amos, said the mood in the state showed that the people were fed up with the PDP-led government.

Also speaking, a former Bayelsa State Deputy Governor, Peremobowei Ebebi, who hails from the LGA, said the APC candidate had given youths of the area employment opportunities, adding that he was confident the rate of unemployment would drop significantly if Lyon was elected.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]