APC to fill vacant positions after gov polls
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja

The All Progressives Congress will take steps to fill the vacant leadership positions in the party after the governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states, our correspondent has learnt.

It was learnt that the leadership of the party made the promise at a recent meeting with the leadership of the Forum of APC State Chairmen.

The position of the National Secretary had become vacant following the swearing-in of the last occupant, Mai Mala Buni, as governor of Yobe State.

Also, the Deputy National Chairman (South), Otunba Niyi Adebayo, was recently appointed as the Minister of Industries, Trade and Investment.

The National Auditor of the party, George Moghalu, has also been appointed as the Managing Director of the National Inland Waterways Authority.

But stating why there was delay in filling the vacant positions by the party, the APC National Vice-Chairman (South-West), Bankole Oluwajana, told our correspondent that the leadership was aware of the need to fill the positions.

He said, “You don’t rush into things like that, we have to plan. We need to hold convention and you don’t plan to hold a convention when you have elections ahead of you. We have Kogi and Bayelsa states’ governorship elections, we don’t want distractions.

“The constitution is clear on the processes to take. That’s why you have people in acting capacity but I must tell you that consultations are ongoing.

“When the zones are ready they will come up with their nominations. Also there must be proper communication at all levels of the party but that is not to rule out possible lobbying of leaders of the party by those interested.

“The states will send their nominations to the zonal convention and for onward transmission to the NWC for necessary action.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]