Plateau PDP factions differ over Bayelsa, Kogi polls
James Abraham,

The Peoples Democratic Party in Plateau State led by the party’s National Vice- Chairman, North-Central, Mr Theophilus Dakas-Shan; and another faction led by the suspended state chairman, Mr Damishi Sango, on Monday differed over planned support for Bayelsa and Kogi states governorship polls.

Our correspondent gathered on Monday that Sango, who has continued to lay claim to the chairmanship of the party despite his suspension by the state executive council, had sent messages calling for a meeting of party stakeholders ahead of the two elections scheduled for November 16.

Some party members informed our correspondent that the meeting scheduled for Tuesday (Today) in Jos was aimed at mobilising members from the state to support the party’s governorship candidates in the two states.

However, the state Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr John Akans, in a statement on Monday asked party members not to attend the meeting called by Sango.

Akans, who recognised Dakas-Shan as the leader of the party in the state, maintained that Sango “remains suspended as state chairman of the party having been rejected and a vote of no confidence passed on him.”

But Sango, in his reaction, said nothing would stop the meeting from holding, adding that he was acting under the instructions of the PDP NWC who he said recognised him as the party chairman in the state.

Sango said, “I received a letter from the national secretariat of the party to organise party members in the state on how to galvanise support for our party’s governorship candidates in Bayelsa and Kogi states.

“The letter was not addressed to the state publicity secretary because he is not the party chairman.

“So, he cannot do anything to stop the meeting because I am still the state party chairman.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]