Minna-Bida Road: How did you spend $181m loan? Ex-gov Aliyu asks Niger APC
Enyioha Opara, Minna

The former Governor of Niger State, Babangida Aliyu, on Saturday asked the All Progressives Congress-led government of the state to account for $181m he (Aliyu) sought and got from Islamic Development Bank for the dualisation of the Minna-Bida road that is now in deplorable condition.

He said that the loan did not hit the state’s bank account until after he had left office.

Aliyu disclosed this in Minna at the inauguration and presentation of flags to 25 chairmanship candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party contesting in the November 30, 2019, Local Government elections in the state.

“I went to Jeddah in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to seek for an interest-free loan to dualise the Minna-Bida Road, but by the time the money came I had left office in 2015.”

The former governor wondered why the present All Progressives Congress government has not utilised the money for the purpose, it was intended which has resulted in the total collapse of the road and untold hardship on motorists.

READ ALSO: West Brom suffer late penalty pain as Leeds held in Championship

He asked the people of the state to challenge the APC government to give an account of what they had done with the loan.

Aliyu also accused the APC government of abandoning the security agencies in the state, a development which he said has brought about serious insecurity across the state.

“When I was in government I held regular security meetings with all the security agencies and traditional rulers and as well provide them with utility vehicles and boots,” he said.

“In the past, I meet regularly with security agents and provided what they need, but now I take a look at their shoes they are worn out. Government should stop lying to the security agents, they should stop promising to pay what they will not pay them.”

Aliyu went on to ask the people to vote for PDP candidates during the LG election in order for them to enjoy a better life at the grassroots.