Dickson commends Bayelsans for supporting PDP
Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa

The Governor of Bayelsa State, Mr Seriake Dickson, has commended the people of the state for supporting the Peoples Democratic Party and its candidate.

He said that the restoration government under his leadership was encouraged by the goodwill and the people’s show of appreciation for the developmental exploits of the administration by massively attending all the rallies of the PDP.

Dickson, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Fidelis Soriwei, on Sunday, said he would personally lead the mop-up rallies for the governorship campaigns with effect from this week.

He said it was a deliberate decision of the leadership of the PDP to create the campaign opportunities for the candidate and his running mate to have close and effective interactions with the electorate and to feel their pulse.

The governor also thanked all the former aspirants and leaders of the party working “assiduously” towards the victory of the party and the candidate.

He said that the large turnout at the various campaign rallies showed that the few defections would not affect the political fortunes of the PDP as the All Progressives Congress lacked “the message, structures and presence to win election in Bayelsa.”

Dickson alleged that the APC was sponsoring magnified reports of purported defections and disagreements in the PDP to “hoodwink Nigerians and the international community to cover up the leaked evil plot to abuse security and the Independent National Electoral Commission to perpetrate electoral fraud during the election.”

He said the APC had more problems with defections and crisis, adding that no serious leader of the party was supporting or attending the rallies of its candidate.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]