I knew my opponent few days to election –Wike
Chukwudi Akasike

Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike has said he never knew the candidate of the African Action Congress for the governorship poll in the state, Biokpomabo Awara, until a few days to the 2019 elections.

Wike also said he never doubted that the Supreme Court would confirm his re-election since Awara couldn’t have won an election he (Awara) didn’t contest.

The governor said from the beginning, the AAC candidate never posed a threat to him because he was unknown to the Rivers people.

Wike, who spoke in Port Harcourt on Saturday, said he only got to know of Awara about two days to the election.

He said, “I expected the confirmation because the law is clear. The man who challenged us never contested any election; so he couldn’t have won. It is so painful, but what do you do?

“It is part of life. If he really stood for election with us, one can say there could be a problem. A man that I never knew till a few days to the election; how would it have been that the man won the election? So, I expected that the court would do the right thing, which they did.”

Wike expressed confidence in the capacity of the judiciary to defend democracy, adding that although nobody expected perfection, the judiciary had continued to perform its constitutional responsibilities.

He said, “We give God all the glory that all through, He has been on our side for us to continue to do what we are supposed to do for the people of Rivers State. God has given us the opportunity to deliver more dividends of democracy according to the will of the Rivers people.”

READ ALSO: I want to be role model for my daughters – Venita Akpofure

The governor said his training as a lawyer had helped him to promote the rule of law at all times, describing the rule of law as the cornerstone of good governance.

Wike said the state had been enjoying relative peace because of the efforts of the state government and the contribution of all stakeholders.

He said, “The security agencies have been working with us. The synergy is so tight and that is why we are achieving what we achieving. It is not a one-man show.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]