Don’t compromise Kogi poll, CAN, JNI warn INEC, security agencies
Religious leaders in Kogi State have warned the Independent National Electoral Commission and security agencies not to compromise the November 16 governorship election in the state, the News Agency of Nigeria reports.

The religious leaders, who gave the warning in Lokoja on Saturday during a stakeholders’ interactive session, said the rising tension in the state was an indication that all was not well with the people, INEC and the security agencies.

The meeting was attended by representatives of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Jama’tu Nasril Islam, Council of Ulamah, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria and other stakeholders.

They insisted that the only way to avoid violence during the election was to create a level playing field for all candidates and for results to reflect the wish of the people.

The State Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Bishop John Ubenu, said the lukewarm attitude of the group to the election was due to certain things that happened during the last general elections.

He said, “Some of the things that happened during the last elections discouraged us, but as elders, we have decided to move forward.

“We all know what to do and what to say, but the problem is with the implementation.”

He said CAN deployed observers to monitor the elections but expressed shock that those trained by the commission to conduct the last general elections were replaced.

The cleric said the biggest problem facing elections in Nigeria was at the collation centres where he claimed INEC and security officials “see an election not as a national issue but pocket issue”.

He said Nigeria was ripe for electronic voting, urging the National Assembly to work towards realising it.

The State Chairman of the JNI, Usman Bello, said the success of the election depends on INEC, police and the parties.

Bello said the only way to avoid violence in the election was to ensure justice, fairness and creation of a level playing field for all parties.

He added, “If they (government) are interested in peace, they should work for peace. The election must not be compromised.

“Let us not disturb peace, if you disturb peace, what you get is your own.”

Another speaker at the event, Alhaji Zaak Aliyu, claimed attempts were being made to compromise the election, saying some politicians had been sharing money.

He suggested INEC should facilitate a meeting between religious leaders, police and parties towards ensuring a peaceful election.

Pastor Alfred Owoyemi, Chairman, state CAN youth wing, stressed the need for the commission to warn its officials not to commercialise the election.

The State Secretary, JNI, Alhaji Isa Adeboye, suggested the use of common uniform for the security officials that would be on duty on Election Day to frustrate attempts by politicians to recruit fake security officers.

The state Resident Electoral Commission, Prof James Apam, assured the people that their vote would count in the coming election.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]