State police: Politics of buck-passing in corridors of power
Just like the endless debate over restructuring, the quest for state police has suffered a similar fate in the face of rising insecurity. However, while many people in leadership positions have spoken about why it is necessary, nobody seems to be doing anything about it, writes MUDIAGA AFFE

The state of insecurity in Nigeria has become everybody’s concern as it has gone beyond economic, religious, ethnic and political divides. From the lingering insurgency in the North-East to daily cases of kidnapping, banditry, violent farmers/herders’ clashes, deadly communal clashes, cult war, and armed robbery, among others in the rest of the country, there are insinuations that the current security architecture should be reviewed for better performance.

One proposed concept that has become a cliché in the lips of policymakers and executors is the call for the creation of state police. This call has become likened to the clamour for restructuring, which has only topped most political discussions but not being brought to fruition.

Past administrations made efforts towards instituting national debates to bring about constitutional reforms, but the recommendations arising from the national discourse hardly went beyond the publication or presentation of papers.

President Muhammadu Buhari on June 3, 2019, received the recommendations of the Presidential Panel on Special Anti-Robbery Squad Reform which he had set up in August 2018. The panel, headed by the Executive Secretary of the National Human Rights Commission, Tony Ojukwu, recommended the establishment of ‘state and local government police .’

In November 2018, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo described himself as an advocate of fiscal federalism, stronger state governments, and state police.

He reportedly said, “I have been an advocate, both in court and outside, of fiscal federalism and stronger state governments. I have argued in favour of state police, for the simple reason that policing is a local function. You simply cannot effectively police Nigeria from Abuja; only recently, I made a point that stronger, more autonomous states would effectively eradicate poverty.

“So, I do not believe that geographical restructuring is an answer to Nigeria’s socio-economic circumstances. That would only result in greater administrative costs, but there can be no doubt that we need deeper fiscal federalism and good governance.”

In April, while in an acting capacity, the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, in a meeting of the Forum of Northern Traditional Rulers, called for the adoption of a potent crime management strategy modelled on the concept of community policing in which policing functions are citizen-centred and community-driven.

He said although the Nigeria Police had achieved major successes in addressing security and safety threats in recent times, especially since the launch of ‘Operation Puff Adder’, a citizen-centred and community policing approach would lead to more sustainable successes in the management of internal safety and security threats.

The IGP stated that the Community Policing Model envisaged would involve the establishment and utilisation of the Special Constables (as provided for in Sec. 50 (1) of the Police Act Cap P19 LFN 2004). But in October, months after his confirmation as IGP, Adamu declared that proponents of state police could not succeed in their agitation now or soon. According to Adamu, the issue of state police is ruled out because it will be counterproductive and the government is strengthening the concept of community policing.

In June, the South-West governors agitated for the establishment of state police as a panacea for insecurity challenges in the region and the country, and just before winding down the 8th Senate, its President, Dr Bukola Saraki, said state policing and proper funding of the Nigeria Police Force were the solutions to the banditry in some North-Western states of Nigeria.

Interestingly, the idea of state police other than the central police is not new in Nigeria. State police existed during the First Republic as Regional and Native Authority Police Forces. The officers were derived from the communities and with the advantage of shared common language and culture, crime prevention and containment at the early stages were relatively easy. Federal police officers, on the other hand, to date are posted randomly to states where the cooperation of the local populace is essential in carrying out effective policing.

The questions some pundits have been asking include: Why have those in positions of authority who have spoken in favour of state police refused to take action on it.

The National Chairman of Nigeria for Democracy, Dr Asukwo Archibong, decried the development, saying Nigeria should not continue that way.

He said, “We generally cannot continue, as a viable and successful nation, in this manner. It means we cannot continue with our present constitution without amending our laws to restructure our nation. Such an amendment must involve a restructuring of our fiscal and jurisdictional laws.

“Most people are afraid of the word restructuring and think it will lead to the breakup of the country. This cannot be further from the truth. To discuss the issue of state police and restructuring, we must first determine what is restructuring.

“Restructuring involves more than just having a state police force. Restructuring involves the devolution of power from the centre, in this case, the Federal Government of Nigeria, to other federating units of government, state governments, local governments, and cities. Such devolution of power will necessarily include the devolution of police powers to the states or local government areas.”

Archibong said the argument that state governments were not financially mature to handle fiscal federalism was not valid because the same checks and balances at the federal level also existed at the state level.

“At both levels, we have the executive branch, the House of Assembly and the judiciary acting as checks and balances for one another. Most significantly, they are all co-equal branches of government,” he added.

Similarly, President of Nigeria Voters Assembly, Mashood Erubami, said the politics of buck-passing by the government was not good for the polity.

“Government must stop buck-passing and understand the need for true restructuring and state policing; it must urgently give real sense to the systematic restructuring of the economy through revised redistribution of national revenue that will divest the Federal Government of its huge share of national revenue, earning not more than 30 per cent after being unbundled of many of the projects in which it competes with the states and local government areas.

“What we are saying about restructuring is that the government must be run on a federal basis where power devolves to federating units. Running fiscal federalism and revenue sharing are based on derivation formula.

“The issue of state police and restructuring is non-negotiable in a federal structure of government and cannot remain merely on the lips of those in the corridors of power. Concrete actions and real steps have to be taken immediately to change the tide. Nigeria cannot afford to be procrastinating if it desires to move forward and develop sustainably as a nation.

“The seeming foot-dragging about restructuring and the desirability of state police is the only resident in the barriers of mistrust between the northern and southern leaders.

“At this dangerous time in the history of the country, all deserving measures must be introduced including the implementation of the outcomes of these conferences to stem the inflammatory statements and separatist agitations being made from across Nigeria while steadfastly promoting efforts and speeches that will guarantee national unity and peaceful coexistence,” he said.

However, elder statesman and a leader of Afenifere, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, blamed the press for not condemning enough the seeming lackadaisical attitude of those at the helm of affairs in instituting constitutional reforms.

He said, “That is left for the press to tackle. They are fuelling the confusion in the country. For instance, they come out to say they do not want to restructure but they want state police. The Vice President said there could be no progress until the country was restructured. That was when I accused him that me, the father and (Chief Obafemi) Awolowo were preaching this before he was born. He has not disputed it.

“Even Femi Adesina (Special Adviser to President Buhari on Media and Publicity) who will defend all things for the government has not disputed it. I told him, you, a brilliant editor of The Sun Newspaper, who is intellectually sound; is it the evil that Reuben Abati talked about in Aso Rock that has changed you?

“Buhari will not change this constitution because it is the constitution that makes him the most powerful President in the whole world. He is powerful because the military put it there and the moment you say this thing must be changed, you lost it. It is that power that some of the state governors are afraid of losing, especially those whose hands are not clean.

“The President has the power of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, and the Code of Conduct Bureau in his hands. He came out to say that he did not set up the 2014 constitutional conference, but I asked: what is contained there, is it good for the country? What is in the constitution that is obnoxious, let us remove it and insert other things that should be there if there is no ulterior motive, hidden agenda or Islamisation (agenda).

“When we talk of state police, regional autonomy, we know what we are saying. With all the atrocities that the Fulani herdsmen committed in Southern Kaduna in 2016 when they killed about 800 people, what has happened to the Fulani herdsmen? Do you want to tell me that if the people of Southern Kaduna had their police, they wouldn’t face these people when they were coming?

“There is nothing I am saying that is strange. They know. They get collaborators from the South and give them crumbs to keep quiet.”

However, it is believed that the present administration could take urgent steps to address the challenge of constitutional reforms now that the relationship between the executive and legislative arms of government seems to be cordial.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]