Buhari, Oyetola hail Aina, ex-NABTEB boss, at 80
Friday Olokor and Bola Bamigbola

President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State on Wednesday extended warm wishes to a former Registrar/Chief Executive of the National Business and Technical Examinations Board, Prof. Olu Aina, on the occasion of his 80th birthday.

Buhari’s congratulatory message was contained in a statement by his Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina.

It read, “The President salutes the octogenarian for his trail-blazing and shining example in promoting training in vocational and technical education, which are essential to fostering sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction in the country.

“From a humble beginning as a primary and secondary school teacher in South-West Nigeria to a teaching assistant in the United States, lecturer at the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, and professor of Vocational and Technical Education, President Buhari believes that Aina has always been at the forefront of impacting excellence in technical education that helps Nigerians acquire the right skills and training needed to succeed in the labour market.

“As family, friends, former students and well-wishers gather to celebrate the former Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Igbinedion University, Okada, and former Executive Member, Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission, the President prays almighty God to grant the senior citizen more years of health, happiness and fulfilment.”

Also, Oyetola, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, said, “Eighty is no doubt a wonderful milestone in life. You are a rare Nigerian who regards service to humanity as enough gratification. Our public servants and youths have a lot to learn from your life and public service experiences as we strive to grow our democracy and governance.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]