 On the Nigeria Alternative Energy Expo 2019
Greg Odogwu

To be candid, if one were led into the venue blindfolded, the person might never be able to guess that it was a Nigerian event. The place was the popular Shehu Musa Yar’Adua Centre, Abuja; the time was midday on a friendly October afternoon. As a result of the tenacious rainy season, the atmosphere was not particularly Northern in its feel – it was as temperate as any typical after-summer ambience.

There were several green-coloured pre-fab exhibition pavilions, each of them with its personalised ensign, housing one alternative energy concern or the other. But as one turned the corner, there appeared a fresh row of school-laboratory type exhibition structures, fully manned by serious-looking young scientists. Some were fiddling with the gadgets, while others were trying to explain how they worked, to the entranced guests and journalists.

In a country where homelessness has become an inevitable harvest from the fields of unemployment and youth drug-use, it was really heartwarming to see young Nigerians showcase their genius in an international alternative energy event. It could be described as an inspiration lane. The students of Government Day Secondary School, Karu, exhibited a cutting-edge energy-efficient cookstove they made; Government Girls Secondary School, Dutse, demonstrated the fractional distillation mini-biomass refinery they fabricated; Government Secondary School, Gwarinpa worked their model concrete mixer, which was powered by an alternative energy source. And so on.

Then, as one was about to ponder on the paradox of our national reality, a solar-powered car is driven into the exhibition hall. The five-passenger keke-type minicar was designed and built by a Nigerian youth. When asked what inspired him to embark on such an audacious engineering venture, he said – without any trace of humor on his face – that he felt challenged when the Minister of Science and Technology declared, three years ago, that he had a vision of building a pencil-making factory. The young Nigerian wanted to demonstrate that his country could do better!

The Nigeria Alternative Energy Expo is the country’s largest clean energy event fully supported by the government and the green energy industry practitioners. It has been bringing together clean energy professionals, investors, installers and users for a decade now. And going by the length of time it has stayed on the scene against the backdrop of a country-wide energy crisis, one would expect that its significance would have taken a national weight by now. But, sadly, it has not.

Year in, and year out, the finest of industry players converge in Abuja to lay a fresh blueprint for the growth of the sustainable energy sector and the activation of proven innovations in our local sphere. Call it the Nigerian factor or the African demon, one thing is for sure: the NAEE has convened the best of green brains and the highest level of decision-makers, but the outcomes had failed to shift the tide for our collective energy ship. The industry is still in disarray, and the government is not showing any signs of putting the right incentives to tap from the abundant renewable energy resources as other forward-looking governments are doing.

The 2019 edition, which was a three-day event that just ended last week (from October 15 to 17), was no different. It paraded an international array of industry giants, diplomatic corps and a strong government delegation. There were about ten plenary sessions with sector-specific topics discussed by strategic stakeholders ranging from State level bureaucrats to global level development activists. Also in the mix were successful national brands like Asteven Group, who has trained more than a thousand green energy entrepreneurs in Nigeria; and Blue Camel Energy, who has successfully set up a solar panel manufacturing plant in Kaduna.

Certainly, one of the panels, chaired by the no-nonsense green scholar, Professor Joseph Dioha, X-rayed the renewable energy industry in Nigeria, and clearly showed what the roadblocks were. The session, with the working title “The critical factors that can influence the success of renewable energy power projects”, also featured other heavyweights: Senator Rose Oko of the Senate Committee on Trade and Investment; Segun Adaju of Renewable Energy Association of Nigeria; Segun Awolowo of the Nigeria Export Promotion Commission; and Hamzat Lawal of Connected Development.

For the green industry to excel, four things must be put in their right places. The first is a good and stable legislative framework. The second is a seamless permitting procedure which provides a one-stop shop for investors, so as to ensure that foreign investors are not tossed around when they visit the country to test how friendly the industry is. The third factor is access to funding for entrepreneurs, and incentives for investors and innovators. The fourth element to be in place is requisite capacity on the side of industry players and watertight standards on the part of institutional regulators.

On the first factor, it is very disheartening that our country has yet to get its Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency policy to become law. The Energy Commission of Nigeria has submitted this document more than a decade ago, but it has not become a legal fulcrum for industry practitioners. There is no doubt that this is why the industry is not coordinated, and regulators have no legal bite.

Indeed, this is essentially why the second factor cannot be put in place. Because there is no RE/EE law for the country, the government trade and investment agencies cannot see the need to create a separate investment platform for renewable energy investors. Potential green investors to Nigeria has always complained that there are no responsive environment for the green investor, as they are lumped together with other businesses, in matters of adjudications and administrative processing. In other climes, things are not done this way because the green industry is a new field, and it is being managed so that it could find its feet. Green businesses enjoy special desks and support structures.

Tax holidays are given to investors in the green sector. Rebates and incentives are the drivers that help push the renewable energy industry so that it can see the light of day. This is how the Western world became global leaders in the sector; and now the Asian countries are also taking charge. These governments made a conscious effort to push their green businessmen and women forward.

In a situation where the government does not recognize this truth, the industry dies a natural death because unscrupulous capitalists will take advantage of the situation and flood the market with fake products which makes the citizenry lose faith in renewable energy. And without the people’s buy-in, the industry is suffocated.

The Nigerian government must make a conscious effort to help the green industry get back on its feet. To me, the annual NAEE is a reflection of government’s state of mind towards the alternative energy sector. It is all motion, without any movement.

Indubitably, the NAEE has shown that Nigeria does not lack capacity and sound ideas; what the country lacks are political leaders to galvanise the citizens into achieving the visions that each of them are blessed with. It is on the NAEE platform that two critical industry bodies were formed: the Sustainable Energy Practitioners Association of Nigeria and the Renewable Energy Association of Nigeria. Today, these bodies are stakeholders in the global green industry, yet Nigeria as a government is still nowhere to be found on the comity of green nations.