Kogi election: Journalism prepared me for politics, says Adeyemi
Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja

The Director General, GYB/CEDO Campaign committee, Senator Smart Adeyemi, has said the time he spent practising journalism, rising to become a two-term Nigeria Union of Journalist’s president, had prepared him for the challenges of facing his court-ordered senatorial rerun, as well as heading the campaign committee of Governor Yahaya Bello.

Adeyemi spoke on Wednesday in Lokoja shortly after granting audience to the officials from the British Embassy, who paid him a visit and assessed the level of preparedness for the November 16 elections.

The Kogi State governorship poll is scheduled by the Independent National Electoral Commission to hold the same day.

Adeyemi reiterated his readiness for any day chosen by INEC, saying he was satisfied with the decision of INEC to conduct the elections on the same day.

Asked if he would be able to run Bello’s campaign when he would also be standing for his senatorial election, he said, “As a journalist with many years’ experience behind me and being a two-term president of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, I am well equipped to face the challenges.

“For instance, I have been coming to Lokoja every day from Abuja in the last two weeks. Do I look tired? A journalist never gets tired; I am up to the task.”

He said it was cheaper for both political parties and INEC to deploy resources towards conducting the elections on the same day.

The former lawmaker had secured a court-ordered rerun of senatorial election after losing to Senator Dino Melaye in the last general election.

Adeyemi said the people of Kogi West knew his antecedents and, as their two-term representative in the Senate, he would need no further introduction because his records would speak for him.

He, however, expressed concern about the opposition parties, especially the Peoples Democratic Party, not campaigning or engaging the APC ahead of the elections.

He said, “The silence could either mean that they are planning mayhem or that they don’t have anything to tell the people.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]