Kogi gov poll: PDP ‘silence’ worries APC
…Wants security agencies to be on alert

…Bello’s nonperformance is enough campaign for us -PDP

Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja

The All Progressives Congress has expressed concern over the ‘silence’ of the opposition parties particularly the Peoples Democratic Party ahead of the governorship election scheduled for 16th November 2019.

The Director General, Bello/Onoja campaign committee, Senator Smart Adeyemi, therefore, called on the security agencies to be vigilant and be on alert as the opposition’s ‘silence’ might mean that they are planning to unleash mayhem on the people on election day.

He said “Have you seen their campaign posters, billboards or handbills in any part of the state? They are not also engaging us in any way. They claim to be doing house-to-house campaigns, but we are also going from house to house, we have not met them anywhere.

“This is pregnant with lots of meanings and we want the security agencies to be vigilant to prevent innocent citizens from being harmed,” he told our correspondent on phone on Thursday in Lokoja.

Adeyemi, however, expressed satisfaction with the level of acceptance of Bello which he attributed to the array of people-oriented programmes outlined in his manifestos.

READ ALSO: End border closure in national interest, Falana advises FG

He said that more than 38,000 people have defected to APC as it completes its ward-to-ward campaign.

“We are satisfied with the level of acceptance and we thank the good people of the state for their support” adding that Bello would not disappoint them in his second term which he said would focus on infrastructure.

However, the Director-General, Musa Wada/Aro campaign council, Faruk Adejo said, “As usual, Mr Adeyemi suffers from a mixture of ignorance and arrogance.”

“Smart Adeyemi knows that his Bello is the most unpopular politician to have ever come on the ballot and they know that outside arming thugs and depending on using crooks and rogues within the system to manipulate the system, their candidate won’t get 20 per cent of the votes.

“We are inaugurating our campaign on Friday, but that honestly is to fulfil political tradition. Bello’s only legacy in Kogi is hunger, poverty and violence.

No single project commenced, completed and commissioned by Bello despite receiving over N400 billion in income in four years. That is enough campaign for us.” He added.