Dickson’s commissioner makes U-turn on resignation
Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa

The Bayelsa State Commissioner for Mineral Resources, Mr Markson Fefegha, who resigned his appointment and quit the Peoples Democratic Party on October 18, 2019, has rescinded his decision.

It was gathered that Fefegha reconsidered his decision and returned to the Governor Seriake Dickson-led administration and the PDP after he was prevailed upon by “several persons.”

Fefegha, who confirmed the development in a letter on Thursday announcing his return, said that the decision to resign was due to a breakdown in communication between him and Dickson.

READ ALSO: EFCC re-arraigns ex-INEC chair, Maurice Iwu, for alleged N1.23bn fraud

The commissioner, who is the only known commissioner to have left the government ahead of the governorship poll, made the U-turn seven days after he resigned.

He urged all his supporters to work for PDP’s victory in the forthcoming governorship election.

The letter reads, “It is with a deep sense of responsibility that I address my colleagues, political associates and supporters through this medium.

“You will recall that I resigned my appointment as Commissioner for Mineral Resources on the 18th of October, 2019 because of what I perceived as “political uncertainty” and other considerations.

“This was due largely to the communication gap between me and His Excellency, Henry Seriake Dickson, Governor of Bayelsa State at the time. Having met and discussed with him, I have reconsidered my decision to remain in the party and the government.

“Over the years, we have a shared bond of friendship and the mystic cord of brotherhood, which cannot be sacrificed on the altar of political exigencies.

“I shall continue to lavish adulation to his developmental efforts and quality of leadership to Bayelsa State and the Ijaw nation

“I urge all my supporters to remain steadfast and continue to support the Peoples Democratic Party.

“Let us join hands together to build a prosperous Bayelsa State.

I thank you for your understanding.”