Bayelsa election: APC’s Lyon promises devt in Diri’s LGA
Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa

The All Progressives Congress governorship candidate in Bayelsa State, Mr David Lyon, has promised to tackle the developmental challenges facing the people of Kolokuma/Opokuma LGA, if elected governor on November 16.

Lyon, who made the promise while addressing the people during the campaign visit of the APC to the Kolokuma/Opokuma LGA on Tuesday, said he would complete the Polaku/ Sabagreia Bridge project, which had been abandoned for eight years, to link up several communities.

His major opponent in the forthcoming governorship poll, Senator Douye Diri of the Peoples Democratic Party, hails from the Kolokuma/Opokuma LGA.

The APC candidate told the crowd comprising traditional rulers, elders, women and youths that his administration would also provide soft loans and grants for small and medium-scale enterprises and support women from the area to move them above the poverty line.

Lyon said, “I am an Ijaw man like you, and I know your problems because they are the same problems I face every day as a person. When I become governor, I assure you that I will work hard to solve your problems.

“First, I will complete the abandoned Polaku/Sabagreia Bridge to connect you to Yenagoa City. I will build befitting schools, hospitals and roads to ease your challenges as a people.

“I will sand-fill parts of Okoloba community in order to ensure that the annual flood that renders you homeless and jobless as a people doesn’t disturb you anymore. For our women, I will establish small-scale businesses for you. I will provide tools for farmers to sustain their means of livelihood.”

Speaking at the APC rally, a native of the area, Prof. Seiyefa Brisibe, complained that the people were not consulted by Governor Seriake Dickson and the PDP over the choice of their son, Senator Douye Diri, as the governorship candidate of the PDP.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]