Niger Delta: Senate rejects Akpabio’s N23bn capital budget
Sunday Aborisade, Abuja

The Senate on Monday rejected the N23bn 2020 budget proposal of the Ministry of Niger Delta, saying it was designed to fail.

The fiscal document was rejected after the Minister for Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, presented it before the Senate Committee on Niger Delta.

The panel, after the presentation, said the N23.890bn allocated to the ministry in the 2020 budget was not only meagre but too unrealistic to make any impact.

The Senate committee also faulted the executive arm of government for not releasing money to fund the capital projects in the 2019 budget.

Members of the committee noted with concern that, despite the outstanding N21bn worth of projects that were not implemented in the 2019 budget, the executive voted only N23bn for capital projects by the ministry in the 2020 budget.

The committee resolved to reject the budgetary allocation for the ministry and also directed the minister and other officials of the ministry at the session to rework it.

The Chairman of the committee, Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, also condemned the failure of the ministry to consult stakeholders in the Niger Delta before drawing up the budget.

Nwaoboshi said, “Where is the director in charge of projects? How did you come about the projects?

“Did you sit in your office and bring projects or did you consult stakeholders in the Niger Delta before you advised the minister on the projects to be put in the budget?”

The Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe, who is also a member of the committee, said, “This is an uncommon budget. When a budget is designed to fail, it is uncommon.

“I will suggest that the budget be taken back for reworking, taking into cognisance all the projects that were pointed out and we give them another day to come and defend the budget.”

The Senate committee said it was disheartening that President Muhammadu Buhari had not inaugurated any project executed by the ministry since 2015.

Senator Rochas Okorocha lamented that the current budget proposal was not different from those of two and three years ago.

He said, “This type of budget doesn’t produce anything feasible. You have to do your projects and complete them so you don’t sound like the NDDC because one of the worst establishments is the NDDC.”

Also in his remarks, Senator Sandy Ojang lamented a situation where capital components of yearly budgets would not be released to ministries.

He wondered what would be the need for budget defence if capital allocations were not made available to the ministries.

READ ALSO: We’re not behind Buhari’s probe of NDDC – Niger Delta govs

On his part, the Minister of State for Niger Delta, Senator Tayo Alasoadura, admitted that the budget was not sustainable.

Alasoadura said, “I think we should also note that, if we are to capture all the projects that our colleagues have asked us to capture, we will be allocating very paltry amount of money to all the projects.

“At the end of the day, it will not make sense and it will not favour anybody and it will be a budget designed to fail like one of the senators said.

“If we have 300 projects and you have money that can capture only 150, why put everything there and allocate a small amount of money that will not make any difference at the end of the day?”

The committee ruled that the minister should return next Monday to defend the revised budget.

Akpabio, said, “The 2020 budget proposal was prepared using the approved zero-based budgeting approach and also in line with the Medium Term Expenditure Framework/Economic Recovery and Growth Plan.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]