Gov Fintiri picks Atiku’s son, 22 others as commissioner nominees
Hindi Livinus, Yola

Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State has forwarded a list of 23 commissioner nominees to the State Assembly for screening and confirmation as commissioners.

Prominent among the commissioner designates is Adamu Atiku, the first son of Atiku Abubakar, former Vice President and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in 2019 general election.

Abdullahi Prambe, Secretary of the Adamawa State chapter of the PDP also made the list.

Aminu Iya-Abbas, Speaker of Adamawa House of Assembly read out the governor’s letter during plenary on Wednesday.

READ ALSO: Justice ministry needs N30bn annually to settle N150bn debt —Malami

Atiku loyalists, Ibrahim Mijinyawa and Umaru Daware who both defected from the All Progressives Congress to the PDP shortly after they resigned their posts as commissioners under the administration of former Governor Jibrilla Bindow also made it to the list as commissioner nominees for Yola North and Fufore local government respectively.

Others are Mohammed Umar (Madagali), Elijah Tumba (Michika), Dr. Ishaya Dabari (Michika), Sunday Mathew (Mubi North), Prof. Isa Abdullahi ( Mubi South), Hassan Kaigama (Maiha), Dr. Umar Garba ( Hong), Lami Patrick (Gombi), Usman Diyajo (Girei), Mustapha Jika (Yola South), Sanusi Faruk ( Toungo), Bappa Isa ( Ganye), Aloysius Babadoke ( Jada) and Shuaibu Audu ( Mayo Belwa).

SEE ALSO: Lagos Police released my son’s killers, aided their escape —Bereaved mother

Also on the list are Iliya James (Demsa), Dishi Khobe ( Numan), Justina Nkom (Lamurde), Wilbina Jackson (Guyuk) and Adamu Titus (Shelleng).

Prior to Wednesday’s list, Governor Fintiri had appointed Barrister Afraimu Jingi as Commissioner of Justice and Attorney General out of exigency because there are legal appeals involving the state.

Speaking on the list, the House Committee Chairman on Information, Mr Japhet Kefas, said no date has been fixed for their screening.

“The house will decide next week on a date for their screening,” Kefas said.

The house had on Tuesday approved the list of 40 Special Advisers for the governor.