NASS will deepen women participation in politics —Lawan
Sunday Aborisade, Abuja

President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has said that the National Assembly would support initiatives and efforts aimed at widening the scope of women participation in politics and governance.

Lawan, according to a statement by his media aide, Ola Awoniyi, stated this on Wednesday while hosting a delegation of United Nations Women at the National Assembly, Abuja.

Lawan said, “There’s a need to do more for women participation in politics and governance in Nigeria.

READ ALSO: Justice ministry needs N30bn annually to settle N150bn debt —Malami

“We are looking forward to improving the number of women at the National Assembly by widening and deepening the scope of participation of women in Nigerian politics,” Lawan said.

The Senate President recalled that the introduction and passage of the Not-Too-Young-To-Run Act by the 8th National Assembly facilitated the participation of young persons in politics during the last general elections.

He said the National Assembly, in a bid to extend the gesture to Nigerian women, “will be openly disposed to support everything that will widen the political space for them.

“I believe that with the percentage of the population that our women in Nigeria have, they deserve to be there on the table when decisions will be taken.

“I believe that the support will be total, whole and complete when we are able to capture every possible interest or sphere of participation that women are supposed to be involved in,” Lawan said.

The Deputy Executive Director and leader of the UN Women delegation, Ms. Asa Regner, called on the National Assembly to support efforts that will ensure the inclusion of women in governance.

According to Regner, Nigeria blazing the trail would encourage other countries within the African continent to widen the space for women participation in politics.

“Whatever happens in Nigeria plays a very important role in the region and the rest of the world,” Regner stressed.