APC hands flag to Bayelsa gov candidate
Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa

The national leadership of the All Progressives Congress on Monday formally handed the party’s flag and its symbol, the broom, to the party’s governorship candidate in Bayelsa State, David Lyon.

APC’s national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, gave Lyon the flag and the broom during the official commencement of campaigns by the party for the November 16 governorship poll at Ogbia Town, headquarters of the Ogbia Local Government Area.

At the event, two former aides of Dickson, Don Evarada and Michael Ogiasa; the immediate past chairman of Bayelsa State Sanitation Authority, Robert Enogha; a former member of the House of Representatives, Sodaguwo Festus-Omoni; and a former deputy national treasurer of the PDP, Claudius Enegesi, who had all defected from the PDP to the APC, were received by the party’s national leadership.

Oshiomhole, who also presented Lyon’s running mate, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, to the crowd of supporters, reiterated his advice to Governor Seriake Dickson and the Peoples Democratic Party not to use guns during the election.

Oshiomhole said, “I want to appeal to him (Dickson), we are coming for a contest. We are not going to choose the next governor the way, they fought with guns to replace their speaker under Dickson only last month.”

Also speaking, Sylva, who is also the Director-General, APC Bayelsa Governorship Campaign Council, accused the Dickson-led administration of receiving and squandering over N1.6tn revenue that had accrued to the state since 2012.

Lyon also promised to light up Bayelsa and ensure the accelerated development and security of the state if elected, stressing that he would be a servant-leader and not a master-servant.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]