Kaduna Central: Appeal court affirms Uba Sani’s election
Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna

The Court of Appeal in Kaduna on Monday affirmed Uba Sani as the duly elected Senator for Kaduna Central Senatorial District in the February 23 National Assembly election.

The Peoples Democratic Party Senatorial candidate in the election, Mr. Lawal Usman had dragged Sani to court, following the earlier ruling of the election petition tribunal in favour of Uba Sani of the All Progressives Congress.

But the Appellate Court dismissed the three grounds of appeal by the PDP’s candidate namely; that Senator Sani was not qualified to contest as of the time of the election and that the polls were marred by electoral malpractice in some Local Government Areas while the third ground was that the elections were marred by violence, claims that could not be substantiated.

READ ALSO: Backdate minimum wage payment by five months, Labour urges FG

The court while affirming the tribunal judgement, said Sani was qualified and validly won the poll and also awarded N100,000 as cost against the PDP candidate.

Justice Adefope Okogie of the Appellate Court in the 20-minute judgement on Monday said the court upheld the earlier decision of the tribunal.

One of the counsels to Sani, Sule Shuaibu said, “What the judgement simply means is that justice is served the way it should be seen served. We are grateful to Almighty God.

“We have seen the light at the end of the tunnel. You don’t have to be a lawyer to know that from what has transpired, Uba Sani, who was popularly elected by the people and whose election was challenged in court, we knew he would be victorious. He was victorious at the tribunal and the tribunal spoke in unison.”

Meanwhile, there was wild jubilation at the Appeal Court premises on Monday following the judgement which affirmed Sani as the winner of the election for the Kaduna Central Senatorial District.

Several of the supporters of the senator were seen chanting victory and solidarity songs shortly after the judgment.

Speaking on behalf of the supporters, Hajiya Rabi, one of the women leaders, said with the judgment of the Appellate Court, the hope of the PDP candidate had been sealed.

“This (judgement) will at least vindicate all of us who voted in good faith in favour of our Senator and will also allow him to concentrate on the job ahead. We have all along known it is only a waste of time and unnecessary distraction,” she said.