Akande shares Awolowo’s view on education — Osinbajo
John Ameh and Friday Olokor

Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo said on Tuesday that a former national chairman, All Progressives Congress, Chief Bisi Akande, shared the same views with the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo on the importance of education in developing the mind and contributing to nation building.

He noted that both men held the view that a developed human mind would ultimately translate to good governance.

Osinbajo, who spoke at the public presentation of a book, The Challenges of Good Governance in Nigeria, in Abuja to honour Chief Akande, recalled that this was the reason Awolowo earmarked 41 per cent of the budget of the defunct Western Region to education.

The book was written by Mr Oluseyi Adetanmi.

READ ALSO: Edo APC crisis deepens as faction suspends Oshiomhole

The VP told the gathering that both Akande and Awolowo were in the same school of progressive politics.

He said, “A tradition of our political tendency is that of introspection or reflection. By our tendency, I refer to that established by Papa Obafemi Awolowo, which in spite of its various versions, we all agree to describe as progressive politics.

“Awolowo in his lifetime reflected extensively on the Nigerian political economy and all that surrounded it. He did so in several books and speeches. He reflected on federalism, on fiscal policy within a federal state; he took positions on ideology and its place in developmental politics; he wrote and spoke extensively on public finance. He concerned himself with the solutions to the poverty and misery of the majority of the Nigerian people in his days.

“Because he subjected himself to the rigour and discipline of writing down his thoughts, his views have endured through the decades and we can use his ideas in contemporary governance.

“Deep reflection is crucial in political leadership and is the difference between transformational leadership and the banal. So, we are able to understand why Awolowo thought it fit to spend 41 per cent of the budget of the Western Region on education. A tutored mind, Awolowo believed, would unleash the potential in the mind, body and spirit.

“Anyone who has paid attention to Chief Bisi Akande and his political life will notice that he also observes that tradition of documenting his thoughts on governance, on the responsibilities of those who govern.”

“So, you may have come across some of his books; A Fresh Start in Osun State, Moving Osun State to Prosperity, The Drama of Fate, where he reflects on the challenges of sub-national governance and his prescriptions based on his experiences.”

The book presentation was attended by other personalities, including the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; and Governor Umar Gandujee of Kano State.

Tinubu, represented by the immediate-past governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, said he considered himself lucky to be among the few mentored by Akande.

The Minister of Interior and former governor of Osun State, Rauf Aregbesola, hailed the elder statesman for his great strides when he was governor of Osun State.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]