Buhari must stop lawlessness in Kogi – Achuba
Gbenga Odogun,Lokoja

The impeached Deputy Governor of Kogi State, Simon Achuba, says he is heading for court to seek the nullification of his impeachment by the state House of Assembly.

Achuba, who said this at a press conference in Lokoja on Sunday, added that President Muhammadu Buhari must stop the lawlessness in Kogi State

Achuba said his impeachment on Friday was unconstitutional and an illegality that will not stand.

Achuba, in a press conference shortly after moving out of the official residence of the deputy governor, said swearing in anyone else as the deputy governor would amount to continuation of illegality being perpetrated by Governor Yahaya Bello.

“I got home last Friday to see some policemen manning the gate, while my security details had been withdrawn. The Commissioner of Police told me on the telephone that the men were there to protect me and prevent looting of government property.

“But the policemen prevented me from going out of the house and no visitor was allowed in while my phone battery went down due to numerous calls coming from my loved ones who wanted to know what was going on.”

He called on Buhari to beam the searchlight on the lawlessness in Kogi State to prevent the emergence of an insurgency.

“I which to draw the attention of President Muhammadu Buhari and well-meaning Nigerians to the lawlessness going in Kogi State and sound a note of warning that they may be breeding another Boko Haram,” he said

He said he had instructed his lawyer to commence a judicial process to reclaim his mandate and put an end to executive lawlessness in the state.

Meanwhile, the leader of the state House of Assembly, Hassan Abdulahi, in a statement accused the judicial panel of inquiry of compromise in the assignment given to them.

Bello said, “Based on the rule of procedure given to members of the panel, their assignment was a fact-finding one, and they were not required to give any resolution.

“The panel submitted a report to us and based on their report, we gave our verdict. They are not supposed to give any verdict in this circumstance.

“The decision of whether the deputy governor is guilty or not guilty is that of the House. If you look at Section 188(11), it says the House of Assembly is the only authority which determines what gross misconduct is. It is not for the panel to say proved or not proved.

“In the rule of procedure, it was written boldly that the Panel shall not give the report of their investigation to anybody except to the House of Assembly.

“So, if the panel has gone ahead to release the report to anybody, that means they compromised.

“It is a known fact that the impeached deputy governor was on some national television stations discussing issues that should be classified information about the state government, going against the oath of secrecy he swore to. Does that not amount to gross misconduct?

“ Aside that, he (Achuba) also affirmed through an affidavit that he did commit the offence as alleged and the reports he submitted came in three parts. How come the version on social media is only part 1 and 2?”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]