2020 budget: Health, education in familiar territory of neglect
TOBI AWORINDE writes on the threats posed by the Federal Government’s failure to meet the international benchmarks on education and health budgets

Bill Gates did not mince his words while addressing the now-defunct National Economic Council on March 22, 2018, on the need to invest more in health and education.

Enumerating some of the indicators of government’s failure to prioritise health and education, the co-chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation said Nigeria was “one of the most dangerous countries in the world to give birth” and had the “fourth worst maternal mortality rate in the world, only ahead of Sierra Leone, Central African Republic, and Chad.”

Gates stated that in upper-middle-income countries, the average life expectancy was 75 years, 68 in lower-middle-income countries and 62 in low-income countries, but that “in Nigeria, it is lower still — just 53 years.”

According to him, the Federal Government’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan does not reflect the people’s needs — investment in infrastructure and competitiveness must go hand in hand with investments in people to anchor the economy over the long term.

The philanthropist’s clarion call echoed a global concern that led to decisive action by the United Nations and the African Union, among others.

Heads of state of African Union countries met in April 2001 and pledged to set a target of allocating at least 15 per cent of their annual budget to improve the health sector.

The Abuja Declaration, as the resolution came to be known, has, however, failed to elicit implementation in Nigeria.

In the same vein, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation, in its 2015 report titled ‘Education for All 2000-2015: Achievements and Challenges,’ recommended that 15 to 20 per cent should be allocated to education in the national budgets of developing countries.

Part of the report reads, “In 2006, the high-level group on EFA proposed that governments should spend between four per cent and six per cent of the gross national product on education and that, within government budgets, between 15 per cent and 20 per cent should be earmarked for education.”

But over the years, the country’s budgets for education and health have oscillated below 10 per cent, much to the chagrin of stakeholders in both sectors.

A comparative study of Nigeria and Ghana shows that Nigeria’s health budget for 2018 stood at N340.46bn, which was 3.95 per cent of its N8.6tn proposed national spending, whereas Ghana’s budget for health the same year was 4.4bn cedis (N353.79bn), translating to 6.57 per cent of the neighbouring nation’s 67.28bn cedis (N5.38tn) total allocation.

A breakdown of the health budgets of both countries showed that Ghana, a country of 28.21 million, provided about 156.77 cedis (N12,541.22) per citizen, while Nigeria, then estimated to have a population of 186 million, allocated approximately N1,832.62 for each citizen.

Of the total N9.45tn budgeted for 2020 by the Federal Government, N427.3bn (4.5 per cent ) was allocated to health, while education is expected to receive N652.94bn (6.9 per cent).

The Vice President of the Commonwealth Medical Association, Dr Osahon Enabulele, in an interview with our correspondent, described the health budget as scandalous and sad.

Enabulele stated that even in the United Kingdom and countries that made significant investments in external military invasion, a lot was budgeted for health.

The UK, in 2018, budgeted £129bn on health, which translated to 15 per cent of its national allocation of £842bn.

Enabulele said, “It remains very scandalous that Nigeria that hosted the 2001 African Heads of Government meeting has yet to meet even up to half of that declaration.

“It remains scandalous that, even in this current dispensation, we have not been able to move up to five per cent of the national budget in terms of budgetary allocation to health.

“It is very sad and shows that perhaps we still have not been able to give the necessary priority to health because countries that have made progress in their economy, including in Asia and the West, have rightly prioritised health.”

The former President of the Nigerian Medical Association explained that health was of prime importance to Britain, followed by education, even before defence.

“And these are countries that even have very huge arsenals when it comes to defence, warfare, etc., yet, they consider health a top priority.

“But in Nigeria, we are not even at war, and yet, we do not prioritise health, and it, therefore, means that Nigerians do not understand the linkages between health care, investment in health care, productivity, economic well-being and prosperity,” he added.

Enabulele underscored that the rest of the world had moved to issues of universal health coverage, saying it was for the sake of Nigerians that the Nigerian government at all levels should increase spending on health while ensuring judicious management of these funds.

“However, they cannot but increase their investment in health care if they wish to get Nigeria to that level where they are supposed to be in terms of being the supposed big giant within the African continent,” he stated.

Similarly, the President of the National Association of Resident Doctors, Dr Aliyu Sokomba, said it seemed obvious that the Federal Government of Nigeria was not interested in the health sector, describing the health budget as “too meagre” and “very insignificant.”

“That is why they seek healthcare outside this country. They know that all the fundamentals of a functional health system are lacking in this country, so the health system cannot function. What is more amazing is how Nigerians have come to terms with this reality that they are doomed and they do not have a functional government to cater to health sector.

“But for NARD, we will continue to talk about it. We will not give up. We believe someday, somehow, things will be right, and we will continue to push until it is right. The budget is entirely insignificant. I cannot imagine a situation where, instead of budgeting 15 per cent, you are budgeting less than five per cent.”

In its EFA 2015 report, UNESCO highlighted the state of education in Nigeria, saying, “Nigeria has lacked progress in nearly all education indicators. And between 1999 and 2012, even though Nigeria’s GNP per capita grew substantially, the progress in its adjusted net enrolment ratio and the out-of-school population nearly stalled.”

Former Minister of Education, Prof Tunde Adeniran, in an interview with our correspondent, stressed the danger of neglecting education, saying the only worry he had was Nigeria’s seeming lack of consideration for giving appropriate attention to education.

Adeniran said, “There are two different levels: one is for the country to appreciate the essence of education, and then budget substantial funds for it, meaning covering the areas that it should cover because I am unrepentant in my strong belief that education should be free and compulsory up to secondary school level.

“Nigerians have no business roaming the streets and the Nigerian government has no right to deprive any pupil that right to education up to secondary school level. It has to be free and compulsory. The other area is that whatever is now allocated to education, which should be the lion’s share of the national budget, should be divided appropriately into education (sub) sectors.

“In other words, there has to be prioritisation in such a way that basic education for all would be given priority, and secondly, technical education in areas that would give the average Nigerian capacity to be able to use their hands and brains in productive areas.”

Adeniran also decried the state of the teaching community, saying there was a need to invest in the re-education of teachers.

He explained, “We will not be doing justice to this country and to the education sector if we do not devote some funds to the training and retraining of teachers because you cannot give what you don’t have and it’s a disaster in that area.

“You see some teachers nowadays and wonder who they are teaching. Parents will feel scared to see some of them teach their wards simply because they are ill equipped and they demonstrate and exhibit so much ignorance that you feel like crying for this country.”

Prof Bamidele Faleye of the Faculty of Education, Obafemi Awolowo University, agreed and described investment in education as important to national development, adding that it should be high and long-term.

According to Faleye, if a nation invests hugely in education, after about 10 years, the investment will begin to reflect in the quality of human capital and will have a great effect on technological development and critical thinking.

He added that if the UNESCO recommendation could not be met, the government should budget above 10 per cent of the national budget to education.

The education professor said, “It saddens my heart seeing that the amount allocated to education is that paltry. In a situation where investment in education is very small, you have a fewer number of people having interested in schooling.

“Part of the problem of education is what we can observe: you see people shunting in queues; some are not even willing to queue at all. People want to cut corners in almost everything. Those are some of the negative effects of poor education. A society that is well educated will be organised and the opposite will be the case for a society that is poorly educated, and that is what we are experiencing.”

Professor of Sociology and former Dean, Faculty of Social Science, University of Lagos, Olayiwola Olurode, also bemoaned the budget for the education sector, which he said was characterised by disrespect for the teaching profession.

Olurode highlighted that the domestic disregard for teaching, saying, “We live in a country where close to 10 million children are out of school, where school structures are essentially dilapidated, where teachers are owed salaries, and where landlords don’t want to give their houses to teachers.

“I just finished giving a career talk to students in Iwo and I asked them a question: ‘Raise your hand if you look up to becoming a teacher in future.’ None of them (did); even children of teachers didn’t raise their hands.

“I’ve had the same experience before, even in the university where I teach. I’ve asked that same question several times, where none of the students in my class — Political Sociology — even wanted to be university teachers, let alone primary or secondary school teachers.”

According to him, one of the ways to gauge development in any society is to examine the reputation of the profession.

He said, “Which is the most respected profession? Teaching is not one in this country. If there is no investment in teachers or in education, how will the teaching profession attract quality people? The other indication is, look at enrolment in universities and the courses people want to do.

“People who ended up becoming education students never — only a very small percentage of them — would have chosen education ab initio, when they wanted to sit the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination. So, only people that are reluctant to do education end up doing it, because they know the remuneration is poor and (so), they don’t dress well.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]