Military should take orders from INEC – Situation Room
Friday Olokor, Abuja

A coalition of over 70 civil society organisations under the aegis of Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room has warned against the deployment of military in the November 15 governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states.

The election monitoring group, however, said where it would be necessary to deploy soldiers, they should take instructions from the Independent National Electoral Commission which could only make request for their deployment.

The Executive Director, Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre and Convener, Clement Nwankwo, stated this in an interview with The PUNCH.

Nwankwo said, “The ideal situation is that the military does not participate in elections. The police should be fully and properly equipped to police elections, no matter the terrain. But we know that we are not there yet.

“What we are really saying at this time is that were the soldiers to be deployed for election, they should be as requested by INEC and they should be taking instructions from INEC on where they are needed.

“Deploying a large number of soldiers as it happened during the last general elections without accountability and responsibility to the election management body is unacceptable.

“We have issued our reports from the last election, we expect that they would have taken lessons from the Election Observation Report of all the different observer groups, including Situation Room.

READ ALSO: Bonfrere blames attackers for CHAN Eagles defeat

“Particularly, you know we issued a report on Osun State which had its challenges that discredited that election. So, we are hoping that all of the lessons and reports from the observer groups would help INEC to conduct a better election.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]