Kogi gov poll: Adeyemi asks PDP to concede defeat
Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja

The Director General, All Progressives Congress campaign council, Senator Smart Adeyemi has advised the main opposition party in the state, Peoples Democratic Party to concede defeat following their alleged inability to commence campaign.

Adeyemi told journalists on Friday in Lokoja that the deafening silence in the camp of PDP meant that either they don’t have any message for the people or they are allegedly planning mayhem during the election or better still it could mean that they simply have no means to embark on campaign.

The former lawmaker said that as a result of their failure, they should just concede defeat and join Governor Bello in the task of rebuilding the state chattered by their 17 years of their misrule.

READ ALSO: EFCC to rehabilitate Yahoo-Yahoo boys

He said that they may also be afraid of the likely outcome of the litigation arising from the ‘inconclusive’ primary that produced Engineer Musa Wada as PDP candidate.

Adeyemi said, “Campaign has officially started but we can’t find them anywhere, no billboard, no poster, no mobilisation of any kind by PDP. It is either they have a hidden agenda, planning mayhem or they don’t just have anything to say to the people. They may also be ashamed of their past misgovernance of over 17 years.

“Help us to look for them or advise them to withdraw from the race.

He said APC has started mobilising the people because it has a lot to tell the people.

He said, “As for APC, we are hitting the ground running in terms of campaigns to all the nook and crannies of the state and even beyond to other States including Lagos and Abuja and the North to sensitise indigenes of the state and present our achievements in the last four year and programmes for the future.

However in a swift reaction, the State Publicity Secretary of PDP, Bode Ogunmola said that PDP is at the grassroots moving from house to house.

He said that PDP will teach Smart Adeyemi and his likes a lesson that they have never learnt before come November 16.

“The people know what they want. They have rejected this government and they should start writing their hand over notes.No amount of propaganda can save them now because Kogi people are wiser and better informed,” Ogunmola added.