Bayelsans not convinced of INEC’s impartiality, says Dickson
Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa

The Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, on Wednesday, said Balyelsans were not convinced of the impartiality of the Independent National Electoral Commission in the forthcoming governorship election in the state.

A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr Fidelis Soriwei, on Wednesday, stated that Dickson made the comment while speaking on political developments in the state in a live media chat in Yenagoa.

The governor challenged INEC and other state institutions to exhibit a high sense of professionalism by conducting free, fair, credible and peaceful election on November 16.

Dickson also called on the security agencies to resettle all internally displaced persons in the Bassambiri, Nembe local government areas and Peremabiri in Southern Ijaw, stressing the need to prevent the disenfranchisement of voters in the election.

He urged the leader of the All Progressives Congress in the state and Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, to collaborate with the state government in ensuring peaceful election and desist from promoting political violence.

He said, “The activities of INEC have not given confidence to Bayelsans. People were driven away from Nembe Bassambiri, and they allowed materials to go into volatile areas to declare manipulated results. INEC should do what is right rather than colluding with undesirable elements to perpetrate crime.

“The security agencies should do the right thing to return the displaced people of Nembe Bassambiri to their community so that they can vote in this election. The leader of the APC, Chief Timipre Sylva, should renounce political violence. He should collaborate with me to ensure a violence-free poll.”

Dickson, who also described the APC as a party in distress, challenged the governorship candidates to hold healthy debates on issues of governance to enable the electorate to assess their capabilities.

The governor said the decision of the leadership of the APC to give major appointments to defectors into their party could only point to a party without people and structures and unprepared for election in the state.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]