Umahi denies ordering shooting anyone who blocks convoy
Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki

Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State has said there was never a time he ordered security agents attached to him to shoot anyone who blocks his convoy.

Umahi said the report that trended recently wherein he was quoted to have asked security agents to kill anyone who blocked his convoy was the handiwork of social media enthusiasts, who used the various platforms to spread falsehood.

Umahi stated this in a statement signed by his Special Assistant on Media, Mr Francis Nweze, in Abakaliki on Monday.

The statement partly read, “Few days ago, the social media was awash with fabricated stories of total falsehood with the intent to discredit the Governor of Ebonyi State, Mr David Nweze Umahi. The stories had it that “Governor Umahi ordered security agents to shoot at anyone that blocks his convoy; and another fallacy, was how a certain man called ‘Fear Not’ blocked the convoy of the governor, struggled with some soldiers and made away with one of the soldiers’ rifle.

“The above stories came as a shock to the state government as all the stories are in total disagreement with the reality on the ground. Undoubtedly, social media networks have done us real good in some aspect, but it has harmed the general public greatly, because the falsehood they circulate is alarming because it is uncensored.

“Governor David Nweze Umahi is an ordained deacon of the Christ Embassy, an Apostle of the Anglican Church, and a committed child of God, who is known for his spirit of forgiveness. He is a man with conscience and never ordered the security agents to shoot at anyone who blocks his convoy.

“Umahi returned on Friday, 4th October from South Africa after a two-day working visit with Mr President to South Africa. He arrived at the Imo State airport from Abuja around 7.30pm and drove down to Ohaozara around 12.10am to inspect the ongoing construction of the Ebonyi State University College of Medicine. He took off around 12.45am to Abakaliki after the inspection, only to get to Onicha around 1am to see some drunk young men who blocked the road in the name of ‘wake keep.’

“The governor was at first sad with the delay in opening the roadblock as he already had a long day but the team of police and soldiers attached to his convoy got down and cleared the roadblock and the convoy took off to Abakaliki safely but it was later observed that one of the Army officer’s rifle fell off while trying to clear the road.

“It is pertinent to note that there was no struggle throughout the time the incident occurred; but the governor, who is always thinking about the safety of Ebonyians wondered what could have happened if it was an ordinary person moving without a team of army or police.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]