Sylva leads Bayelsa APC campaign council 
Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa

The Bayelsa State chapter of the All Progressives Congress on Tuesday inaugurated its governorship campaign council in Yenagoa for the forthcoming November 16 governorship poll in the state.

The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, is Director General of the campaign council while Professor Seiyefa Brisibe is the Alternate Director General.

Also, Eddy Orubo, Christopher Enai, Sonme Ogilogi and Barr. Festus Daumiebi were Deputy Directors-General while the state Secretary of APC, Alabo Martins, is the Campaign Secretary.

READ ALSO: 847 soldiers killed by Boko Haram, buried in Borno cemetery – Ndume

The state Chairman of the APC, Mr. Jothan Amos formally inaugurated the council and the various committees in the presence of party elders, stakeholders and other loyalists.

He remarked that the APC was best placed to win the political contest in Bayelsa State.

At the event, the governorship candidate of the APC, David Lyon, promised to change Bayelsa State for the good of all.

He said, “To defeat the Peoples Democratic Party is a task that must be done. Everyone has seen the hardship in the state. We are in total darkness. We cannot continue to remain a civil-service state. Together, we will change the narrative.”

In his remarks, the Alternate Director General, Brisibe said the APC represented the hope and yearnings of the people of the state.

He expressed confidence that the party would come out victorious, adding that “We are going to Government House, Yenagoa. We will banish hunger. We will banish poverty. We will banish insecurity. We will banish darkness. We will banish dictatorship”, he declared.

Also speaking, a former deputy governor of Bayelsa State, Peremobowei Ebebi, thanked the leadership of APC in the state for appointing him as Adviser to the Campaign Council.

Ebebi, who represented the Bayelsa West zone, having only recently defected from the PDP to the APC, promised to do his best in ensuring that APC was victorious.

Veteran politician from Bayelsa East, Dr. George Allen Fente, congratulated all those appointed into the various committees, advising that the coming election presents an opportunity to “choke” the PDP.