Fresh controversy trails appointment of LG caretaker committees in Plateau
James Abraham, Jos

Fresh controversy on Tuesday trailed the appointment of Management Committee Chairmen in four Council Areas of Plateau State by Governor Simon Lalong.

The Governor has been in the news in the past few weeks for appointing All Progressives Congress candidates who won their primaries preparatory to the botched October 2018 council poll to run the affairs in the affected four council areas of Jos North, Jos South, Riyom and Barkin Ladi

Last week, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party in the state condemned the action of the Governor describing it as undemocratic and illegal.

A forum of PDP candidates and councillors had equally addressed a press conference in Jos rejecting the appointment of interim committees while calling for fresh election into the four council areas.

READ ALSO: It’s shameful that Mamman Daura lives in Villa, controls Presidency – Afenifere

The controversy over the appointment of the management committees continued on Tuesday with a group under the aegis of Autochthonous People of Jos North, calling on the Governor to reverse the appointment or be ready to contend with the people

Addressing a press conference in Jos on Tuesday, leaders of the group including Mrs Theresa Kaze, Jonathan Azi Nyako, Daniel Boka Garuba and Da Chollom Gyang, accused the governor of imposing a non indigene on the people as Chairman of Jos North LGA to pave way for the alleged quest for an Emir of Jos

The group said “We observe that the imposition of the APC candidates as new Management Committees for Jos North, Jos South, Barkin Ladi and Riyom is coming a few months after Governor Lalong tested the waters under the guise of traditional council reforms. We have it on good authority that plans are in the pipeline for Hon. Shehu Bala (Committee chairman appointed for Jos North) to submit to Governor Lalong a memo for the creation of a district in Jos North for the Hausa Fulani which will prepare the ground for the realization of their age-long Emir of Jos.

“We totally reject the attempt to dash the Hausa Fulani oligarchy an undeserved victory.

“We wish to use the opportunity to draw the attention of government especially the international community to the humanitarian disaster this dangerous move portends.

“We are equally prepared to die for our people and for our collective heritage just the same way Governor Lalong is prepared to die for President Buhari.”

But the government in its reaction on Tuesday cautioned the people against taking the laws into their hands over the matter.

The state Commissioner for Information, Mr Daniel Manjang said that the appointments of the management committees were made in the best interest of the people adding that whoever was not satisfied with the action of the government should seek redress in the court of law as the government would not allow anyone to cause confusion in the state.