Oshiomhole’s aide, CP clash over ex-gov home’s attack
Success Nwogu and Sola Shittu

The Edo State Commissioner of Police, DanMallam Mohammed, and Mr Simon Ebegbulem, the Chief Press Secretary to the All Progressives Congress, National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, on Monday traded words on the reported attack on the Benin residence of the APC leader.

Mohammed, who spoke with Government House press corps debunked allegations of an attack on the former governor’s residence and warned troublemakers to steer clear of the state.

But Ebegbulem urged the Edo Police boss not to allow himself to be used by politicians in the state whom he claimed, were bent on maligning the image of the national chairman for their selfish interest.

Ebegbulem insisted that attempts were made to attack his boss but the police and some youths loyal to Oshiomhole thwarted the plan.

The CP said the police beefed up security around the APC national chairman while his visit to the state lasted, adding that no attack was recorded.

DanMallam said, “To the best of my knowledge, no one had access to the house of the APC national chairman. When he came to the state, we beefed up security around him, from his house to the Oba’s palace, from there to the airport before he left for Abuja.

“Let me use this medium to warn troublemakers that Edo State is very peaceful and calm. The state is the most peaceful in the South-South geopolitical zone of Nigeria. We will do everything according to the law to ensure that the peace the people of Edo State are enjoying is not truncated and any attempt by anyone to cause trouble in the state will be resisted with maximum force.”

But Ebegbulem said he did not want to take issue with the Edo State police boss because he wanted to believe the state had a super cop as CP in Edo.

He, however, asked the CP to find out who were those that pursued the thugs that came to attack Oshiomhole in his residence before they were dispersed following information that thugs had laid siege to his residence with a view to attacking him.

“Was it not the CP that sent his men to come and restore law and order? If the CP claimed there was nothing, how come he decided to beef up security around the national chairman’s residence? I even read where the police claimed the people who went there were protesters, do you protest at 8pm at the residence of the national chairman of the ruling party? Do you protest at night?,” Ebegbulem asked.

He said if Oshiomhole had run into those thugs without knowing about their presence, “what do you think would have happened?”

READ ALSO: I didn’t transfer Delta poll petition case – CJN

Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party on Monday said the attack by suspected members of the APC on Oshiomhole indicated that the APC had disintegrated.

The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, said, ”The indisputable fact among Nigerians is that the APC has become torn apart within its core.”

He alleged that the APC had never been a genuine platform for governance.

Ologbondiyan said, “Nigerians expect Oshiomhole to respond to the demands of his party members, who are chasing him around like a common tout and for which he was reported to have hidden in a hotel in Benin City.

“Is it not absurd for a national chairman of a political party that claims to have won an election just a few months back to require the services of a truckload of police men and personal thugs to escape from Benin to Abuja?”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]