EU, US, 74 others to monitor polls
Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja

The Independent National Electoral Commission has approved 76 observer groups to monitor the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State, while 75 will monitor that of Bayelsa State.

According to the commission’s document detailing the names of the groups, 68 domestic observer groups and eight foreign groups were approved for Kogi State, while 67 domestic groups and eight foreign groups were approved for Bayelsa State.

The foreign observer groups approved for the elections include the European Union, National Democratic Institute, Pan-African Women Project and the International Foundation for Electoral System.

Others are the British High Commission, American Embassy, International Republican Institute and the Canadian High Commission.

Some of the domestic observer groups approved for the elections include the Nigerian Bar Association, Transition Monitoring Group, CLEEN Foundation, Northern Patriotic Front and NEPAD.

Some others are YIAGA Africa, Police Service Commission, Institute for Peace and Conflict Resolution and Women Arise for Change Initiative.

In some of the facts on the election made available by the commission, the election in Kogi will hold in 2,548 polling units and 3,508 voting points.

The commission put the registered voter population of the state at 1,646,350, while it will recruit 16,139 election officials.

It said 23 political parties would be on the ballot for the election.

The document read, “Sixty-four political parties conducted party primaries, while 49 filed nominations.

“The commission received 41 valid nominations and eight invalid nominations, while 18 political parties withdrew from the contest.

“Twenty-three political parties will be on the ballot for the election.”

For Bayelsa, the election will hold in 1,804 polling units and 440 voting points, with the total registered voter population put at 923,182.

The commission will recruit 10,063 personnel for the election.

It said 45 political parties would be on the ballot.

“Fifty-six political parties notified the commission and conducted their primaries, but only 52 filed in nominations.

“Forty-five valid nominations were received. We recorded six invalid nominations and one withdrawal from the contest.

“Forty-five political parties will be on the ballot for the election in Bayelsa State,” it added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]