APC, ADP differ over Oyetola’s visit to Adeoti’s house
Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo

The ruling All Progressives Congress and the Action Democratic Party in Osun State on Sunday expressed different opinions regarding Governor Adegboyega Oyetola’s visit to the residence of the candidate of the Action Democratic Party in the 2018 governorship election in the state, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti.

While APC said Adeoti, who left the APC following the adoption of direct primary to choose the governorship candidate of the party last year was free to return, ADP insisted that the former Secretary to Osun State Government would remain in the party where he contested the 2018 election.

Adeoti in July 2018, resigned his position as the SSG, and alongside scores of APC members, dumped the party and pitched his tent with the ADP, on which platform he contested the governorship poll.

Oyetola, however, after attending the conferment of religious titles on some prominent indigenes of Iwo, including ex-Managing Director of The Monitor newspapers, Alhaji Liad Tella, who was turbaned as Asiwaju Adini of Iwo, on Saturday, paid a visit to Adeoti in his residence,

The development had led to insinuations that the former SSG had secretly returned to the APC.

Reacting to the visit in an interview with our correspondent, spokesman for the Adeoti Campaign Organisation, Kayode Agbaje, said, “It was just a visit by the governor to a politician.”

He said, “For now, Adeoti remains an ADP chieftain and leader in Osun State. No one should read meanings to a mere friendly visit.”

READ ALSO: 72-year-old man in remand for allegedly impregnating daughter

The APC spokesman in the state, Mr Kunle Oyatomi, when contacted, said the decision to return to the party would depend on Adeoti.

He, however, added that Adeoti and his group would be welcomed if they return to the APC because the party would want to reconcile with all its entranged members.

“We won’t say APC did not miss those that left, especially our former SSG. The 46,000 votes he got in the governorship election really affected us as a party.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]