Nigeria’ll never be one-party state, CUPP tells APC
Success Nwogu, Abuja

The Coalition of United Political Parties on Monday said Nigeria will never become a one-party state.

The CUPP Spokesman, Mr. Imo Ugochinyere, in a statement, said it was laughable the claim by the National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Mr. Lanre Issa-Onilu, that opposition was dead in Nigeria.

He said Issa-Onilu’s claim was as a result of the effort of the opposition that exposed some of the alleged unsavoury plots and plans of the APC and the Federal Government to allegedly undermine the judiciary.

He urged the APC-led FG to rather fix Nigeria.

Ugochinyere said, “The Coalition of United Political Parties has read a statement credited to APC that Nigeria under its government is becoming a one-party state.

“We also note the uncharitable words used by the party’s spokesman, Lanre Issa-Onilu, in describing the CUPP which has remained a thorn in the flesh of the APC government whose sole agenda is to subdue the legislature, judiciary, the media, opposition members and those it feels makes it accountable.

“The party’s outburst against opposition parties did not come to us as a surprise. The APC has shown that it is pained by CUPP’s recent exposure of its plan to alter the seniority tradition of selecting Supreme Court justices who sit on presidential election appeal, hence the outburst.”

He added, “The attack by the APC is part of the party’s failed evil agenda to turn Nigeria to a one-party state and to get third term for President Muhamadu Buhari. We want the APC to know that this unwarranted attack will not deter us from continuing to expose all the evil plans of this government.

“We advise the party to forget this evil agenda because they will not materialise in Nigeria. They should stop their daydreaming.

“We also ask the party, since it claimed it has no opposition, to settle down and fix Nigeria. This is the least Nigerians expect from them. Or are they blaming their supposed lack of opposition as the cause of their woeful performance?”