Thugs attack Oshiomole’s house in Benin
Sunday Aborisade, Kamarudeen Ogundele and Sola Shittu

A group of youths suspected to be political thugs on Saturday attacked the house of the National Chairman of the All Progressive Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, in Okoroutun Government Reserved Area, in Benin City.

But the Commissioner of Police, Edo State Police Command, Danmallam Mohammed, told our correspondent on the telephone that the report of the attack was not true.

He said, “It is a lie. It is not true that there was an attack.”

But eyewitnesses told our correspondent that the suspected thugs gathered around the residence of Oshiomhole chanting songs to mock him.

The hoodlums, apparently waiting for him to come out of the house, stayed there for a long period before they were dispersed by security agents while they closed the road to traffic for some time before it was re-opened.

When our correspondent visited the area on Sunday, four police patrol vans had been dispatched there in addition to the ones that were always stationed in front the of the house.

Meanwhile, Oshiomhole, while addressing some youths who followed him to his house, said there was no cause to fear as he was in Benin to attend a ceremony and to have some rest.

He urged them to ensure that there was peace in the country and Edo State.

He said, “Anything that happens anywhere, they say it is the President; so we have to help him. We have to help to secure the whole country and in our state, we must be seen to be behaving well. If other people are beating the drums of war, we will share the powder of peace.

“In moments like this, it is not madness for madness because many of you I see here; in 2007, you were already strong in 2012 during my second term and you were there.

“In 2016, many of you were deployed as agents; I used to call you guys our infantry division which protected our votes even when we were in the opposition and the Peoples Democratic Party was in the Federal Government.

“Now that the APC is in the Federal Government, we have to take it easy so that there would no breach of the peace anywhere in Nigeria and particularly in our state.

“Those people who are looking for trouble are like a small mushroom; You don’t need to take a stick to destroy a mushroom. How far can a snail travel? If a snail is running, what is the maximum speed of a snail? Are you going to start running after a snail?”

Also the Chief of Staff to Governor Godwin Obaseki, Taiwo Akerele, alleged that he was attacked on Sunday by a chieftain of the APC, popularly known as Kabaka, in Protea Hotel during a meeting with some foreign investors.

But the Chief Press Secretary to Oshiomhole, Simon Ebegbulem, while confirming the incident to our correspondent on phone, alleged that the attackers were sent by Governor Godwin Obaseki who, he said, was desperate to get a second term as governor of the state.

Ebegbulem said, “Obaseki sent thugs to my Oga’s house in Benin yesterday night. They were in front of his house chanting “Oshiomole ole” (thief) waiting for him to come back because he was in Benin to attend a birthday party.”

However, the Special Adviser to Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, said the allegation against Obaseki was false.

Osagie in a statement on Sunday said he was not aware of such attack and that there was no information that Oshiomhole was even in town.

He said, “The Edo State Government has absolutely no knowledge of the purported attack on the person or the residence of former governor of the state who is now the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole.”

The Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege, in a statement condemned the attack, describing such as callous, cowardly, inhumane and totally unacceptable.

The All Progressives Congress in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu, urged the Inspector General of Police, Mohammad Adamu, and other security agencies to investigate the attack.

The party urged politicians to play by the rule.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]