Tribunal: Bello hails Melaye’s sacking, says APC’ll win rerun
Gbenga Odogun

Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello has commended Friday’s judgment of the Court of Appeal which upheld the earlier judgment of the Kogi State National Assembly Election Tribunal nullifying the Kogi West Senatorial election.

Bello said the judgment which went against Dino Melaye, vindicated his earlier position that the opposition Peoples Democratic Party manipulated the election.

In a statement titled, ‘Kogi West Appeal Court Verdict: Attestation that Judiciary is Impartial,’ by his Chief Press Secretary, Onogwu Muhammed, the governor said the September 23 tribunal’s judgment and Friday’s Court of Appeal’s verdict attested to the fact that the judiciary was working for the people.

The statement noted, “For upholding the petition by Senator Smart Adeyemi of the All Progressives Congress and ordering that a fresh election be conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission in the constituency, the tribunal, led by Justice AO Chijioke and the Appeal Court have jointly proved to the world that the people’s mandate was stolen in the last Kogi West Senatorial election.

“The courts did not decide in a vacuum but acted on the basis of the merits and demerits of the case before them.

“The Appeal Court and the entire judiciary, therefore, deserve our commendation for further strengthening the democratic and electioneering processes in Nigeria.”

Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress Campaign Council has said Bello would win the November 16 governorship election in the state.

The chairman of media and publicity of the campaign team, Kingsley Fanwo, said this was so due to the individuals who joined forces to support the governor.

In a statement on Saturday, Fanwo said with Adeyemi leading the campaign for Bello, in addition to the support of Mr James Faleke and other governorship aspirants, the incumbent would secure a win.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]