Bayelsa APC splits ahead of gov poll
Daniels Igoni

Two factions have emerged in the Bayelsa State chapter of the All Progressives Congress ahead of the November 16, 2019 governorship election in the state.

Already, the development has thrown the APC into confusion as the two factions are fighting dirty following the suspension and counter-suspension of chieftains of the party over allegations of gross misconduct and anti-party activities.

While one faction led by the state chairman of the APC, Jothan Amos, suspended five rival party stalwarts, the other controlled by the deputy chairman, Ogeibiri Orubebe, indefinitely suspended seven chieftains in Amos’ camp.

Both camps were said to have carried out the counter sanctions during separate meetings they held in Yenagoa on Thursday.

It was learnt that Amos’ camp was loyal to the former Governor of Bayelsa State and current Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, while Orubebe’s camp is controlled by ex-Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri.

Lokpobiri, who contested the APC governorship ticket, is in court challenging the outcome of the September 4, 2019 primary election won by Mr David Lyon – Sylva’s preferred choice.

Among the suspended five officials were the deputy chairman, Ogeibiri Orubebe; legal adviser, Chris Toborowei Olorogun; chairman, Ekeremor Local Government Area, Amasighan Azikiwe; secretary, Olorogun Isaac and Peter Bofini, chairman, Sagbama LGA.

The suspended seven included Jonathan Amos, state chairman; Martins Alabo, state secretary; Peres Oyadongha, Senatorial Youth Leader; Iniekenimi Senator Mitin, LGA Youth Leader Ekeremor; John Williams, LGA Organising Secretary Ekeremor; Osadebe Ezinrin, LGA Treasurer Ekeremor; and Lovely Agwor, LGA Organising Secretary, Sagbama.

Jothan claimed that the State Executive Committee of the APC slammed the five chieftains with the suspension based on a petition brought before it at an emergency meeting held at the party’s secretariat in Yenagoa.

He said the meeting resolved to sanction the affected persons because they were investigated and found culpable of allegations of gross misconduct and anti-party activities.

He noted that after the direct primary election that produced Lyon as the party’s candidate for the election, all members were expected to drop their interests.

Amos said the chieftains’ refusal to abandon the pursuit of their personal interest clearly indicated they were against the APC.

The Assistant Organising Secretary of the party, Tari Emberru, who raised the motion for their suspension, maintained that the consistent misconduct of the affected persons undermined the party’s unity.

He said their actions also disrespected constituted authority of the party, stressing that they should not be tolerated as they had been cautioned several times.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]