Tax increase without meaningful minimum wage not right – Prof Tella
In this interview with MUDIAGA AFFE, a professor of Economics at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State, Sherrifdeen Tella, speaks on the proposed 7.5 per cent Value Added Tax increase and other levy hikes, among others

What do you think will be the implications of the VAT increase from five per cent to 7.5 per cent that the Federal Government said would take effect from next year?

This VAT increase implies that it will enable the government to raise revenue. It is not all products that will be affected because the Federal Government has also listed some exempted items, but the Nigerian market where the people patronise are mainly in the informal sector, so, what will affect them will be the ones that are imposed on firms directly, which are manufactured goods. They can pass them to ordinary people through pricing, which means that prices of goods will rise and that will affect their consumption if there is not a steady level of income. It does not directly translate to revenue for the government. If people are not buying the goods where the prices have risen, the government will still not get that revenue, but if they are goods that people cannot do without, then the government will be able to raise a lot of revenue.

There is also a proposed nine per cent communication services tax that will make calls, SMS, data and cable TV services more expensive, what is the implication for the public?

The prices of those telecommunications services will automatically rise and that may not affect communication because Nigerians are used to making calls even when they do not have anything to say, they just want to greet someone. The imposition of such taxes will increase the rate of calls and other services and again, it will further boost the government’s revenue. Nigerians spend time talking and talking without actually considering the cost, so, such an increase will favour the government through that means.

But I think the Federal Government should have imposed VAT on those items that we consider as luxuries, either goods or services or that are usually patronised by well-to-do people. If they increase the tax on the flight tickets, for example, it will not affect the poor, it will only affect those who can afford to travel by air and most people that can afford flight tickets can also afford to pay 7.5 per cent. In most African countries, VATs started from 7.5 per cent long ago and in some instances, it could rise to 15 per cent. The problem we have in Nigeria is not the revenue per se; it is the outflow of capital – corruption – because it is not as if we do not have money, it is just that the money is being taken away through corruption and illegal outflow of capital. It is rather unfortunate.

The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, recently talked about the likely introduction of tollgates on federal roads across the country despite the horrible state of roads, what are your views on this?

They cannot put tollgates on roads that are not completed. In other countries, there are highways where you have to pay tolls and such monies are used to maintain the road, but it is not done on every road. More so, you cannot do that on roads that are incomplete and not highways. What happens in most cases is that the government has a relationship with the private sector in the construction of some roads and those who partner with the government under such circumstances will be the ones to manage such roads for some years.

So, it is not the government that is paying back but they (the contractors) will get their money back from the road users, but, however, the government will regulate the mode of the collection so that they do not abuse it. Look at the Lagos-Epe Expressway, for instance; it is about the same thing, you pay a toll. The road must be passable and of standard. There must be justification for wanting to impose such a toll. There should also be alternative routes that people can take if they do not want to pay the toll; you will find out that the so-called alternative routes could be longer. So all over the world, they normally charge rental fees on some roads but the road must be standard highways, not roads within the metropolis. The problem we had before was that people collected money and they diverted it, which was really bad.

Nigerians have also been told that electricity tariff will increase in 2020, even though the power supply is not reliable; how is this going to affect the public?

If everybody has a prepaid meter, you only pay for what you consume. If you do not have prepaid meter and you are still giving consumers crazy bills in the name of estimated billing, it will be very unfortunate. The issue of all these increments and depriving people of their minimum wage are not right. Even when we are talking about the increased minimum wage of N30, 000, it means N1, 000 per day and for someone who has children, there must be some relief.

What we suffer from is the corruption that the government has not been able to tame. Otherwise, there would have been enough money to do what we are talking about if there was no corruption but the inability to curtail it is what is bringing about all this hardship. Generally, people do not want to pay tax, you can see how some footballers are dragged to courts before they pay their taxes. But if people see that they are getting services for what they are paying for, they will not mind. The issue of raising tariffs should come if they are ready to supply electricity regularly and also ready to give us prepaid meters before they implement such an increase so that we can monitor what we consume, otherwise, it will be unfair. Prices are never static, they change from time to time because the cost of installation and maintenance also increases, but the fact remains that we must get good services to justify what we pay, not that they will just increase the tariff without the commensurate supply of electricity.

Negotiations over the implementation of the N30, 000 minimum wages for workers are still ongoing. Will its full implementation even have any meaningful impact on the well-being of the workers going by the increasing taxes here and there?

The N30, 000 is not much and it does not take account of the increases that we have experienced in the last few years. If they say they have agreed on N30, 000, for not paying it, you have created a situation that has led to price increase in goods and services – that is part of the problem that has been created. However, there is nothing wrong in starting with that N30, 000 minimum wage and paying it regularly.

When people are not paid appropriately, they engage in some activities that would affect their productivity because you see them doing what we refer to as moonlighting, which simply means doing other things as a part-time job. In that case, productivity is shared. One of the major problems in Nigeria is that the productivity of a worker is very low because a lot of people divert their energies to other ventures. Unfortunately, the government does not realise this, which is why they are playing games.

Closure of border and ban on rice importation have already been said to have led to the hike in prices of food items from between 40 to 100 per cent, especially rice, what should be done about it?

I do not support the idea of allowing the rice to come from anywhere. We should be able to grow rice in this country, unfortunately, in the northern part of the country; rice is grown and transported to other neighbouring countries. The problem that we are having now is hoarding and sabotage because people derive a lot of money from importation. When they import goods worth N10m, the country pays N20m for it. So, it is part of the ways by which illegal outflow occurs. So, if they like they can close the border for the next year, it is left for us (Nigerians) to decide whether we want to eat rice or find alternative food items.

And if we want to eat rice, the local producers will be encouraged to produce more because of the high demand and before you know it, the market will be flooded with local rice due to increased productivity. This will push down the price of rice. If you are observant, you would have noticed that it happens to garri (cassava flour) most of the time. The fact that we are not buying rice from other countries is good for us.

Don’t you think these tax policies will worsen the rate of poverty and hunger in the land?

Yes, initially it could worsen poverty but do not forget that the medium and long terms are better. If there is a high cost of goods, people might discover other agricultural products to consume and the focus of farmers will shift in that direction. It means items like rice will no longer be consumed daily anymore. But over time, when the price starts coming down, the prices of goods will reduce and people will start enjoying that. Initial poverty is always the case under the circumstance and there is nothing we can do about it. We cannot continue to waste money on imported food items. We have seen evidence of fake rubber rice being imported to the country in the name of imported rice. So, we should start producing the right things.

What should the government put in place, going forward?

Well, the government must encourage agricultural production. The problem is that they are always talking about giving support to agriculture but the money does not get to the farmers, even when such supports are in the form of fertilisers and other agricultural inputs. We have to start thinking of how to solve our problems ourselves. The government should find a way of increasing production by making sure that the subsidy they want to give on agriculture goes directly to those that are directly involved, not through middlemen. In the short run, we can suffer, but in the middle and long run, we would enjoy it.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]