Corps members won’t be used for Ekiti council polls —SIEC 
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Chairman, Ekiti State Independent Electoral Commission, Justice Jide Aladejana, said on Friday that the electoral body would not use National Youth Service Corps members as ad hoc staff for the Local Government elections billed for December in the state.

Aladejana said that rather, “Teachers and civil servants in the state would be engaged as ad hoc staff for the exercise across the 16 council areas.”

The SIEC boss, who spoke in Ado Ekiti during a sensitization meeting of the electoral body with other stakeholders including political parties, security agencies and orientation agencies, solicited the support of the political parties and other stakeholders towards the success of the elections.

He said, “SIEC had in the last few weeks visited many communities to seek the support of traditional rulers and as well sensitise members of the public on the need to ensure a free and fair exercise.”

READ ALSO: Flood sweeps 11-year-old boy, rescuer to death in Lagos

The Commissioner of Police in Ekiti State, Mr Asuquo Amba, in his address, cautioned the political class against violence, vote-buying and other acts capable of truncating the smooth conduct of the exercise.

Amba, who said politicians found engaging in unwholesome actions would be dealt with, assured voters and political parties that his men would be neutral and provide level playing ground for all contenders participating in the elections.

He said, “Let me commend SIEC for organising this meeting and other efforts made so far so that we can have free and fair polls. I call on politicians to intensify efforts and ensure that their members conduct themselves peacefully before, during and after the elections.

“We did it during the last presidential elections and we are still going to do it. We will play our role. We are not going to be biased, we will provide good atmosphere for free and fair elections.”

The police boss reiterated the readiness of the command to work with other sister agencies to ensure smooth conduct of the exercise.