My frequent foreign trips to source funds –Fayemi
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on Thursday, said his frequent trips out of the country were to ensure better life for the people of the state, especially in the face of paucity of funds.

Fayemi, who stated that he had good stories to tell from the trips, said, “God has answered our prayers. I have seen enormous resources to work on our rural roads.”

The governor spoke at Ikere Ekiti, the headquarters of Ekiti South Senatorial District, during a town hall meeting with representatives of all the six local governments in the district, to get their inputs into the 2020 budget.

The Peoples Democratic Party in the state had on October 1 accused the governor of not staying back in Ekiti State to attend to his primary responsibilities, advising that Fayemi should prioritise the people’s needs.

But Fayemi, while listing the gains of his trips, said all rural roads in the district and the state would be attended to under the World Bank’s Rural Access and Agricultural Marketing Project. He said, “State government officials and those of the World Bank have moved round the 16 local government areas and have looked at the roads.

“It is because I know I don’t have the resources to work on the roads that I have been looking for funds. There is no community that will not benefit in the RAAMP rural roads project.”

READ ALSO: 281 ex-Boko Haram fighters underwent spiritual counselling –DHQ

Fayemi also disclosed that the World Bank had given him funds “to tackle the flood menace and work on the waterways.”

The governor expressed confidence that the work on Ogbese Dam, which residents had blamed for the flooding of Ogbese Bridge along Ikere-Ise Road, would be completed soon.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]