Obaseki plans to abandon APC, says aspirant
Sola Shittu, Benin

A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Edo State, Maj. Gen. Charles Airhiavbere (retd.), on Thursday alleged that Governor Godwin Obaseki planned to abandon the ruling party in the state.

Airhiavbere, who is a former APC governorship aspirant, alleged that Obaseki plotted to abandon the party and seek his second-term bid with another party after realising that it would be difficult to get the ticket because of the way he has handled the party.

The APC chieftain, who spoke to journalists, said the crisis rocking the ruling party became obvious after the presidential election, when the party lost in Edo South and Edo Central.

He said, “After that loss, the party realised that it needed the massive win from Edo North for President Muhammadu Buhari to scale through in the state.”

Aihriavbere said the incompetence of Obaseki was responsible for his falling out with the leaders of the party including his predecessor, Adams Oshiomhole.

He said “The presidential election in February gave an account of the APC political instability in the state; during that election we lost in Edo South, we lost in Edo Central, only Edo North produced the percentage that was required for the president to scale through Edo State and that was the beginning of the problems of the APC coming to the public. It became clear that if we don’t do something quickly, there will be problem.”

But Obaseki’s Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, described the allegation as a lie from the pit of hell.

READ ALSO: Oyo assembly okays Makinde’s N7.6bn loan request

He added, “He (Obaseki) is performing. He is the leader of the party. He controls the party, so who will he leave the party for? That allegation is a complete lie from the pit of hell. Governor Godwin Obaseki has a very robust relationship with the presidency and his party at the centre.

“His party is the ruling party in the state and at the centre, so where is he leaving to and why should he leave? The good records of Obaseki cannot be compared to that of Airhiavbere. Obaseki contested for election once and he won.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]