APC banking on fraud to win Bayelsa poll –Dickson
Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa

The Bayelsa State Governor, Mr Seriake Dickson, has reiterated his stance that the All Progressives Congress lacks the political structure and presence to win the forthcoming November 16 governorship election.

According to Dickson, the APC is banking on electoral fraud through collusion with the Independent National Electoral Commission and the security forces to harass and intimidate voters.

The governor stated this in Yenagoa, while inaugurating the Peoples Democratic Party Grassroots Movement from Brass and Yenagoa local government areas of the state, on Tuesday, a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Fidelis Soriwei, said.

He alleged that the APC was putting its hope on luring members of the PDP to its fold with money and fake promises.

Dickson, who had earlier received a former caretaker committee chairman of the Ekeremor Local Government Area, Mr Tolu Amatu, who returned from the APC to the PDP, urged party faithful and the electorate not to be deceived by the antics of the opposition.

According to him, the APC is torn apart by unaddressed grievances from the party’s primary, which have made the original founders of the party in the state to stay away from the party and its candidate, David Lyon.

He said it was quite interesting that the APC opted to field a candidate, “who lacks the experience and capacity to articulate issues of governance” against the PDP standard-bearer, Senator Douye Diri, and his running mate, Senator Lawrence Ewhrujakpo, who he said were tested and experienced with exemplary records in public service.

The governor stated that the PDP detested violence and expressed confidence that his party would sweep the poll.

When contacted, the state Publicity Secretary of the APC, Mr Doifie Buokoribo, said “we will respond,” but had yet to do so as of the time of filing this report.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]