We’ll obey ruling disqualifying SDP, says INEC
Gbenga Odogun ,Lokoja

The Independent National Electoral Commission has said it will abide by the decision of the court on the disqualification of the governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party, Natasha Akpoti.

INEC Commissioner and Chairman, Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, while speaking on Wednesday at a workshop for journalists covering the forthcoming governorship election in Kogi State, said since the SDP had gone to court to challenge the decision of the commission, it would wait patiently for the court to make pronouncements on the validity of their decision.

“As a law-abiding legal entity, who derived our power from the constitution of the land, we will abide by decision of court over the issue,” he said.

The commission had last week announced the disqualification of Akpoti from contesting the November 16 governorship election on account of invalid nomination of the deputy governorship candidate, saying he was underage.

But Okoye wondered why it was “only in Kogi State that people read meaning to every action taken,” adding that a similar disqualification happened in Bayelsa, where another candidate was disqualified due to an age-related offence on the part of a deputy governorship candidate.

He however stated that whatever the outcome of the court process, it would not affect the conduct of the election as the commission had all it took in terms of logistics, including contingency plans, to ensure smooth conduct of the election.

The INEC commissioner said the electoral body had also done everything possible to make sure that the smart card readers did not malfunction on election day, adding that the use of card readers would be enforced to the letter.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]