Ondo APC sets up panel to support Bello
Peter Dada, Akure

Few weeks to the forthcoming governorship election in Kogi State, the All Progressives Congress in Ondo State, said it would set up a committee that would work for Governor Yahaya Bello to win his re-election bid.

The Chairman of the party in Ondo State, Mr Ade Adetimehin, said the party would join hands with the Kogi State chapter to ensure victory for the party.

Adetimehin stated this during a meeting between the APC’s State Working Committee and leaders of the Igbo, Hausa, and Ibira communities in the state, at the state party secretariat in Akure, Ondo State, on Wednesday.

Adetimehin said, “The state would constitute a comprehensive committee of members from the State Executive Committee, and representatives of the various communities in the state that will join our brethren in Kogi State.

“The entire duty of the committee is to boost the morale of the party members in Kogi, work assiduously with them to retain the state for our dear party.”

The party chairman, who assured the non-indigenes that they would be carried along in the scheme of things, said the APC-controlled government had given a sense of belonging to them.

He added, “Appointing special assistants to Mr Governor from all the communities, appointing supervisors and executive members of the party are all done to promote oneness.

“There can’t be us without you; you are very important to us. I urge all to imbibe the culture of always defending the good image of this party; let us not destroy ourselves behind each other.”

He said the Ondo APC regarded the non-indigenes as fellow citizens of Nigeria and the state, adding that “we feel you are entitled to whatever benefits available.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]