Lalong appoints new LG caretaker committees, PDP kicks
James Abraham, Jos

One year after Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State excluded four local government areas during the conduct of the state’s October 10, 2018 council election and appointed caretaker committees to run the affairs of the affected council areas, the governor on Wednesday swore in a new set of committees to continue to oversee the council areas.

The governor also swore in the PDP chairmanship candidate for Langtang North Local Government Area, Mr Joshua Ubandoma-Laven, in line with an appeal tribunal, which sacked an APC candidate earlier declared winner by the state independent electoral commission.

In excluding the four council areas of Jos North, Jos South, Barkin Ladi and Riyom local government areas during the poll, Lalong had blamed the security situation in the affected councils, which he said necessitated the setting up of management committees to run the affairs of the LGAs, “pending the improvement of security for elections to hold in these places.”

But the PDP on Wednesday rejected the governor’s explanation, describing his action as undemocratic and illegal.

The PDP spokesman, Mr John Akans, in a statement, advised Lalong and the leadership of the APC and the Plateau State Independent Electoral Commission to maintain the current peaceful and persevering nature of the people by conducting elections in the four council areas without delay.

Akans said, “As a party that believes in the rule of law and also that represents the interest and mandates of majority votes on the plateau, we are on this note sending very strong words of caution to PLASIEC, the APC and the state government that any undemocratic act of illegality and injustice will face appropriate resistance from the people of Plateau State.

“This illegal act will no longer be tolerated by the people, as they have had enough of this oppression by ungodly minds, which are filled with ungodly values by an architect of injustice in leadership position.

“We therefore at this point make it clear that anything short of the rule of engagement and due process from the APC-led government in this regard will not only be vehemently rejected but will be fought to a standstill.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]