NDDC still runs 2018 budget, Reps panel alleges
Leke Baiyewu, Abuja

The House of Representatives’ Committee on Niger Delta Development Commission, on Wednesday, alleged that the commission was still operating the 2018 Appropriation Act.

The Chairman of the House Committee on NDDC, Mr Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, made the allegation at the inaugural sitting of the panel.

According to Tunji-Ojo, the NDDC has yet to present its budget 2019 budget to the lawmakers for approval.

He said, “As we speak, the commission has yet to submit its 2019 appropriation to the National Assembly for approval in line with the Act that sets it up, let alone the 2020 budget.

““Today is October 9; the commission has yet to bring the budget for the 2019 fiscal year, let alone the 2020 budget, of which Mr President submitted before the Assembly on Tuesday. What has the commission been operating with?”

The lawmaker stated that the NDDC must present its budget to the National Assembly for consideration and passage.

The lawmaker also decried the non-remittance of statutory contributions by the development partners of the NDDC.

He said, “As of June 2019, outstanding remittances of oil companies and gas processing companies stand at N1.2tn. The Federal Government on its part has an outstanding of over N1.5tn. The Ecological Fund Office has never remitted any money and the commission has accumulated debts to the tune of over N1tn.”

Meanwhile, the House Committee on Petroleum Resources (Downstream) has stated its commitment towards developing the downstream of the petroleum sector.

The Chairman of the committee, Mr Abdullahi Gaya, who stated this at the inaugural meeting of the panel on Wednesday, said, “We will operate a transparent leadership with an open-door policy that is democratic in nature, where every member will be carried along and individual’s useful ideas and information harmonised and harnessed, to produce a strong committee force that will elevate the sector to a more prosperous fortune for a better Nigeria.”

In a related development, the House of Representatives condemned the continued closure of the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, without the planned rehabilitation of the facility.

Following a motion moved by members of the House from the South-East geopolitical zone at plenary on Wednesday, the lower chamber of the National Assembly called for the intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari for an immediate resumption of repair works on the airport.

The Minority Whip of the House, Toby Okechukwu, who is one of the 14 sponsors, recalled that on August 24, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria closed down the airport for rehabilitation works of the runway.

Okechukwu said, “The House is alarmed that six weeks after the closure of the airport, no rehabilitation or reconstruction work has begun. The major arterial routes leading to other alternate airports leading to the South-East have become dilapidated and a burden on the travelling public.”

The lawmakers unanimously resolved to “call on Mr President to intervene and ensure immediate commencement of work at the airport.”

Also, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs has stated that it will work towards ensuring protecting the dignity, life and property of Nigerians in other countries.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]