Kogi NGO deploys 200 PLWD as observers
No fewer than 200 persons leaving with disabilities will be deployed as election observers in the forthcoming governorship poll in Kogi State slated for November 16, according to a non-governmental organisation, the National Democratic Institute.

The Deputy Country Director, NDI, Raymond Esebagbon, stated this on Wednesday, when the Challenge Parenthood Initiative paid the Secretary to the Kogi State Government, Mrs Folashade Ayoade, an advocacy visit on the need to stop violence against women in election and to ensure more women participation in the polls.

Esebagbon, in his remarks, noted that the goals would be accomplished in collaboration with other NGOs, including NDI, CPI, Inclusive Friends Associate, United States Agency for International Development and the Centre for Democracy and Development.

The NDI boss, while noting that his organisation had over the years continued to support good governance in the country, stressed that the injection of people with disabilities into the election process would promote inclusiveness in the system.

He maintained that one of the goals of the organisation was to ensure that more women and youths participated in politics just as he emphasised that the group was committed to support issue-based campaign and combat fake news before, during and after the polls.

Esebagbon said, “As part of efforts to drive home this campaign towards achieving a violence-free election in the state, a veteran musician 2Face will be in Kogi State next week to sensitise voters on the need for a hitch-free election.”

According to him, about seven states, including Kaduna, Kano, Jigawa, Adamawa, Lagos, Anambra and Enugu have keyed into the campaign to stop violence against women in elections.

Esebagbon, who commended Governor Yahaya Bello for appointing more women in his cabinet since the state was created 28 years ago, said the campaign would not yield fruit if the government failed to show support.

He, however, listed health, education, job creation, public and civil service reform, and infrastructural development as some of the primary thematic areas that the government should look into if it must succeed in the state.

In her response, Ayoade, while describing the state as a confluence of opportunity, noted that the incumbent administration was determined to leave a legacy that would not be forgotten in the country.

She said, “We inherited a government where some politicians put their six-year-old children on the payroll. We have cases of people that came with fake certificates, falsification of age, and study leave for more than seven years. In the first four years, the governor was not ready to play politics.

“The governor is mindful of what will not cause violence in the state. He is the youngest governor and he will always kick against it. He so much believes in women. In the last 28 years, this government has the most women.

“The SSG, Head of Service, the Director-General of Land and Housing, Public Procurement, and among all 229 ward assistants in Kogi are women.”

According to her, since the present government officially kicked off on January 27, 2016, the governor has always kicked against violence in the state despite “negative utterances” from the opposition.

The SSG, while calling for peace among the electorate during and after the poll, said women and children were more vulnerable in cases of violence.

Ayoade added, “On our side, we are not training thugs but voters who will use their permanent voter cards. Members of the BoT of the PDP are joining hands with the governor to see his re-election.

“We already know that we are winning this election, so there is no need for a ‘do-or-die’ affair. We are not ready for any form of violence on the side of the APC and we are not ready to condone any form of violence.”

Earlier in her remarks, the Executive Director, CPI, Eunice Abimbola, noted that the organisation had trained 63 local government observers on violence against women during election stressing that women, over the years, had been marginalised in the country.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]