Stakeholders make case for blind, albino voters
Friday Olokor, Abuja

Stakeholders have urged the Independent National Electoral Commission to provide magnifying glasses for voters with impaired vision and albinism in the November 16 polls in Bayelsa and Kogi states.

According to them, the items are necessary to ensure that those members of the electorate vote without difficulties.

The stakeholders at the fourth quarterly roundtables on inclusive elections in Nigeria also resolved that INEC should engage with printers and producers of the Braille ballot guide and commence production on time to ensure that Braille ballot guide dimensions matched the ballot papers to ensure successful use of the guides during the two off-season polls.

The resolutions were part of a communiqué obtained by The PUNCH on Monday and issued at the event organised in Abuja by Access Nigeria Campaign in conjunction with the Joint National Association of Persons with Disabilities, Organisations of Persons with Disabilities.

The communiqué was signed by the Executive Director of Inclusive Friends Association and Convener, ANC, Grace Jerry; President, National Association of the Blind, Isiyaku Adamu; Chair, Disabled Peoples International (African Region), Ekaete Umoh; and President, Network for the Advancement of People with Visible Disabilities, Melody Omosah.

Other signatories to the communiqué were Resident Electoral Commissioner in Bayelsa State, Monday Udo Tom; Resident Electoral Commissioner in Kogi State, Prof. James Apam; INEC National Commissioner and Chairman (Outreach and Partnerships Committee), Dr. Adekunle Ogunmola; INEC National Commissioner and Chair Health and Welfare Committee, Hajiya Amina Zakari and Deputy Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Electoral Matters, Tijani Ismail.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]