BMO, PDP clash over Jonathan’s Chibok girls’ inaction
Success Nwogu and Kamarudeen Ogundele

The Chairman, Board of Trustees of the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Walid Jibrin, on Monday, urged the All Progressives Congress to stop attacking former President Goodluck Jonathan.

A former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, David Cameron, in his recently published memoir, ‘For the Record’, had accused Jonathan of “sleeping on the wheel,” while terrorists were busy abducting the Chibok schoolgirls.

Jonathan, in his response, countered Cameron and insisted that his government sought help from the UK, the United States and Israel and engaged in other security measures to rescue the girls.

He also denied that his government was corrupt.

However, the APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, in a statement, accused Jonathan’s government and the PDP of negligence over the rescue of the schoolgirls.

But the PDP BoT chairman, in a statement, urged the APC to leave Jonathan alone, adding that the former president, by conceding defeat to President Muhammadu Buhari, who was the APC presidential candidate in 2015, saved Nigeria from calamity.

Jibrin said, “Jonathan saved Nigeria by conceding defeat in 2015 and therefore should be praised and never be disgraced by anyone. Jonathan and Mrs Patience Jonathan should be saved of any blame.

“The former British prime minister has taken the matter too far in his book. The Nigerian insecurity problems are serious to single out one particular individual for blame.”

But the Buhari Media Organisation said the rejection of foreign help to rescue the abducted Chibok girls by Jonathan reflected the nonchalance and irresponsibility that brought Nigeria into the mess the country found itself.

The BMO asked the former president to apologise to the nation and stop grandstanding on an issue where he was indeed caught sleeping at the wheel.

Its Chairman, Niyi Akinsiju, and Secretary, Cassidy Madueke, in a statement, stated that history would judge Jonathan for allegedly treating governance as a matter of ego, without respect for lives and property, as well as his disservice to Nigeria.

READ ALSO: Labour demands minimum wage payment implementation

The statement said, “What other proof do Nigerians need to know that if Jonathan had been allowed an extra week in power, the country would have been in a worse state than Venezuela?

“Nigerians must appreciate the rescue mission embarked upon by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration in the last four years. The country was a mess; governance was on auto-pilot with a President who was lukewarm towards his duties.

“The revelation by Cameron in his book shows how the country was being managed by an incoherent leadership intent on driving her to either a deliberate or an irresponsible crash and wreckage.

“Which sensible President and leader would ever miss.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]