Tribunal upholds Ortom, Mohammed’s elections
John Charles and Armstrong Bakam

The Bauchi and Benue state election petitions tribunals have upheld the elections of Senator Bala Mohammed and Samuel Ortom as the duly elected governors of the states.

In Bauchi, former governor Mohammed Abubakar and the All Progressive Congress had filed a petition at the tribunal challenging the declaration of Mohammed as the duly elected governor of the state.

The first, second and third respondents are the Independent National Electoral Commission, Mohammed and the Peoples Democratic Party, respectively.

The petitioners had prayed the tribunal to set aside the election of Mohammed, alleging that it was marred by corrupt practices.

They also asserted that Mohammed was not duly elected by the majority of lawful votes cast during the election.

But in his over six hours lead judgment, Chairman of the tribunal, Justice Salihu Shuaibu, on Monday struck out the suit for lack of merit for failure to prove their case beyond a reasonable doubt.

Shuaibu said, “The election of Senator Bala Mohammed as the Governor of Bauchi State is valid as declared by the first respondent (INEC). He was duly elected by a majority of lawful votes scored in the election.”

In Benue State, the tribunal on Monday upheld the election of Ortom.

The candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Emmanuel Jime, and his party had challenged the election of the PDP candidate, on the grounds that the election was marred by irregularities.

Jime in his petition further alleged that the governor was not duly elected by lawful votes, maintaining that he(Jime) scored the highest number of valid votes and as such, should be declared the winner of the election or, order be made for a fresh election.

In a nine-hour judgement, the Chairman of the tribunal, Justice Henry Olusiyi, held that the petitioner’s witness statements were contradictory, unreliable and incredible.

“We are satisfied that the result sheet presented to us by INEC is a true representation of votes cast in the election.

“We find no merit whatsoever in the petition. We hold that the election of Governor Samuel Ortom by INEC is affirmed,” Justice Olusiyi said in the judgment.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]