SDP candidate denies stepping down for Bello
Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja

The governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party in Kogi State, Natasha Akpoti, has denied stepping down for the state governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello.

Akpoti made her position known in a statement made available to journalists in Lokoja, the state capital, by the spokesman of her campaign organisation, Odaudu Joel, on Tuesday.

She attributed the rumour of her stepping down to those she described as her detractors.

She said those behind the rumour were only out to deceive unsuspecting members of the public.

The statement read, “We wish to state categorically that Natasha Akpoti is a woman of high moral standards and she has no reason to indulge in any clandestine concession with incumbent Governor Yahaya Bello and the so-called cabal in Aso Rock.

“She will never betray the trust and faith of the good people of Kogi State who have been rooting for her.

“On no condition will Natasha Akpoti ever turn her back on the people to whom she has sworn to provide good governance and liberate from maladministration in Kogi State, a status quo symmetrical with a quicksand which the suffering masses have been grappling so hard to wriggle out from.

“We reiterate that the candidacy of Natasha Akpoti is not a negotiable enterprise to be traded to the same elements that she is trying to liberate the impoverished and weary people of Kogi State from.

“We hereby call on the online community and the general public to disregard the poorly manufactured lies being spread by the APC-sponsored media mercenaries with their prevaricating hanging tongues.

“Natasha Akpoti is in the Kogi governorship race to win and she will never sell her conscience.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]