JUST IN: Appeal dismisses Akinlade’s petition against Abiodun 
Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta

The Court of Appeal sitting in Ibadan, Oyo State, on Monday, dismissed the petition filed by the governorship candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement in Ogun State, Adekunle Akinlade.

Akinlade filed the petition against the victory of the governor of the state and candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Dapo Abiodun in the last governorship election in the state.

In a unanimous decision, the Appeal court justices said the appeal “lacks merit and it is therefore struck out.”

Reading the lead judgment, Justice Muhammed Ambi-Usi Danjuma declared that the 10 grounds filed by the Akinlade and his party challenging the victory of Abiodun have no merits and that the two appellants were overruled because of lack of merit.

READ ALSO: Buhari mourns David-West

The judgement read inter alia “The respective objections raised by the two respondents are overruled and the emotions have no remit, answers to them are sustained and the two motions are dismissed.”

Reacting to the judgement, the state chairman of the APC, Yemi Sanusi said, “The judgment says it all, in this part of the world, nobody accepts defeat. We will not be surprised if they move from here to the Supreme Court and we are ready; anytime they want to see us, they will meet us there.”

Reacting to the judgment, counsel to the APC and Abiodun, Habeeb Ajayi, appreciated the court for delivering the judgment in good time, saying that the judgment has shown that Abiodun is the governor of the state by lawful votes.

Ajayi added that all the complaints about non-qualification as a result of delivering false affidavit was not applicable and allegations were seen to be frivolous by the court.

He said “We must appreciate the court for delivering the judgment in good time. Elections have been held and a winner emerged and we must learn to accept defeat in all circumstances.

“There was no reason we should be in this appeal. But thank God the court of appeal has delivered its judgment in favour of the respondent and have equally confirmed that Prince Dapo Abiodun is the governor of Ogun State by lawful votes.

“That all the complaints about non-qualification as a result of delivering false affidavit are not applicable, in other words, those allegations are frivolous and the court has so passed.”

The Director General, Dapo Abiodun Campaign Organisation and former deputy governor of Ogun State, Segun Adesegun disclosed that the election was one that was well fought for by the people.

Adesegun added that with the court judgment, the governor who has started well will now be more relaxed to do the job of governance better.

The Speaker, Ogun State House of Assembly, Olakunle Oluomo noted that the judiciary has played its role the way it should be played, adding that the judgment will aid the governor to continue with the good work it has started in the state.