Dickson cautions INEC, security agencies at PDP campaign
Oladimeji Ramon and Daniels Igoni

The Peoples Democratic Party in Bayelsa State on Monday commenced its campaigns for the governorship election in the state scheduled for November 16.

Speaking at the event, which held at the Ox-bow Lake Pavilion in Yenagoa, Governor Seriake Dickson said the PDP would win the election based on its achievements and performance in governance, which had made the party popular among the Ijaw people.

He also said the party’s governorship candidate, Senator Douye Diri, had garnered requisite experience in government to take over the mantle of leadership and continue with the great strides that PDP was known for in the state.

Dickson cautioned the Independent National Electoral Commission and the security agencies against lending themselves as willing tools of manipulation to the All Progressives Congress.

He said the PDP and the people would not accept manipulation of the electoral proces, acts of intimidation and harassment of voters.

Dickson said, “Let me caution INEC and the security agencies. If you are brought here to intimidate and to kill, you have to do so much work because there are thousands and thousands of people to be maimed and to be killed.”

The PDP governorship candidate, Senator Diri, expressed appreciation to the people for always standing by the party since 1999 and promised not to disappoint them and the state.

Meanwhile, youth leaders from the Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of Bayelsa State have declared their support for the PDP candidate, Diri.

The governorship candidate of the APC for the election, Chief David Lyon, hails from the Southern Ijaw Local government Area.

But 250 youth presidents and 500 youth leaders of the Southern Ijaw community said they were queuing behind the PDP candidate because of the performance of the incumbent governor in office.

A statement by the governor’s media aide, Fidelis Soriwei, quoted one of the youth leaders, Salvation Ayawei, as saying that Dickson’s government “had brought peace, stability, light and all it takes to make life meaningful to us.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]