Chibok girls: Insults directed at Jonathan, best for Buhari —PDP
The Peoples Democratic Party has said that the invective directed at former Nigerian president, Goodluck Jonathan by the All Progressives Congress was bet suited for President Muhammadu Buhari.

Jonathan had been under fire for his alleged refusal of foreign help in the rescue of Chibok girls.

In his book, For The Records, former UK Prime Minister, David Cameron had said that Jonathan, who was in office, as of the time over 200 girls were abducted from a school in Chibok had refused the help of the British security agencies in the rescue of the girls.

He said that Jonathan was “asleep at the wheels.”

READ ALSO: Chibok: Jonathan can’t deny rejecting Britain’s help, corruption -APC

In reaction, Jonathan had denounced the claim of the former PM and said that Cameron was against him signing the anti-gay bill into law.

The APC had accused Jonathan of being ‘habitual negligence” as regards issues to do with the state while in government.

In a statement signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu, APC said, “Nigerians already know the story of Jonathan’s habitual negligence to matters of state.

“The Chibok schoolgirls abduction and his “sleeping behind the wheel” is not a story to deny as it is already part of our national history. We may disagree on a number of issues in Nigeria, but there is a national consensus on the fact that PDP elevated corruption to a national culture.”

In a retaliatory statement, the PDP said that the insults heaped on the former president and the opposition party were better suited to the current administration.

In a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP said, “The PDP says the APC’s unwarranted invective on former President Goodluck Jonathan was misdirected as it best suits President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC administration, which has gone down as the most incompetent and most corrupt in the history of our nation.

“The party says the distortions and groundless attack on President Jonathan is a desperate tactic by the APC and the Buhari Presidency to divert public attention from the recent shocking corruption and fraud revelations in which close relatives and confidants of Mr President are mentioned.

“Our party has equally been made aware of how the APC and the Buhari Presidency have been desperate to divert public attention from the administration’s obnoxious decision to further oppress Nigerians by reintroducing tollgates on our highway, increasing Value Added Tax (VAT), electricity bill and other tariffs as well as their despicable plot to sack government workers.

“The PDP charges the APC and the Buhari Presidency to perish the idea of thinking that this unnecessary distortion on the Jonathan administration would bury the demand for an inquest into the racket through which billions of naira meant for the wellbeing of Nigerians are allegedly being diverted to private purses.

“The PDP invites Nigerians to note how the APC had remained silent since revelations that its key leaders and the cabal at the Presidency are involved in the stealing of over N14 trillion meant for the wellbeing of Nigerians.”