Gov poll: Kogi PDP cautions Bello, APC against ‘ethnic politics’
Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja

The Peoples Democratic Party has cautioned the All Progressives Congress to desist from playing the ethnic card in the build-up to the governorship election in Kogi State.

PDP also warned against the alleged recourse to violence by the ruling party in the state.

In a statement issued in Lokoja on Monday by the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP said that the ongoing attempts by the APC to bring ethnic colouration to the November 16th governorship election were dead on arrival.

Ologbondiyan urged Governor Bello to get ready for his electoral defeat as he reportedly has an empty scorecard despite the over billions he allegedly collected on behalf of the Kogi State people from the federation account, internally generated revenue, bailout funds, ecological funds, infrastructural development funds and others.

READ ALSO: FG redeploys 254 senior officials, Senate begins agencies merger

He described the APC administration under Bello as a complete failure and an embarrassment to the people of the state who are known in the country and beyond for their integrity and industry in all areas of human endeavours.

Ologbondiyan said, “The people of Kogi state have suffered enough under Governor Yahaya Bello and the APC. Many of our citizens have lost their loved ones and their breadwinners; they have lost husbands, wives children and other loved ones to the excruciating hardship caused by non-payment of their salary and pensions by Governor Bello. There is no way he can be re-elected.”

Ologbondiyan assured citizens of the state that the issues of non-payment of salaries, allowances and pensions would become a thing of the past under a PDP-led administration.

He, therefore, urged the electorate to remain firm and resolute in their standing with the PDP governorship candidate, Engr Musa Wada, in the collective quest to rescue the state from “anti-people forces.”

The Kogi State governorship election is scheduled to hold on November 16.