As National Assembly launches belated probe to unravel P&ID mess
A 2010 contract that went awry between the Federal Government and an Irish engineering firm, Processing and Industrial Development Limited, has now become a hard nut to crack, writes MUDIAGA AFFE

The $9.6bn United Kingdom Business and Property Courts award in favour of Process & Industrial Development, an Irish engineering firm, against the Federal Government jolted Nigerians. This was so because before the money was awarded to the company in the UK, the matter was never discussed in the public space in Nigeria.

If implemented, the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, said the consequences would be unpleasant for Nigerians as the amount was about 20 per cent of the country’s foreign reserves.

The P&ID had on January 11, 2010, signed a definitive agreement with the Federal Ministry of Petroleum for accelerated gas development in OML 123 and 67 for a period of 20 years. The Irish firm was specially tasked with ending hazardous incineration of Nigeria’s abundant gas supply by processing it for home and industrial use, but, somehow, there was an alleged breach in the implementation process.

Following the breach, the court, in August 2019 granted the Irish firm’s request to enforce a 2013 award against Nigeria by a three-member arbitration tribunal. The tribunal relied on the Arbitration Act 1996 (England and Wales) and the Nigerian Arbitration and Conciliation Act 2004.

Between 2010 and 2018, there were alleged several breaches that culminated in the award by the UK arbitration court. The award was said to be the value of a 20-year income that P&ID would have generated from selling Natural Gas Liquid, excluding the capital and other operating expenditures that the company would have incurred in the course of building and running the facility.

From the administration of Dr Goodluck Jonathan to the current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, there had been a lackadaisical approach to the matter until it became obvious that the unpatriotic act of a few government officials had thrown Nigeria into a $9.6bn arbitration liability.

It was reported that Jonathan’s administration negotiated the $850m settlement deal with P&ID, but deferred payment to Buhari’s administration.

The Irish engineering firm was said to have taken advantage of so many loosed ends in active collaboration with top officials of the Nigerian government as revealed by investigations by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and other investigative committees set up by the National Assembly to look into the matter.

Coming belatedly, the Senate recently resolved to invite the Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Mr Abubakar Malami, over the matter. This followed a motion brought before it under Matters of Urgent National Importance by Senator Opeyemi Bamidele.

In the same vein, the House of Representatives also resolved to invite Malami and Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, for questioning. The move followed the adoption of a motion moved by Julius Ihonvbere.

The EFCC had earlier on September 19 secured the conviction of the Commercial Director of P&ID, Mohammed Kuchazi, and the company’s Director of Process, Adamu Usman, on 11counts bordering on obtaining by false pretence; dealing in petroleum products without appropriate license; money laundering and failure to register P&ID with the Special Control Unit against Money Laundering as required by law, amounting to economic sabotage against the Nigerian state.

On September 17, the EFCC grilled a former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Alfa Belgore, in connection with the $9.6bn award against the Federal Government. Also quizzed by the anti-graft agency regarding the P&ID matter was the Deputy Manager, Mechanical/Facilities of the National Petroleum Investment Management Services, Gbolahan Okesanya, and 10 others.

Following the renewed appeal by the Federal Government, Justice Christopher Butcher of the Commercial Court in London on September 26 granted Nigeria’s request for a stay of execution of the enforcement of the $9.6bn arbitral award pending the Federal Government’s appeal. In granting the stay conditionally, the judge ordered Nigeria to make a $200m security payment into its account within 60 days, but the Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, said the Federal Government will appeal against the $200m security payment.

Belatedly angered by the ongoing imbroglio, President Buhari had during his 59th Independence Day speech condemned the Federal Government officials who masterminded the tricky gas processing contract with P&ID.

Going forward, the President said the executive was collaborating with the legislative arm of government to ensure that no public official got away with similar criminal acts and unpatriotic tendencies.

Buhari said, “The P&ID arbitral award has underscored how significant economic damage has been caused by the past activities of a few corrupt and unpatriotic Nigerians.

“Our renewed partnership with the 9th National Assembly will facilitate the swift passage of enabling laws that will institutionalise these anti-corruption efforts in our criminal justice system.”

The Federal Government is presently taking steps to appeal against the matter, but analysts blamed the government for the delay in addressing the issues and were quick to add that the reports by the various committees and panels set up to investigate the matter in Nigeria would assist the country to fight the matter in the UK court.

A professor of Economics at the Olabisi Onabanjo University in Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State, Sherrifdeen Tella, said it was important for each segment to have its report to strengthen the court processes.

“If we have reports from different segments and they are all saying the same thing, or one can get facts that others are not able to get, it will strengthen the hands of those who are going to defend us in the court. The court process will still take a long time; it will not be a one-off thing.

“I had expected many Senior Advocates of Nigeria to turn up at the UK court to represent the country. This is a national issue and I expect many senior lawyers to come out to show nationalism that our country cannot be robbed this way. However, we need all sorts of reports to assist us in developing a solid defence to fight the case,” he said.

On the Federal Government’s negligence on the issue over the years, Tella said, “The fact is that people in government always think that they are the only ones that know what to do whereas there are things you must allow other experts to look at. If the government has an interest in any foreign contract of such magnitude, it should get inputs from experts, in the form of consultancy, to look at some critical areas.

“Many government officials in ministries are not experts or not deep in the area of negotiating contractual agreements; they just do things shoddily, whereas there will be some details not spotted which may have implications. Get external consultants to look at the nitty-gritty of the matter. I am sure some of the government officials allowed this to pass because of their greed and that is what we must prevent in this country. People must be nationalistic in their approach.

“If this judgement is implemented, the implication will be grave for Nigeria because we are talking about several assets being confiscated and it is a serious matter because it will have a negative effect on our revenue because there will be a shortfall. External negotiation outside the court should also be explored.”

An anti-corruption group, Human and Environmental Development Agenda, has called for the sanction of Justice Alfa Belgore for his alleged role in the $9.6bn fine imposed on Nigeria by the UK court. The group, in a statement on Wednesday by its Chairman, Mr Olanrewaju Suraju, said the former CJN should be prosecuted by the Code of Conduct Bureau before the Code of Conduct Tribunal for violating Section 5 of the Constitution.

HEDA said by providing supporting evidence for P&ID and proffering the expert advice for the Irish company, the former CJN violated the provisions of the Constitution and also put asunder Nigeria’s strategic national interests. It, therefore, urged the Federal Government to probe the incidence to establish whether Belgore’s action was for personal gains.

A Lagos-based Public Affairs Analyst, Prof Femi Otubanjo, however, described the investigation by the National Assembly as “medicine after death”, but was quick to add that the “medicine” was necessary.

“Quite honestly, the National Assembly’s role in trying to set up some form of inquiry into this very serious matter might be described as “medicine after death”, but it is necessary medicine. The National Assembly is not going to have an impact on the proceedings of the arbitration in the UK, but the instrument of its role is to understand the issues involved to identify those who adversely or negligently put Nigeria in this conundrum.

“Ultimately, the purpose of what the National Assembly and other agencies are doing is serving as a deterrent which is the ultimate goal. It is to ensure that such outrageous criminal conspiracy or negligence is not contemplated by anyone in the future. It is to seek and ensure that those who were responsible do not get away with it.

“As the President himself has pointed out, he is going to deal with anybody who is remotely or directly connected to this major affront on the Nigerian economy. What you find here are several people who have been negligent in their duties and have not shown enough patriotism and sometimes abandoned their duties.

“From the findings, you will discover that there is a lot of disconnect between the political leaders and the legal advisers. Legal advice was given and not followed through or ignored.

“There was the usual Nigerian democratic complacency which I will call the Nigerian foolishness and naivety that foreign contracts and contractors can be abused and treated like the Nigerian contracts and contractors whereby people execute contracts but are not paid for years. Some people even die without collecting their money and that is the problem with the Nigerian elite.”

Otubanjo, who noted that matters of arbitration had strict rules, called on the Nigerian government to do all within its ability to ensure that the matter was concluded logically as the effect of the $9.6bn award on Nigeria could not be imagined.

“Arbitration has very strict rules and once you have agreed to it, you cannot vary the outcome, as you can see already that $200m has been awarded against Nigeria before the appeal can be heard. What we see playing out here is negligence, political indifference to legal advice and those are the things that have created this problem.

“We hope the National Assembly will be able to identify some of those culpable; we need to make a show out of this because the people have stolen so much from the country and now they want to throw $9.6bn away to foreigners, it is like the country’s yearly budget. Once they get the judgment, they have a way of enforcing it; they have the means. So, we need to see what we can do to save ourselves from this mess,” he added.

As the appeal continues in the UK court, it is hoped that the country would learn from the negative development.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]