Bayelsa/Kogi polls: Don’t disgrace us, ASUU warns members
Friday Olokor, Abuja

The Academic Staff Union of Universities has warned its members who wish to participate in the November 16 governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states not to bring the academia to disrepute by indulging in electoral malpractices.

The union said such lecturers should always remember that they come from a constituency, which is the academia.

The National President of ASUU, Prof. Abiodun Ogunyemi, sounded the warning during an interview with The PUNCH in Abuja.

According to Ogunyemi, the clarification was necessary because whenever there was electoral malpractice involving a university lecturer, nobody would know whether it was ASUU that was being represented or people were participating in their individual capacities.

He said, “Our stand has not changed; what we said before the 2019 general elections and we are still saying is that academics are free to participate in their individual capacities.

“But let anyone that participates in the process not bring the academia into disrepute, and because of that, we are still admonishing our members, if they choose to participate, they should do so without blemish because nobody knows the difference – whether it was ASUU that was being represented or people are participating in their individual capacities.”

When asked if he meant that any ASUU member participating in the forthcoming governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states would be on their own, Ogunyemi said, “They are exercising their rights to participate; our only concern is that they should do so with discretion. We will not say they are on their own because it will mean that we are distancing ourselves from our members.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]