NDDC projects: Stop blame game, PDP tells Obaseki
Sola Shittu, Benin

The Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has faulted the call for the probe of N20bn Niger Delta Development Commission projects in the state by Governor Godwin Obaseki, describing it as mere blame game.

The state PDP chairman, Mr Dan Orbih, who conducted journalists round the Benin Water Storm project of the state government, which runs across three local government areas of Benin, said Obaseki could not blame his predecessor or ask for probe of any project because he was allegedly part of the problem on the ground in Edo State.

He said, “I want to use this opportunity of this visit to call on Governor Obaseki to stop the blame game. We are aware that the bond taken by the government to embark on this project was facilitated by Godwin Obaseki as chairman of the then economic team of Adams Oshiomhole’s government in Edo.

“For that project, the bond that was acquired by the government was facilitated by Obaseki, the present governor of Edo State, and it was facilitated by his company, Afri Invest, that was allegedly paid N1.5n as commission for securing the bond from the capital market.

“So the governor cannot embark on a blame game, from the inception he was part of this project and today, this project has been abandoned.”

The PDP chairman said Obaseki, being an insider in the government of his predecessor, could not be exonerated from the crisis in various projects across the state.

He then called for a comprehensive probe of those connected with the N30bn Benin Water Storm Project with the view of curbing erosion menace in the state.

He added that the Edo people had seen for themselves the blame game of the APC government in Edo as they were approaching the 2020 governorship election.

The PDP chairman said, “It is very obvious that there is something wrong with this government. It is the duty of government to carry out project that will be in the best interest of the people.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]