Akinlade, APM appeal tribunal’s verdict in Ogun
Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta

The Allied Peoples Movement and its Ogun State governorship candidate in the last election, Adekunle Akinlade, have filed 20 grounds of appeal against the judgment by the state election petitions tribunal at the Court of Appeal in Ibadan, Oyo State.

In the notice of appeal, a copy of which was obtained by our correspondent in Abeokuta on Thursday, the APM described the tribunal’s judgment as against the weight of evidence presented before it.

Akinlade and his party had challenged the victory of the All Progressives Congress and its governorship candidate, Dapo Abiodun, at the March 9, 2019 election.

The three-member panel, led by Justice Yusuf Halilu, had in its judgment delivered on September 14, dismissed the petition for being incompetent and lacking in merit.

One of the grounds Akinlade listed in the notice of appeal is that the tribunal’s judgment was not based on the issues canvassed by the petitioners, especially in relation to the respondent’s academic qualifications.

He and his party also accused the trial judges of denying them fair hearing at the state tribunal.

The notice of appeal read in part, “Take notice that the appellants herein being dissatisfied with the decision as contained in the judgment of the trial tribunal by Hon. Justice Yusuf Halilu (chairman), Hon. Justice C.C Okaa (member 1), and Hon. Kadi M.L Omar (member 2), delivered on the 14th day of September, 2019 in petition no: EPT/OG/GOV/01/2019: between Adekunle Abdulkabir Akinlade and Anor vs. Independent National Electoral Commission and Ors. do hereby appeal to the Court of Appeal upon the grounds set out in paragraph 3, and will, at the hearing of the appeal, seek the reliefs set out in paragraph 4.

“The learned trial judges of the lower tribunal erred in law, contradicted and misdirected themselves, when having found at page 29 and 30 of the ruling in respect of the second respondent’s preliminary objection.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]