APC alleges conspiracy by elite against govt policies
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja

The All Progressives Congress has called for more rigorous and educative criticisms of Federal Government’s actions, especially when they favour the masses but not the elite.

The party said there seemed to be conspiracies by critics to condemn policies of the government whenever they favoured the masses, but not the elite.

The APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, raised the concern on Wednesday in a statement titled, ‘APC: Nigerians deserve more from critics, media’.

Issa-Onilu based his assertion on media reports of a rift in the Presidency and alleged ‘whittling down’ of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo’s roles in the administration by President Muhammadu Buhari.

The statement said, “The purveyors of the conspiracy theory about the imagined rift in the Presidency have missed the opportunity to see the commendable efforts of this government.

“Perhaps, if these policies were about the elite, they would have focused on the positive imports rather than fishing for a crisis that only exists in their fatuous imagination.”

Citing a “hogwash” report that the Federal Inland Revenue Service gave the Vice President N90bn for the 2019 election, Issa-Onilu said it was part of the plots to cause instability by the Peoples Democratic Party.

Issa-Onilu said, “The conspirators are desperately trying to link government decisions on the National Social Investment Programmes, which have been under the office of the Vice President since it started in 2016 to support the conspiracies, however, mundane.

“In the same October 1 address, the President announced the recent redeployment of the Niger Delta Development Commission to the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs from the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. Was this also to ‘whittle down’ the powers of the OSGF?

“In our respective and collective efforts to support the development of our country, we cannot afford to fall into the superficial in assessing actions of government.”

READ ALSO: Tribute to ‘the People’s General’

According to the APC, moving all the N-SIPs, including Conditional Cash Transfers, National Home-Grown School Feeding, and Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programmes under a full ministry and appointing a substantive minister justifies the President’s renewed commitment to pulling millions of Nigerians out of poverty.

It said, “The Vice President played a frontline role in the conceptualisation of these policies and programmes and the President, in demonstration of his trust for him, charged him with the responsibility of nurturing the programmes to the current stage.

“Tremendous successes have been recorded under the guardianship of the Vice President. In demonstrating the administration’s commitment to the cause of the poor, these interventionist programmes have been elevated to the Next Level with the creation of the new ministry.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]