Tribunals uphold Lalong, Ganduje, Tambuwal’s elections
Friday Olokor, Ade Adesomoju, Success Nwogu, James Abraham and Ted Odogwu

The Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Jos, Plateau State, on Wednesday, dismissed the petition filed by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Jeremiah Useni, against the election of Governor Simon Lalong of the All Progressives Congress.

Useni had challenged the re-election of Lalong before the Justice H.A. Salesman-led tribunal, claiming that there were cases of over-voting and vote cancellation in the PDP-dominated areas during the March 2019 election.

The former FCT minister also claimed that Lalong was not qualified to contest the election as the certificate, which he submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission bore a different name from “Simon Lalong.”

During the trial, the PDP candidate and his party had called over 71 witnesses to prove their case.

But in a unanimous judgment on Wednesday, Justice Saleeman dismissed all the claims and ruled that Lalong was validly elected.

Lalong, in a statement by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Simon Macham, described his win as a victory for the people of the state and an affirmation of the mandate freely given to him in the last general election.

Similarly, the Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal in Kano, presided over by Justice Halima Muhd Shamaki, on Wednesday, affirmed the electoral victory of Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of the All Progressives Congress.

The tribunal dismissed the petition filed by the Peoples Democratic Party and its candidate, Abba Kabir Yusuf, challenging Ganduje’s victory.

The tribunal said the petitioners failed to prove all the allegations of electoral malpractices, particularly the use of thugs, raised against Ganduje.

Justice Shamaki stressed that there were contradictions in the testimonies of the 33 witnesses called by the petitioners.

While Ganduje’s lawyer, Ibrahim Mukthar, welcomed the tribunal’s verdict, the petitioners’ lawyer, Bashir Wazirci, said his clients would challenge it on appeal.

President Muhammadu Buhari, in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media and Publicity), Garba Shehu, congratulated both Lalong and Ganduje on their court victories.

Buhari urged the governors to unite their states by focusing more on inclusive and accountable governance.

“The President described the verdict of the tribunals as a victory for democracy, commending the people of Kano and Plateau states for maintaining the peace, allowing the due process of law to prevail and respecting the role of the judiciary in a democracy,” the statement said.

Meanwhile, the Sokoto State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal, on Wednesday, upheld the election of Governor Aminu Tambuwal of the PDP.

In a unanimous judgment delivered in Abuja by its three-man panel, the tribunal dismissed the petition filed by the APC and its governorship candidate, Ahmed Aliyu, to challenge the governor’s victory at the March 9, 2019 poll.

The tribunal led by Justice Bawale Abdullahi held that the petitioners failed to adduce credible evidence to prove their case.

The PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity, Kola Ologbondiyan, congratulated Tambuwal, describing the tribunal’s verdict as victory for democracy.

“Indeed, Governor Tambuwal’s achievements in developing the state and empowering the people in all critical sectors of life stood him out in his first term. His re-election, therefore, marks the determination of the people to consolidate good governance in their state,” the PDP said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]