ICYMI: NAF gets first female air warrant officer
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Nigerian Air Force said on Tuesday that the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, had approved the promotion of Master Warrant Officer Grace Garba to the rank of an Air Warrant Officer.

The military noted that the promotion made Garba to be the first female senior non-commissioned Officer to be promoted to the highest rank in the non-commissioned officers’ cadre in the Armed Forces of Nigeria.

The air force said in a release that Garba, who “has put in not less than 33 years of outstanding meritorious service to the nation,” was promoted due to her leadership qualities, hard work as well as her contributions to the service.

The NAF Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, said the woman would be decorated with the new rank on October 15, 2019.

He said, “The Chief of the Air Staff has approved the promotion of Master Warrant Officer Grace Tabawa Garba to the exalted rank of Air Warrant Officer. With the promotion, MWO Garba becomes the first female senior non-commissioned officer to be promoted to the highest rank in the non-commissioned officers’ cadre in the Armed Forces of Nigeria.”

“The promotion demonstrates the commitment of the current NAF leadership in paying adequate attention to the empowerment of female personnel to realise their full potentials. It would be recalled that one of the NAF’s female officers was sent to the United States of America for training to become the first female fighter pilot in the history of the NAF.

“Similarly, for the first time in NAF history, another female pilot is on the verge of completing training to become the first female helicopter pilot in the service.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]