APC, PDP disagree over Fayemi’s performance
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Peoples Democratic Party Chairman in Ekiti State, Chief Gboyega Oguntuwase, on Tuesday said Governor Kayode Fayemi’s frequent absence from the state had negatively impacted on governance and development.

The PDP chairman, who spoke in Ado Ekiti, alleged that the governor had not been around to attend to the challenges of insecurity, including herdsmen crisis, armed robberies and kidnapping.

He said, “The consequences of flooding in Ekiti State have not attracted the attention of the incumbent governor. A governor who understands his land and terrain and a governor who is committed to the transformation of Ekiti State will know that the issue of drainage system which could reduce flooding needs fast attention.

“For Ekiti at 23, seemingly, we have witnessed a cohesion which is as a result of our homogeneity and which is a product of the contributions of Ekiti people. Nevertheless, there has been disappointment and disillusionment in terms of governance; disappointments and disillusionment in the sense that developments in Ekiti have been inconsistent and epileptic. Majority of the visible infrastructural developments in Ekiti State were made under the PDP governance.”

The PDP chairman told Fayemi that “his interest in the Presidency or Vice Presidency does not mean he should abandon his primary responsibilities in Ekiti State. We equally appeal to him that he should take into consideration the security of our people”.

But the APC State Publicity Secretary, Ade Ajayi, who said the PDP allegations were “baseless, irresponsible and frivolous,” asked the Ekiti people to ignore the opposition party, saying, “PDP should bury its head in shame for destroying Ekiti.”

“Everybody who has eyes will see what Fayemi has been able to do within one year in office; but if the PDP is saying nothing has been done, it means the PDP members are blind.”

Ajayi asked, “Is the governor not responding to the yearnings and aspirations of Ekiti State by paying workers’ salaries regularly and by paying the pensioners regularly?

“Is he not performing his responsibilities by undertaking the repair of water projects abandoned by the PDP while they were in office? Water project is going on, the civic centre abandoned by the PDP is almost completed and a lot of other projects like that.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]