Akeredolu, Fintiri pardon 36 prisoners to commemorate independence
Hindi Livinus and Peter Dada

The Ondo and Adamawa states on Monday set free no few than 36 prison inmates who were serving various jail terms in the states .

In Ondo, the government freed 18 persons and commuted the death sentence of seven people, who had been convicted for various offences, to life imprisonment.

It was gathered that the Ondo State Government’s gesture was part of the activities marking the 59th Independence Day anniversary of the country, following the advice of the State Advisory Council of Prerogative of Mercy.

The acting Governor of the state, Mr Agboola Ajayi, in a letter to the Controller of Nigerian Correctional Services said the seven inmates who had been convicted and sentenced to death by hanging and were awaiting execution, should no longer be executed.

The letter read, “I, Agboola Ajayi, the acting Governor of Ondo State of Nigeria in exercise of the power conferred on me by paragraph (a) (c) and (d) of sub section (1) of Section 212 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 as amended, I am pleased to extend my grace and mercy unto the said condemned inmates and substitute a less severe punishment on the aforesaid inmates as clearly stated in the schedule.”

In Adamawa, Governor Ahmadu Fintiri, also released18 prisoners in five correctional facilities to commemorate the nation’s Independence Anniversary.

The governor, said the pardon of the prisoners was pursuant to the governor’s powers of prerogative of Mercy, under section 22 (1) (D) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.

A statement by the Director General, Media and Communication, Adamawa State Government House, Solomon Kumangar, conveyed Governor Fintiri’s pardon granted the 18 prisoners serving various prison terms in the state

He said the documents giving effect to the executive order issued by the state governor in respect of the pardon had already been dispatched to correctional facilities in Numan, Yola, Ganye, Jada and Kojoli.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]