My cabinet nominees picked on merit – Oyetola
Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo

The Governor of Osun State State, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Sunday said he followed due process and adhered strictly to merit, before releasing the list of nominees for cabinet positions.

Some members of the All Progressives Congress have been accusing the governor of marginalisation since last Tuesday when the Osun State House of Assembly released the list.

Specifically, the people of Ifon town, the headquarters of Orolu Local Government Area of the state, had alleged that Oyetola did not reward them for voting for him.

But the governor, in an interview with journalists at the Government House, Osogbo, after the prayer session organised to mark his 65th birthday, appealed to the protesting citizens to remain calm.

He said, “We have followed the due process in the choice of the people that made the list and everybody that we have picked it was based on merit.

“There are quite a number of other positions that we can fix our people in. As a matter of fact, everybody cannot make the cabinet.

“We are committed to ensuring fairness in all what we do, particularly in the distribution of appointments and infrastructure, among others.

“I can assure our people that those that we picked are people of substance who were chosen by their people and the party,” Oyetola said.

Earlier in his his lecture at the event, the Mufasir-li-Imam of Osogbo, Sheihk Maroof Ishola, urged the governor to dedicate much of his time to prayers and thanksgiving to God for the mercy of God on him and his family.

Meanwhile, the APC in Osun State said on Sunday that it had confidence in the ability of Oyetola to transform the state.

The party, in its congratulatory message to mark Oyetola’s 65th birthday, signed by its spokesperson, Kunle Oyatomi, said the governor was on “the threshold of a distinguished career in governance.”

The statement read, “Your efforts on health care infrastructure since you assume responsibility as governor have been remarkable.

“You have also since then resurrected that cost efficient culture of fixing broken and failed sections of our roads before they become death traps.”

In a related development, the candidate of the APC for Obokun State Constituency in the 2019 general elections, Mr Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, congratulated the governor, describing him as a visionary and respected leader who was living a life of simplicity and rendering service to the people.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]