Concerns over govs’ army of aides amid poor revenues
Amid dwindling revenue to all tiers of government and the need for more funds to develop infrastructure, TUNDE AJAJA examines the sustainability of governors appointing hundreds of aides along with their struggle to implement the N30,000 minimum wage

Across the three tiers of government in Nigeria, one of the most popular campaign promises that is almost as old as the country itself is the promise to cut the cost of governance. It’s largely a cliché during electioneering.

This statement, ostensibly, is often an admittance of the compelling need to cut the obvious wastage in governance and more importantly channel more funds towards developmental projects, which have grossly been in short supply and the available ones largely in the decrepit state throughout the country.

But, usually after assuming office, political office holders especially governors, often carry on with the status quo – the lavish style of governance.

From observation, one of the common ways this waste of resources manifest is the number of aides appointed by the governors.

The aides, some of who don’t even have portfolios, also draw their salaries and other benefits from the already shrunk public purse, while most of the governors who appointed them say they do not have the funds to pay the new minimum wage of N30,000 to civil servants.

Basically, such appointments are not new in Nigeria’s political space, drawing examples from recent history.

A former Governor of Adamawa State, Murtala Nyako, perhaps unsettled the political space in 2010 when he approved the recruitment of 15,000 special assistants, from the state’s 226 wards.

A statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Aminu Iyawa, said at that time.

Six years after, a report by the News Agency of Nigeria showed that on the average, governors have an average of 100 political appointees, including commissioners, which amounts to 3,600 aides in all.

And from findings, most of the states have monthly wage bills that are as high as their monthly allocation, and the situation is more precarious in states with low internally generated revenues.

Thus, there is usually little or nothing for capital projects, which snowballs into the infrastructure decay and deficit across the country.

Understandably, appointing aides is a norm across the world, but the focus in this context is when the number is high.

For example, in 2016, the Governor of Niger State, Alhaji Abubakar Bello, was said to have appointed 317 aides, in addition to his 14 commissioners.

A look at the breakdown shows that he had 15 special advisers, 25 senior special advisers, 274 special assistants and three zonal special advisers.

The governor’s media aide, Mr Jide Orintusi, said the appointments were for them to tackle issues bordering on politics, economy and security.

Interestingly, the governor said on April 26, 2016, that the state was borrowing N400m monthly to pay salaries.

With about N2.3bn monthly wage bill, the state spent about 80 per cent of its revenue on salaries and other recurrent expenditure.

As of that time too, Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State had appointed 210 aides, in addition to his 20 commissioners. The governor was quoted as saying at a news conference that appointing the aides was aimed at empowering the people since there were no industries for them to work.

“I decided to enlarge the number of appointments in order to spread the welfare to the citizenry,” he said, even though the state has N4.4bn monthly wage bill compared to its allocation that is usually less than N5bn.

In Benue State, Governor Samuel Ortom was said to have had about 70 political appointees, including 13 commissioners and 20 special advisers.

The governor had once lamented that the state could not sustain N7.9bn wage bill as its allocation from the Federal Government sometimes does not go beyond N5bn.

Also, in Akwa Ibom State, Governor Emmanuel Udom was said to have 20 commissioners and 145 aides, comprising special advisers, special assistants and protocol assistants.

In Cross River State, Governor Ben Ayade was said to have 84 special advisers and special assistants, excluding his 28 commissioners.

Ayade, at an interaction with journalists, said he decided to appoint more aides to create jobs for the unemployed and reduce redundancy to the minimum. The state’s wage bill was said to be over N5bn, which is almost at par with its monthly allocation.

The NAN report, however, indicated that special assistants earn about N120,000 while special advisers earn about N350,000 monthly.

In Bayelsa State, as of that time too, the governor had 21 commissioners and 45 political aides, whose salary was around N180,000 monthly, respectively.

The then Governor of Nasarawa State, Tanko Al-Makura, was also said to have appointed 66 aides at a point in his administration. The list comprised 30 special assistants, 20 senior special assistants and 16 special advisers, “to help the governor deliver good governance.”

In Delta, Rivers and almost all the states, it has become a norm for governors to appoint several political aides, due largely to the need to compensate and empower political associates, especially those who worked for their victory at the polls.

In 2017, the Director-General, Media and Publicity to Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, Kingsley Fanwo, told Saturday PUNCH in an interview that with 67 aides, Bello had one of the leanest governments in the country, alleging that Bello’s successor had over 200 appointees.

Fanwo explained that the appointments were spread across the 21 local governments, and when asked why there were three to four persons advising the governor on the same thing, he said it was for geopolitical balance.

The latest in the endless series of these appointments seems instructive even.

About two weeks ago, a report emerged that the Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi, announced his plan to appoint 800 additional aides, as part of efforts to encourage the people to contribute to the development of the state.

Giving the breakdown at a meeting with the members of the State Executive Council, members of the state House of Assembly, Local Government chairmen, the new appointees and other stakeholders, Umahi said more appointees would join the existing 185 Executive Assistants, Senior Technical Assistants and Technical Assistants.

He said, “We would be getting about 800 EAs, STAs and TAs by the end of this meeting and from this moment, the task of making similar appointments is taken from me and given to the people from the ward level.

“This means that we will appoint three more TAs from each ward of the state and the stakeholders will sit and nominate two, while the party will nominate one.”

“We would approach the House of Assembly on the issue of liaison officers, to bring their salaries to N60,000 in order to create additional ones, especially for women (widows).

“We intend to have two liaison officers in the wards – one for men and one for women and if you add party executives at the ward level, we will have about 4,000 appointees. Anyone that would be appointed would have something doing, at least possess one hectare of farmland, which will be adequately profiled.”

While on one hand, the governors appoint political aides as much as they like, they, on the other hand, complain that they do not have enough funds to pay civil servants the new minimum wage of N30,000, which is less than a quarter of what each of their aides earns.

But, while they retained their aides and even appointed more as the need arose, they proposed that they could only pay N22,500 as the minimum wage, which was vehemently opposed by the organised labour.

In fact, in November 2018, the governors, under the aegis of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, said they could not afford to pay the N30,000 unless the organised labour wanted them to sack workers or the Federal Government agreed with the review of the revenue formula.

Meanwhile, this practice of appointing many political aides is not limited to the governors, even though theirs seems to be more profound.

For example, the then Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, had over 100 aides, including special advisers and special assistants.

As of July 16, 2019, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, had appointed six media aides and 27 other aides, spread across the geopolitical zones.

The Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, his deputy, Ovie Omo-Agege, the Deputy Speaker of the House, Idris Wase, also have their aides in their numbers.

Speaking on the issue, a public affairs analyst, Mr Liborous Oshoma, stated that employing many aides would not eradicate poverty but breed laziness, entitlement mentality and hangers-on as it would make hard work unattractive.

He said, “People who are supposed to be farmers, entrepreneurs, professionals and factory workers tend to be laid back because of the free money. Instead of developing the state and creating wealth, they (governors) appoint many advisers.

“It is ridiculous and very shameful. When the world is diversifying into a knowledge-based economy, our politicians are giving out hand-outs in the form of cash, tricycles, motorcycles and appointing advisers, some of whom don’t have portfolios. Some have never even been to Government House before.”

Oshoma, however, cautioned that to sustain the practice would not be beneficial to the system as some might become violent when such handouts stopped coming.

Asked about the way out, he said, “It’s too late in the day for us to say we can get out of it easily; the only way we can get out of it is when the idea of relying on monthly allocation stops. If crude oil dries up today, every state would find alternative sources of making money, including taxes. When that happens, people would hold the government accountable.”

Also, a professor of Strategy and Development, Anthony Kila, said the problem was not what one political party or what one government was doing but the fact that politics had become one of the biggest industries in Nigeria, which he said, made many people to be pushing to be there as well as having a lot of aides.

Kila, who is also an International Director of Studies at the European Centre of Advanced and Professional Studies, added, “We as the people have a duty of creating a system where there is value in being an artist, a painter, a carpenter and other jobs, rather than rushing to be in power because people know it is a very lucrative venture. However, that idea is ridiculous and it shows you that some people in power don’t know how to think.

“Instead of creating jobs, they want people to come and share from the money and that is the problem.”

Speaking on the way out, he said it was important for people with a voice, clarity of mind and courage to speak out for the anomaly to be corrected.

He added, “It is rational, informed and independent citizens that do not depend on the government that can talk and there is a need to amplify their voices. Also, there is a need to recognise the private sector to show that there is life outside the government.”

“We also need a constitutional provision that sets the framework for expenditure and revenue in all tiers of government, because what we have is a poverty of the mind and a mockery of the system and we can’t continue like that.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]