Attacks on Ambode will fail —Lagos Renaissance Group
The Lagos Renaissance Group on Friday said that all attacks on the person of the former governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode would fail.

In a statement signed by Daniel Awesu and Abdul-Quadri Enikanolaiye, chairman and secretary general of the group respectively, LRG condemned the anti-Ambode protests that took place at the Lagos Secretariat and the Lagos State House of Assembly on Tuesday.

At the Lagos Assembly, the protesters had asked the Lagos Assembly to probe the former governor.

LRG described the protest as “highly despicable, unjustified, embarrassingly shameful and uncalled-for.”

In the statement, the group said that while it was not opposed to genuine protests and criticism, it was opposed to deliberate attempts to tarnish the image of the former governor.

READ ALSO: Sowore: DSS blocks two attempts by court bailiff to re-serve court order

“Sponsored and money-induced protests and attacks by faceless and disgruntled elements are harmful to any democracy and social well being of a society,” the group said.

LRG said that the anti-Ambode protests had been sponsored and that the protesters were mostly “hired street urchins.”

The group pointed out that the protest was just one of the planned assaults on the former governor in attempts to allegedly taint his name and rubbish his achievements as governor in the state for four years.

“No doubt, this is one of the series of intentionally planned persecution and political assaults on the former Governor Ambode in order to wickedly rubbish his rich and enviable credentials and pedigree. From the instigation of the Economic And Financial Crime Commission by people of known questionable character and history to investigate the former Governor; to the reprehensible display of imprudence by the Lagos State House Of Assembly (made up of 100% of the All Progressive Congress, APC) members to embark on a wild goose chase of probing the pro-people Public Bus Transportation Scheme implemented by the immediate former Governor of Lagos State who is a committed member of the APC.

“It will only be an act of feigning ignorance or mischief if anyone living in Lagos State is oblivion of the tremendous and daring but short-lived pro-people policies and program the former Governor Ambode designed and implemented during his 4-year tenure: 2015-2019.

“The majority of youths and residents in Lagos State in particular and Nigeria in general, know better than to be involved or believe in concocted, unintelligently manufactured and cheap falsehood by the enemies within who feel perpetually threatened by either Ambode’s achievements while in government or his discreetness and calmness in the face of persecution and barrage of lies against him while out of office.

“In the light of this, we of the Lagos Renaissance Group, a socio-cultural-political organization based in Lagos State, unequivocally maintain that all the campaign of calumny against Governor Ambode will continue to fail in the face of logic as the man lives in the minds of the people,” said the statement.