‘Oyetola didn’t reward our sacrifices towards his emergence’
BOLA BAMIGBOLA

People of Orolu Local Government Area of Osun State on Saturday lamented the exclusion of their indigenes from the cabinet list forwarded to the state House of Assembly last Tuesday.

The community, under the aegies of Ifon-Orolu Progressive Union, said despite the huge sacrifices towards the emergence of the governor, especially during the September 27 governorship rerun, the people of the local government deserved to be given commissioner.

Addressing newsmen, the National Publicity Secretary of the union, Prince Jide Akinyooye, said exclusion of an Ifon indigene from the list meant that the local government would be the only one in the state without any representation at both the legislative and executive arms in the state.

He described the exclusion as an “embarrassment to the Olufon Ifon, the political class and the entire people,” and called on the governor to address the issue in the interest of justice and fairness.

Akinyooye said, “It is very sad and a great embarrassment to the entire people of Orolu Local Government that a government we wholeheartedly supported refused to reciprocate our loyalty.

“We still find it difficult to understand the reason why none of our indigenes was included in the 35-man list in a state that has 30 local governments.

READ ALSO: Man chains, starves son to death in Kano

“The implication of this is that the Orolu Local Government will be the only local government without any indigenous representation at the state level both in the legislative and executive arms of government.

“This is very unfortunate and against the provisions of the Federal Character Commission Act. For the sake of justice and fairness, we trust that the governor will address our exclusion from the list.”

Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Ismail Omipidan, while defending the list submitted by the governor, on a radio programme aired by Rave FM, a private radio station in Osogbo, explained that “the selection was done based on federal constituency basis and not on local government basis.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]