Governors should use security vote to tackle insecurity — Erhabor
A former 1st Vice-President of Nigerian Bar Association, Mr Justy Erhabor, tells FEMI MAKINDE in this interview that the arrangements by government to swap arrested bandits with abducted persons is a demonstration of the helplessness of the country’s leaders

How do you see the mounting indebtedness of the nation especially with the move by the Federal Government to borrow a fresh $2.5bn from the World Bank?

Honestly, the debts keep piling up and it is worrisome. This government’s penchant for loan is worrisome. The issue of persistent borrowing is what I don’t understand because borrowing is not the only way to generate funds to run the economy. Despite the huge amount of money already borrowed, the economy of the nation is not being impacted and local businesses are dying and those still afloat are running at a loss and ending up in debts. Where are we investing these foreign loans? The roads are still bad, the rails are looking beautiful only in pictures and social media. Let’s not talk about electricity. We need to be re-colonised in that aspect.

There is need to re-inflate the economy with funds. We can start by commencing payment of the new minimum wage, repayment of domestic debts, settling court judgments, paying outstanding compensations on government acquired lands and payment of professional fees for services rendered to various governments and their parastatals. When these legitimate funds are injected into the economy, it will have ripple effects. We just seem to be acquiring debts for future generations even as taxes are increasing without business activities. I am not an expert, but I am worried. These debts are a burden to the nation especially since the impact of the debt is not being felt on the economy.

Some bandits were released in exchange for abducted persons in Katsina State. What is the implication of this on security?

The level of insecurity in many parts of the country is high and it seems that hoodlums have taken over in some areas and the innocent people are now at their mercy. Many have been killed, maimed and property destroyed while some were kidnapped. To ensure the release of some of the arrested bandits, their gangs have now started seeking ways to make sure they are freed by also releasing some abducted persons. And every life matters. The lives of the abducted citizens are more important than the death of the bandits. If the governors are no longer pretending to be chief security officers of their states, they can become the chief ransom payers. They should dedicate their security votes into ransom funds. The bandits are already aware that they have the upper hand in most cases. They have now included prisoners swapping, the type you do between two countries! There is no better way to advertise your helplessness. This appears to be the realities on ground. Its either the security forces are overwhelmed or there is total lack of incentives or desire to fight the bandits. I know with God, this state of hopelessness will come to pass.

How do you view the efforts being made by the South-West governors to address security issues in the region?

I am happy the governors in the South-West have woken up to confront the situation. The civil and socio-cultural organisations have long been waiting for the governors. I am satisfied with their plans. In fact, the mere announcement of their plans has reduced the spate of kidnappings in the South West. I live in and transverse the South-West on weekly basis, so I should know. I call on Edo and Delta states’ governors to do likewise and prepare for the spill over. The regional policing will work. Our forests should be made safe, that is very important for the survival of the region. Hoodlums have turned some of the forests to their hideouts but if local people with good knowledge of the terrain are employed into the regional security outfit, they will be able to get necessary information to dislodge criminals and make the forests and other places not conducive for them. Security votes should be put to use and the public should cooperate with them. If they succeed with the regional security network, regional economic development will be next and before you know it, we would have our restructuring.

There have been calls for the replacement of the service chiefs. Do you support that they should be changed?

It is the duty and prerogative of the Commander in Chief to determine whether he is satisfied with the performance of his service chiefs and whether to replace them. It is not scriptural to evaluate the performance of servants of another master. It is the master that understands his assignments to his servants.

You said we need to be colonised again. Why did you say that?

It is almost certain now that we do not have what it takes to solve electricity problems in the country. We keep on throwing dollars at the problem and the problem keeps getting bigger by the day. We are nowhere near the solutions. We tried the privatisation option and the outcome is not satisfactory. I read somewhere that this administration has thrown over a trillion naira into the matter and yet the darkness continues. Maybe we need foreign intervention. How can we spend decades on just one item of development without results? It’s so frustrating that successive governments have failed to meet our electricity demands.

What do you think Nigeria needs to do to avoid paying $9.6bn to P&ID?

I think the government has woken up to her responsibilities concerning the matter. We initially didn’t handle the matter with the seriousness the case deserves. We are not short of legal experts that can defend the country if we put politics aside.

I read about the conditional stay of execution granted us during the week. The lawyers know what to do. The government should get our best lawyers on the job and stop this grandstanding of obtaining funny domestic court orders. We have displayed before the international community our domestic penchant for disrespecting court judgments and orders.

How will you rate Nigeria at 59?

At 59, we ought to have done better than this as a nation. Honestly, I do not know if we are making progress in any field of human endeavour. Our educational system is in a shambles, the health sector is worst than it has ever been. I am looking hard to see any bright areas of development! Maybe you can help me. The security challenges have become so enormous to the extent that inter-state travelling is now a risky venture. Communications have become easier, yet we have embraced the sordid aspects of fake news and the contents of our communication have become worrisome. We have not deplored the benefits of this IT revolution to enough economic and developmental gains. We have instead mastered internet scams. This is not just about our government but the people. We have not taken enough advantage of social media for business and education.

We must do something urgently to build hope and faith in the country; in our democracy; in our institutions and in ourselves. We must change the abstract way we serve God. Our service must profit humanity. We must first become a better people before we can build a better country. We can, by the grace of God. I wish all Nigerians well on our independence anniversary.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]