Nigeria, more divided along ethnic lines at 59 –Senator Kunlere
A former Vice Chairman, Senate Committee on Solid Minerals, Senator Boluwaji Kunlere, who represented Ondo South Senatorial District was born on April 1960, the same year Nigeria gained independence from Britain. He tells FEMI MAKINDE in this interview that Nigeria needs to restructure for a better future

How will you assess Nigeria’s 59 years of independence?

At 59, there are mixed feelings. We thank God for our founding fathers who struggled for our independence and their efforts paid off. That is what opened the gate to the opportunities for Nigerians to govern themselves. There was military government which eventually gave way to the democracy we are enjoying now. The independence opened the way for educational advancement which made Nigerians to attain the highest educational height in the land. Nigerians started governing themselves and judiciary was developed and we no longer needed to depend on British judiciary. Our villages became cities and our cities became mega cities. From one university in 1948, we now have almost 200 universities apart from polytechnics and colleges of education and other tertiary institutions.

Our hydro carbon resources are being used by our people, oil was discovered but if the colonial masters had discovered the crude oil earlier, may be they would have delayed the independence.

At 59, like I said, we still have a long way to go. When you see our contemporaries, they have gone far ahead of us. Our technology is nothing to write home about. The educational system is yet to meet the yearnings of the people because our education is supposed to be for sustenance. What we have now are degrees upon degrees with no jobs and underemployment apart from the massive unemployment in the land. The level of criminality is so high as a result of unemployment although I am not saying unemployment pushed all criminals into crime. There are many people who suffered greatly without going into crime and they eventually got their breakthroughs.

At 59, Nigeria is more divided. This is the reason why we need to call on our leaders to inculcate the spirit of nationalism and patriotism in the citizens. In Nigeria, all animals are no longer equal and you will see that we have a long way to go. What is going on now is double standard. For example, those who are members of the party in power cannot commit crime no matter what they do but the same government will go out of its way to look to an offence to nail those in the opposition. They have become unquestionable and that is why they have painted themselves as angels and others as devils.

Is there hope of a better future for the country with the picture you have painted?

There is hope. Nigerians must start asking questions and government must allow the press to do their jobs without intimidation. The press should be allowed to carry out their constitutional duties. The constitution provides that the press shall hold government accountable and that nothing should be hidden. If we abide by that and improve on our electoral process, let the votes of the people count and the judiciary is bold to interpret electoral laws without fear, then we will be on the way to a better future. But if we continue with this garrison system, then it’s only God that can say where we will end.

Do we have reasons to celebrate now?

Yes, there is reason to celebrate. We are ruling ourselves; although we have challenges of security of poor infrastructure and all that, we still have areas where we have made progress. Look at what is happening in South Africa, how Nigerians and other foreigners are being killed and maimed and their law enforcement agents look the other way, that cannot happen in Nigeria without our security agents doing something to stop it. But in South Africa, we saw a deputy Minister of Police justifying killing, saying it happened because foreigners had taken over their land. Then you should know that we are better than that at least. Nigerians do not deserve such treatment because I remember that we contributed money as students, to the struggle for South Africa’s independence. That was during ( Olusegun) Obasanjo regime. We prayed and contributed money. We have reasons to celebrate although things are not the way they should be. Even if you look at our means of communication now, there is a massive improvement and we can now speak to anybody in the remotest part of the world. Many people were employed directly or indirectly because of this telecommunication revolution, the internet is there with its huge benefits.

But power supply is still not adequate?

Yes, I agree with you. Government needs to carry out a massive revolution in this sector as well to improve our economy and our wellness. We put on generators almost all the time and emit dangerous smoke which further depletes the ozone layer. We destroy the environment with emission but if this power crisis is solved and there are infrastructure and facilities put in place, then we will be on the way to greatness.

What do you think is the most important thing to do to address these problems?

There is call for Biafra in one part of the country, some are calling for Oduduwa Republic and the sharp division along ethnic lines is huge, so we must arrest the drift and that is very important. We must make sure that the country belongs to everybody whether in the South or in the North. For example crude is explored from the backyard and farmland of some people but they don’t benefit anything from its proceeds. I don’t think any injustice can be greater than that. When oil is explored, the environment is destroyed and the means of livelihood of the people are gone with it, you impoverish them and take their wealth to other people to enjoy. We must address this. All the budget and everything that goes to Niger Delta including Ondo State is not up to proceed of one day production out of 365 days in a year. We don’t even have the real time measure of the volume of crude oil and gas we take out on a daily basis. We don’t have refineries that can refine the crude oil for local consumption and we just keep losing huge money to those who have focus. If we continue to deny the people their rights, we are acting against the laws of God and the tendency to get punished by God is very high because God hates injustice. But there is hope if we genuinely begin to act as one.

Is restructuring a solution to this injustice?

That is what I am saying but those benefiting from this present arrangement do not want to hear the word restructuring. Lagos and Kano have almost the same population before Jigawa was created out of Kano and between Jigawa and Kano, there are about 73 local government councils whereas Lagos State has remained 20 local governments since. Lagos was resisted when it created local council development areas, so, where is justice in that? But some of the places they call local government council up there are not up to a ward by any standard. But they always have their ways because the power to create is with them. They created local government areas, wards and others to favour their own people and leave others to suffer.

If we restructure, the centre will be less powerful and the owners of each resources will take possession and remit certain percentage to the Federal Government, then development will be faster because there will be healthy rivalry among the federating units. But with the present arrangement of injustice, those that contribute little or nothing are the ones taking the lion’s share of the national cake.

Even the World Bank said the President asked them to concentrate development projects in the North; we can’t continue like that and expect to build a united nation. These are some of the things causing division and when they look at them, they conclude that the country is not fair to certain parts.

Will restructuring help to address the problem of corruption and insecurity?

Yes, it will address the two problems. For example, if you take a policeman from Igbotako, Ondo State to Kaura Namoda, the person is not likely to understand their language and even terrain like those who are indigenes of the place. That was how we lost someone in Ilu-Titun, they were posted to somewhere in the North-East. The people there told him that they were going to eat and he waited behind but Boko Haram came and overran the place and he was killed. Those who left heard that Boko Haram insurgents were coming and they just used that to escape.

Restructuring will reduce insecurity in the country. It will also help in preventing corruption because people in the federating units will hold their government accountable more than what we are doing now. Also, the money which will be available to the government that time would not be free money like oil proceeds. If the money is not free, people will monitor their money very well and this will in a way reduce corruption. Now, some of those in power behave as if there will be no tomorrow and that is why they grab anything they can grab whenever they have the opportunity to be in one office or another. I am sure there are some local government areas that will be closed down if there is restructuring because there will be no free money to maintain them. With restructuring, I can tell you states will not have three senators representing them because there won’t be free money to cater for them. States will also not have more than three House of Representatives members and all these hundreds of special advisers will be no more and this will free money for development purposes. Restructuring will help us in many areas but it is a pity that some are resisting what will be beneficial to our country. It is the way to go and without restructuring, Nigeria cannot go forward. The embezzlement will continue because those who are benefiting from the system will not want this system to end.

Like I said, there are challenges which we must face if we want to move forward as a nation but there is hope for our nation.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]