Nigeria @59: A nation in throes of insecurity, uncertain future
In this piece, OLALEKAN ADETAYO presents experts’ views on how Nigeria fared in the 59 years of its independence especially concerning security, infrastructure, health and education sectors

It is that time of the year again when Nigeria celebrates its independence from colonial masters. Having gained independence on October 1, 1960, the nation has been rolling out drums on the same day of every year to mark the anniversary of the national incident. Every year, the Federal Government outlines programmes that hold for at least a week to venerate the liberty. Such activities end on October 1 when the President addresses the nation and thereafter leads dignitaries to Eagles Square, Abuja where an elaborate grand finale programme usually holds since 1990, when the seat of government was hurriedly moved from Lagos to the new nation’s capital.

The usual Eagles Square event, however, changed from 2010 when two car bombings said to have been masterminded by the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta occurred at the venue of the event. That development marred the elaborate event put in place to celebrate the 50th independence anniversary. That was during the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan.

For subsequent years, the government resorted to low-key events. Instead of gathering and having extravagant events at the usual venue, the Jonathan administration resolved to be holding a strictly military event tagged Presidential Change of Guards at the forecourt of the Presidential Villa. When President Muhammadu Buhari came on board in 2015, he sustained that new culture.

On Tuesday, the change of guards is expected to hold inside the Presidential Villa in the morning while an anniversary dinner will hold later in the day. Both events are expected to hold within the Presidential Villa. The programmes outlined for this year’s anniversary started on Friday with a Jumat service and lecture as well as an inter-denominational service fixed for Sunday.

Whether the celebration is low-key or an elaborate one, the question, however, is whether Nigeria has fared well in the close to six decades of its existence as a self-determining nation.

No security, no development

For a former Director of the Department of State Services, Mike Ejiofor, Nigerians cannot boast of a secured country in the 59 years of being an independent nation. The security expert, in an interview with our correspondent, noted that Nigeria’s security architecture is still being tested by global security challenges, like terrorism, and the ones that are peculiar to the country, like kidnapping and armed robbery.

Ejiofor said, “The country has a lot of security challenges. One of the problems with the security sector in Nigeria is that, just like every other sector, our security sector is not properly funded. The United Nations’ ratio is one policeman to 400 persons, but in Nigeria, we have less than 350,000 policemen. Even about 150,000 policemen are attached to VIPs.

“You will also realise that security now is not hand-driven, it is technologically driven. That means we need money to buy equipment. Even corruption within the military is not helping matters in the fight against insurgency. You are aware that N400m cash was recovered from a general. We are saying there is no enough fund to finance the security sector and yet, some people are diverting the money.

“It is also noteworthy that crime is getting more sophisticated. Terrorism is a global war, it is not peculiar to Nigeria. It is in addition to our peculiar security challenges like kidnapping, robbery, and Internet fraud, among others. Some of these challenges cannot be fought manually.

“We can also not be taking security in isolation. The power and agriculture sectors are also poorly funded. But we are worried about security because the primary responsibility of the government as enshrined in the constitution is to ensure the protection of lives and property of the people. When there is no adequate security, there won’t be any development.

“However, this does not say that we have not made some progress in the sector in 59 years. We have made some progress but we must put in more efforts and continue to do the right thing to improve the nation’s security.”

In tackling the nation’s security challenges, Ejiofor urged the security chiefs to stop what he described as the politicisation of security issues. “Our security chiefs should also stop politicising the security sector with their propaganda like saying Boko Haram has been decimated. This claim is not showing on the ground. They are only saying so to impress their political principals. They should reduce the politicisation of the war against insurgency,” he added.

No celebration in the health sector

The President of the Nigerian Medical Association, Dr Francis Faduyile, told our correspondent that there is nothing to celebrate about as far as the nation’s health sector is concerned. He stressed the need for more concerted efforts both on the parts of the government and medical practitioners in order to improve the sector’s fortune.

Faduyile said, “I don’t think we have fared so well. All indices have not shown any improvement in our health sector. We need to reposition the health sector. From the government, we expect them to do the needful and improve health care generally by strengthening the National Health Insurance Scheme. The reviewed National Health Insurance Bill is before the President, waiting for his assent. We need to inject more funding into the health sector. Those paltry three per cent or four per cent are small.

“Workers in the health sector should also understand one another and work together to provide quality service for their patients. We need to redirect our efforts to ensure that the primary health care level is functioning appropriately.

“I don’t think we have any major celebration in terms of health. Some 40 and 50 years ago, Nigeria was a medical tourism ground that many people were coming from outside the country to seek medical attention. But today, we are the ones exporting ourselves to seek medical tourism.”

Education sector so depressing

As far as the National President, University of Port Harcourt Alumni Association, Chief Chris Adokeme, is concerned, the quality of education has dropped drastically in the country since independence. Adokeme told our correspondent that the situation had degenerated to what he described as a sickening level that some graduates could not write three correct sentences. He said the quality of teaching had also dropped, thereby making the future very dim for the nation’s education sector.

He said, “Where does one start from? That the quality of education has dropped since independence is all too glaring for anyone who desires the truth, to contest. Even ‘standard six’ products of the colonial and immediate post-colonial era are much better than some modern postgraduate degree holders, especially those who graduated after the mid-90s.

“It is really depressing. It is so bad that some university graduates can hardly string three correct sentences together. They now resort to abbreviations and slang. It’s sickening. To make matters worse, even the quality of teaching has dropped drastically, thus throwing dark clouds over the possibility of resuscitation in the foreseeable future.”

No attempt to solve national problems

As far as the spokesman for the Yoruba group, Afenifere, Mr Yinka Odumakin, is concerned, the nation’s problems since independence are overwhelming. He said the most unfortunate thing was that there were no conscious efforts to tackle the problems.

For Nigeria to take his rightful place among the comity of nations, Odumakin said there should be a deliberate move to solve the country’s problems. Such efforts, he suggested, should start with the nation’s structure.

He said, “We have fared very badly. So many years ago, we are almost at par with countries like China, India and the rest of them. At 59, Nigeria is the global secretariat of poverty now. According to figures released recently, 98% of Nigerians do not have N5, 000 in their bank accounts. A large percentage of Nigerians are spending 80% to 90% of their income on food at 59. When you look at all indices today, the situation in the country looks pathetic.

“The number of out of school children in Nigeria today is unbelievable. There is no area of our national life that is encouraging. For a country with huge opportunities at independence, it is very sad. At a time in this country, the Saudi royal family members were coming to the UCH in Ibadan for medicals but years after, one of our former Presidents nearly die in Saudi Arabia in search of medical attention.

“The state of electricity in this country at 59 is so embarrassing. The most unfortunate thing is that we are not even making attempts to solve our numerous national problems. At 59, all we are interested in as a nation is RUGA, National Livestock Programme. We need to take an urgent step to address our problems. In solving our problems, we need to address the issue of the structure of the country.”

Festus Fashipe, an engineer, regretted that the lamentations of Nigerians had worsened now than during the colonial rule. He likened the situation of the country to a ship without a captain. ‘‘In fact, I regret to say that our yesterday as a nation was better than our today. There are no indices to show that tomorrow will be better. It is such a bad and precarious situation that Nigerians prefer to be slaves outside their country than in their fatherland. They are dying on the seas on their way outside the country in a desperate attempt to escape hunger and trauma in their father’s land. That’s the satiation now. For now, the future is not looking bright for the nation and its citizens,’’ he said dejectedly.

He said it was sad that all the major roads in the nation were in a state of despair, adding that ‘’ the productive hours we spend on the road are apart from telling on our health, also having negative effects on our productivity at our places of work. The bad roads are also helping in the business of kidnapping. Now, a nation that ought to be lending money to nations begs to eat, pay salary, build bad roads and so forth. Our refineries are left unrepaired because putting them in proper shape will stop or minimise corruption. Our leaders are not ready to fulfil electoral promises.’’

Amidst these dirges, however, Nigerians are still keeping hope alive that things will get better but nobody can say with confidence when and if that miracle will ever happen.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]