Dignitaries failed to fulfill promises to IDPs –Olatunji-David
In this interview with ADELANI ADEPEGBA, the Founder, Life Builders Initiative, Sanwo Olatunji-David, speaks on failed promises made by highly-placed Nigerians to the Internally Displaced Persons and how to reduce the huge number of out-of-school children in the country.

For over five years, you have been providing free education for children and material support for displaced persons in FCT. How have you sustained the programme?

Life Builders have been involved in providing what we called whole school approach to the IDPs (Internally Displaced Persons), the less privileged and the under-served in Abuja. We call it whole school approach because we believe that for education to happen, we need the student to be healthy, so we provide medical facility for the student; We believe there must be food for the children, so we provide a meal a day for all the students under our programme. We also believe that we should carry along the parents, so not only do we update the parents on the activities of their children, but we also find ways and means to empower the parents so they can translate from being poor people to becoming self-sustaining. That way, they can take over the management and responsibility of their children in the future. So, we provide a holistic approach to life and livelihood of the child and the parent. We provide free uniforms, sandals, and tuition-free education. We have 14 teachers, three security men and two cooks who are on salaries.

How did this idea evolve and what inspired it?

In 2014, we encountered a group of Nigerians who in general parlance can be called out-of-school children. We found them loitering about on a Tuesday morning and we made further inquiries and found out that there was no school in the neighbourhood for them to attend. So, we set up one and started teaching them daily and then we found out that they could not concentrate because they were hungry, they were poorly dressed and had no shoes. We started providing for these little kids. It was much later we discovered that they were IDPs. They were displaced from Gwoza, Chibok,Adamawa, Taraba-the North-Eastern part of the country by the Boko Haram insurgency. We had a lot of other Nigerians living in the same community with them, so we set out to make life meaningful for them in their various communities. The project started from Kuchingoro, Abuja, but as time went by, their family members in Garki Area I engaged with us and invited us to provide the same services for them. We also got involved with those in Wassa, Waru, Orozo, Pegi, Kutara and Kabusa. It was a programme that started small, but as the need arose, we kept expanding, providing health facilities for the children in particular and the family in general. In the past six years, we have had a number of interventions in all these places I have mentioned. The situation was quite critical.

Specifically, what is the nature of the interventions you carried out in the communities?

In 2016, we had a survey of the needs of the people living in those communities and the survey informed our intervention. In some areas, we had to work with some relevant NGOs to bring health services to them; In some areas, we provided borehole for water, we also built toilets in a number of communities. Our core area of impact, responsibility and assignment, is in the area of education and that is what we wished to be remembered for; that we were able to solve the problems of out-of-school children. In our six years of operation, we have been able to register over 1,470 children on our programme and out of this number, we have moved 160 to government secondary schools. About 600 have moved to other primary schools because we work to resettle their parents and life became more meaningful to them, so they moved their families out of the IDP settlement. We are able to track them and ensured that they are still going to school where they are and we still have in our school 725 children we are taking care of.

What is the percentage of IDP children in secondary schools and how many are being sponsored by the dignitaries who have visited the IDP camp?

As the schools resume, we will be resettling another 24 into the secondary schools again, in addition to the number we had. We had to pay the school fees of those children we moved to the secondary school. Our first set of children has been promoted to SS 2 (senior secondary class) in Abuja. We have also been able to work with partners to ensure that the tuition of this category of children is paid and they are well catered for as they moved on in their educational pursuit. We also have a few of our (physically challenged) children in the school for the gifted. They came from the streets and in a matter of one year, they were able to gain traction in their education, they have excelled. We have some of our children being nominated into the Commonwealth Youth Parliament and they represented Nigeria in Uganda. We have had a number of high profile persons visiting the children. Generally, we are glad that we have been of tremendous impact in the lives of the out-of-school children. We have hosted Vice President Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, and his wife on a number of occasions. We have hosted the Chief of Army Staff several times, and the wives of the CAS, Defence minister and Chief of Naval Staff. The Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, Cardinal John Onaiyekan, has visited, including a number of ambassadors who have had an impact on the lives of the IDPs. We have hosted a number of members of the National Assembly. It is unfortunate that most of the people who visited promised to get back to us to make the lives of the children better, but they are yet to make good their promise.

Are you discouraged by this?

Our prayer has always been that God would put it in the hearts of Nigerians to come to the aid of the less privileged because we are humans first before we are humanitarians. It is important for us to be our brother’s keeper. We have worked with a number of NGOs, we have had the support of a number of religious organisations who have come and still do come to provide help in terms of foodstuffs, clothes and clothing materials for the IDPs. We had a number of other people from various organizations. We hosted the German President, the leader of the state of Italy, and other local and international visitors. Going forward, our expectation is that the IDPs would be resettled in their communities because the way they are living is below minimum standards. We have assisted a good number of them to secure land for farming in Nasarawa, and that has been their main source of livelihood. We have been able to depopulate the community sizably because we have also found jobs for some of them outside the camp. In the survey we conducted, over 85 per cent of them said they were willing to return to their communities as soon as possible while 10 per cent said they preferred living in Abuja. The reality is that this group do not feel welcome in Abuja, they do not desire to continue living here, they were very comfortable in their primary place of abode and they desired to return, so all well meaning people and the government should assist by quelling the crisis in their place so they can return to where they came from. A lot of them confessed that the quality of education they are getting at the camp, which we considered inadequate, is better than what they had in their community. So, we are hoping to replicate the Life Builders model in a number of states in the North-East and in places with a high population of out-of-school children. We have also trained many in vocation and skill acquisition programme.

How many families have you resettled?

At the first instance in 2016, we settled about 120 men with their families. The second instance, we trained 103 women in arts and crafts and a good number of them are practicing their profession. In 2017, we resettled about 200, though some of them didn’t leave Kuchingoro, but we acquired farmlands for them in Nasarawa. We visited Wassa, Pegi and Orozo and started a farming extension, working with the National Youth Service Corps using modern farming procedures. We trained them how to farm in this side of the country which is a little different from where they came from. On a regular basis, we organised skill acquisition training for them, so on the whole, we have trained like 500 in the communities. We have supported some other NGOs to set up schools in other camps due to non-availability of funds and proximity.

Did you give financial support to the families that were resettled?

In most of the cases, it involves provision of seeds, not financial hand-out. We helped in acquiring herbicide for the farmers and in all cases, they had very good harvest and it is the seed grant that they have used to resettle themselves. What we have done is to provide the farm input and to speak to land owners in various communities to host them. These people are very hardworking, they are not lazy. What was most significant is that we were there for them and they got a good harvest. We were part of those who participated in the setting up of the beans market in Nyanya.

What has this cost you financially?

I may not be able to put a figure to it, but it has been huge on the part of trustees of Life Builders because they have borne the lion share of the expenditures. We have had support from friends and families, religious organisations and minimal support from government. It has been huge, it is in the region of tens of millions. What can we say? It’s been worthwhile because you can see the lives that have been transformed. In some of the places where we go to do medical intervention, it is a joy to see lives being transformed. In terms of cost, it has been huge; We also worked with the National Identity Management Commission to provide identity cards for the people. We can say we have achieved over 70 per cent enrollment in these communities in FCT.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]