Nigerians are not treated as citizens in Nigeria — Esuola
A political scientist, Dr Kayode Esuola, in this interview with TUNDE AJAJA, speaks on the import of Nigerians holding key positions at the United Nations for the country and way out of the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in South Africa

The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, said before the commencement of the United Nations General Assembly that Nigeria would not raise the issue of the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in South Africa at the UNGA because, according to him, it wasn’t beyond what Nigeria could handle. Do you think that decision was good?

I’m insinuating that what the minister would have said was that Nigeria could not raise the issue, instead of saying Nigeria would not raise the issue. But if he meant that Nigeria would not, I think he was being economical with words; the right thing is that Nigeria cannot raise that issue on the platform of the UN, because the world politics does not operate that way. You must have three things to be able to set agenda for the world, and by agenda I meant what UN would discuss at any of its meetings. The first thing is that you must be a wealthy nation; second is that you must have relative power structure aligned to yourself within the international system and the third is that you must have a voice. None of these three factors can be located within the Nigerian state. It is not enough for you to have a case; it is whether or not your case is strong enough to attract the attention of the powers that be and for them to put it on the agenda of the United Nations. The Yoruba has an adage that if you don’t have money; you are not a strong man (with psychic powers) and you can’t even defend yourself with your mouth, how do you survive in this world. That is the scenario, so that issue could not make it on the agenda of the UNGA.

Currently, a Nigerian, Prof Tijani Muhammad Bande, is the President of the United Nations General Assembly and a Nigerian, Mrs Amina Mohammed, is also the Deputy Secretary General of the United Nations, what is the import of Nigerians holding those key positions for Nigeria?

Absolutely no impact, and that is my view. It’s similar to the emergence of Barrack Obama as the then President of the United States and people were asking how it would benefit Africa. Years after he was the US President, how did that benefit Africa? No way. That you have Nigerians at the helm of affairs there is just a nomenclature; the power structure of the United Nations does not give them any advantage at all; power still rests on the Big Five. They have the veto power and that is why nations shake when they speak. And they are that big because of those three things I told you; wealth, power alignment within the international structure and they have a voice. So, I don’t see them making any impact over there, after all, are they there by virtue of achievement or by virtue of being sponsored by their country? In any event, let’s even assume that they have the capacity to make an impact, which impact are they going to make when the economy of their own country is in shambles; when the relationship between Nigeria and South Africa, for example, is parasitic. In the wake of new nationalism, we are beginning to see the end of globalism and globalisation itself; because now people are asking themselves if they are not supposed to come first before giving to others, and that is what is playing out, not only in South Africa, but many parts of the world.

Whether through diplomacy or political approach to the attacks, do you think Nigeria has handled the xenophobic attacks in Nigeria well enough?

I don’t think Nigeria has handled the issue in a way that an African nation should be able to handle it, and I’m picking these words deliberately. Nigeria is an African country and as an African nation, we have our own diplomatic approaches to issues. What I expected Nigeria to do was to capitalise on African method of resolving disputes, which is based on brotherhood, mutual understanding, communalism and spirituality, given the sacrifices that Africa as a continent has made to the world and riding on the sentiment of pan-Africanism as espoused by the forefathers of Africa. However, if Nigeria had put its house in order, I think we won’t get to the level where Nigerians would be moving en masse to another African country. That sends a very bad signal to the world and it could be a bad precedence. In fact, the summary is that the project of pan-Africanism has failed in the 21st century. Since South Africa did it, don’t be surprised if Ghana and even Republic of Benin act in similar manner. All these are happening because they know that your country treats its own citizens with disdain. If you have a country that values its citizens, they will respect your citizens elsewhere.

What is the lesson for the Federal Government?

The lesson the Federal Government should learn is to make Nigerians citizens in their own country. As of now, Nigerians are not treated as and they are not citizens in Nigeria; they are members of the public. In a country where leaders spend thousands of naira on newspapers and refreshments per day and then you pay N18,000 to fellow human beings as monthly minimum wage. If you have Nigerians as citizens in their country and they have no reason to be desperate to relocate, they won’t be treated with disdain outside. Of course, they will still travel, but they won’t be desperate and that xenophobic issue would have been solved without signing any paper and without shooting guns. If we don’t follow it up that way, this diplomacy will not work, and legal option is not an issue. It will never resolve the problem. It may be radical but that is a realistic approach to it.

Do you think there would be a time maybe in the future that this issue of xenophobia would be totally resolved or South Africans would always be xenophobic?

Given the situation of Nigeria today, it is not likely that we are going to see the end of xenophobia in South Africa very soon. There is a popular African proverb that says coming together for a get together is not exciting if some of the attendees lacked the wherewithal to contribute. Once relationship is parasitic, there will be reactions and counter-reactions. The reaction we are getting from South Africa as of today is xenophobia, but more fundamentally, it is because the relationship is parasitic. If the way South Africans would come to Nigeria for conferences or to invest is the same way Nigerians also go to South Africa for academic purpose, exchange of ideas and investment purpose only, we are not likely to get the reaction we are getting. But when you have a situation where Nigerians go to South Africa desperately; I mean people sell their properties to get South African visa, only to get there and be selling things on the street, then you would get the kind of reaction we are getting. With that kind of imbalanced relationship, they would naturally think you are taking advantage of their economy and they will react. Even in the international community, the logic of humanity is that of survival, and Nigerians should understand that. If only the Nigerian government would not let the Nigerian people go into slavery in other parts of the world; if only the government would know that N18,000 is not befitting of human beings as minimum wage; if only they would know that medical services, education and other essential facilities are sine qua non for any nation that wants to exist and be respected in the world, Nigerians would stop going to South Africa desperately and then xenophobia would die naturally. That is the only way, it would keep recurring.

Since the xenophobes in South Africa say they do not want foreigners in their country, is there a reason why they have refused to attack the whites among them instead of focusing on black nationals?

It is because they won’t see the whites as the source of their problem. It is the logic of survival. Also, don’t forget that on paper, the whites in South Africa are also South Africans, so officially, they have every reason to feel that they are part of them.

But there would be foreigners that would be whites among them.

Yes, there would be but the explanation is that when you know that the whites among you who are equally citizens are the owners of the industry where you work, they are the surgeons in the hospitals where they seek medical care, they are the directors of the banks where they get employment, so they are not likely to see them as part of their problem. Maybe we should identify the fact that the xenophobic attacks we are talking about happen among the wretched of the earth. There are many Nigerians who are professors in South African universities, there are very educated Nigerians in top positions and the xenophobes won’t attack them. But, we are referring to a particular class of people who are on the streets, jobless, uneducated and are desperately looking for daily survival. These are the people who are perpetrating this evil and the only people they can attack are people within the clan who they are competing with on that resource level and that explains why they don’t attack the white people among them.

A former Foreign Affairs Minister, Prof Bolaji Akinyemi, said Nigeria should sue at the International Court of Justice, even though the South African President later sent an envoy to Nigeria. Do you think Nigeria should go ahead and sue especially with projections that the attacks may not end?

There is a popular slogan in the society that the judiciary is the hope of the common man. I think that is the philosophy on which Nigeria is resting now from the point of view of Prof Akinyemi who says we should go to court. I don’t think it’s a crime committed by the South African government, so who are you going to sue? Will you sue the man on the street, who as a result of hunger and frustration continues to kill fellow African people? It is more of an issue that calls Nigeria into the challenge of being proactive towards its own economy. If all I do in South Africa is to address conferences or go for doctoral fellowship, I won’t be on the street where somebody would say I’m taking his job or looking at his woman. There would be mutual respect. That is the way the world system works. Foreigners ask questions and if they know that your country doesn’t place premium value on human life and that in your country you don’t deserve more than N18,000 as monthly minimum wage, they won’t value you too. They know you don’t have constant electricity, government does not keep to all its promises, among other things, and you expect such people to respect you? No. They look at you somehow, and all they want to say is that you should go back to your country and fix it. That’s the way I perceive it.

Do you think the xenophobic attack poses any threat to the African Continental Free Trade Agreement signed few months ago?

Even without the xenophobic attacks, some of us have our doubts over the agreement, because it is going to be one-sided and it would be parasitic. However, the xenophobic attack could be a setback.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]