Reps reject call for INEC to de-register parties
Leke Baiyewu, Abuja

The House of Representatives at the plenary on Thursday rejected a motion seeking to ask the Independent National Electoral Commission to de-register political parties.

The House based the decision on a Supreme Court judgment stripping INEC of the powers to do so.

A member, Mr Francis Uduyok, had moved a motion, entitled ‘Call on the Independent National Electoral Commission to Implement Section 78 (7) (ii) of the Electoral Act, 2010.’

Moving the motion, Uduyok noted that Section 78 (7) (ii) of the Electoral Act confers on INEC the powers to de-register political parties.

He said, “The aforementioned subsection clearly states that failure by any political party to win at least one seat in the National Assembly or a state House of Assembly will result in the de-registration of the said political party.

“Since the commencement of the Act, Section 78 (7) (ii) has not been fully implemented, given the rising number of political parties in Nigeria with neither a seat in either a state House of Assembly or the National Assembly.

“If Section 78 (7) (ii) of the Electoral Act is fully implemented, it would help to regulate numbers of political parties, reduce election costs, as well as reduce void votes caused by the inability of voters to comprehend the long list of political parties on the ballot papers.”

The lawmaker prayed the House to mandate the Committee on Electoral Matters to “investigate in order to ascertain the circumstances surrounding the non-implementation of Section 78 (7) (ii) of the Electoral Act, 2010, by INEC” and report back within four weeks for further legislative action.

The Chief Whip, Mohammed Monguno, however, called the attention of the lawmakers to the Supreme Court ruling against INEC on de-registration of parties.

The Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, upheld Monguno’s argument, urging the House to stand down the motion, which was unanimously approved.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]