PDP BoT, others to resolve grievances arising from Bayelsa, Kogi gov primaries
Success Nwogu, Abuja

The Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Walid Jibrin, has said the BoT and other relevant stakeholders in the party would resolve grievances arising from the governorship primary elections in Kogi and Bayelsa States.

He stated that it was imperative to resolve the disagreement, address the concerns of aggrieved former aspirants and party members so as to ensure a united and formidable party, able to win elections in the two states.

In an interview with our correspondent in Abuja on Friday, he stated that he had already commenced talks with some of the aggrieved governorship aspirants and members of the party in the States.

The BoT Chairman said he had discussed with a former Governor of Kogi State, Alhaji Ibrahim Idris, who is the father of one of the Kogi governorship aspirants, Abubakar; to address the concerns of Idris and Abubakar, who were believed to have been aggrieved over the outcome of the state PDP governorship primary.

READ ALSO: Sowore: DSS blocks two attempts by court bailiff to re-serve court order

The BoT Chairman also said he will continue to talk with the former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Mr. Timi Alaibe, who was an aspirant during the Bayelsa State PDP governorship primary.

Alaibe came second with 365 votes while the Senator representing Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, Mr. Douye Diri polled 561 votes to emerge the winner and consequently, the PDP Bayelsa State governorship candidate.

Alaibe has sued the party.

Jibrin said, “Some of the aggrieved contestants have gone to court, like Alaibe and Abubakar. They are two members of PDP. We are going to talk to them. I, as the Chairman of BoT have already discussed with Ibrahim Idris. We would have travelled together with Idris to Dubai, the United Arab Emirate to see the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, but unfortunately, we could not make it together. But I have continued to talk with him.

“I will also continue to talk with Alaibe and other aggrieved members. It has happened in the past and today we are one. Why should we be divided? Nobody should be allowed to leave this party. We encourage everybody to remain in this party and we must cooperate with each other to make the party stronger.”