Reps to inaugurate committees Wednesday, members’ list ready
Leke Baiyewu, Abuja

The House of Representatives will on Wednesday inaugurate the standing committees whose chairmen and deputy chairmen were appointed earlier.

The Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, had on July 25, shortly before adjourning the plenary till September 17 for the lawmakers to embark on annual recess, named leaders of the committees.

While the Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, presided over the plenary on Thursday, he announced that members of the committees had been listed and would be announced at the close of the session. He, however, did not make the announcement before adjournment.

Wase also said the leadership of the House would meet with chairmen and deputy chairmen of the committees to discuss methods of operation after their inauguration.

He said, “By the grace of God, at the end of this sitting today, the list of membership of committees will be released. We urge you to check the committees to know where you belong to.

“There will be inauguration on Wednesday next week, of the committees and at the same time, there will be a meeting between the leadership and the chairmen and deputies of these committees on Wednesday in the evening.”

In a related development, the House gave all ad hoc committees set up to carry out various investigations and interventions a deadline extension of two weeks to submit their reports.

Gbajabiamila had, on September 17, said, “All ad hoc committees (are) to wind up and hand over to standing committees by September 30th.”

Adopting a motion moved by the Deputy Majority Leader, Peter Akpatason, at the plenary on Thursday, the House resolved that the panels get additional two weeks to lay their reports.

Wase urged all ad hoc committees to comply with the resolution, warning that their non-compliance would attract serious consequences, as defaulting members would not be allowed to carry out any assignment in the House.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]