Niger PDP rejects fees imposed on LG candidates
Enyioha Opara, Minna

The Niger State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, on Wednesday, rejected the administrative charge imposed on candidates in the November 30 local government elections by the State Independent Electoral Commission, describing the action as unconstitutional.

The state Chairman of the party, Tanko Beji, told journalists in Minna that the party had written the SIEC to withdraw the decision, warning that if the commission failed to do so, the party would have no option but to test the veracity of the law in the court

The SIEC, in a memo by its Secretary, Abdullahi Bobi, to all the registered political parties in the state, asked all chairmanship and vice-chairmanship candidates contesting the election to pay an administrative charge of N100,000 each, while councillorship candidates would each pay N20,000.

The PDP, which is fielding 50 chairmanship and vice-chairmanship candidates as well as 274 councillorship candidates, is expected to pay N10.480m.

Beji stated, “We will not pay; we are not obliged to pay because it is not our responsibility to fund the public project. There is nowhere in the country that this is done.”

He challenged the SIEC to provide the date of passage of the law that backed the charges.

The PDP chairman asked, “Even if the law was passed, when did the assembly hold a public hearing before the passage of the law? As a public institution, we don’t think it is right for the commission to demand from individuals to pay money to it to enable it conduct election.”

“We aware that the state electoral commission submitted its budget to the state government and the government, we learnt, has graciously approved the budget. It is pursuant to that that the commission released the timetable for the election; it couldn’t have released the timetable without money to conduct the election.

“As a party, therefore, the PDP has resolved not to make any financial commitment to the commission to enable it conduct the election.”

Beji however said the PDP was ready to participate in the election in the forthcoming election.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]