Nigeria police ungrateful, ignorant, says CDHR
Samson Folarin

Members of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights, on Wednesday, protested against the invasion of their national secretariat at Ikeja, Lagos, by men of the Lagos State Police Command.

The protesters, who converged on the secretariat premises, sang solidarity songs as they displayed placards calling for respect for the constitutional rights of Nigerians.

The men and women lined up behind a banner with the inscription, ‘CDHR says September 18 unlawful police invasion of CDHR national secretariat is unacceptable and undemocratic. Stop harassment, intimidation and unlawful detention of human rights defenders in Nigeria. We demand explanation. Respect human rights, promote justice.”

The group, led by its President, Mr Malachy Ugwummadu; and National Secretary, Olayinka Folarin, marched through the streets before stopping at the police command headquarters, Ikeja.

Policemen from different formations in the state had last Wednesday laid siege to the CDHR office, which affected demonstration against the detention of the convener of the #RevolutionNow movement, Omoyele Sowore.

The police, who also surrounded the Ikeja office of online news medium, Sahara Reporters, said they were acting on intelligence and wanted to prevent a breakdown of law and order.

The protesters, however, said the excuse was an afterthought.

Ugwummadu said a petition had been sent to the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, adding that the letter had been received and acknowledged.

He said the group was scandalised that the police had yet to give an official explanation for the invasion.

He described the police action as a misadventure.

He said, “If the police have any sense of history, they ought to know that CDHR is the wrong place to visit in such a manner. A telephone call or even an invitation could have saved them this embarrassment.

“We are the oldest human rights oranisation in this country having been in existence for over three decades. We have organised a series of training for the police up till last year on issues of human rights.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]