APC govs form committee to resolve executive-legislative feud
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja

The governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress have set up a steering committee to ensure a smooth relationship between the executive and the legislative.

The Progressives Governors Forum Legislative Programme Steering Committee is chaired by the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, with the Katsina Governor, Aminu Masari, as co-chairman.

Obaseki told journalists on Tuesday at the inaugural meeting in Abuja that the committee would ensure the provision of necessary legal frameworks for the implementation of programmes and policies in the APC states.

Obaseki, who was represented by his deputy, Philip Shuaibu, promised that the APC states would implement programmes and policies to show it was different from other political parties, including the Peoples Democratic Party.

He said, “The PGF is set up to serve governors elected on the platform of the APC with the goal of mobilising all APC state governments to facilitate accelerated human development through undertaking of policies and programmes to improve the quality of life of citizens, eradicate poverty and create jobs in the country.

“The PGF Legislative Programme Steering Committee will primarily provide PGF members with clear and concise contextual recommendations in terms of legal framework governing government processes and decisions.

“The committee monitors ongoing government operations, identifies issues suitable for legislative review, gathers and evaluates information and recommends a course of action to PGF. It is also expected to promote and advocate the interest of the PGF member states regarding laws, regulations, socio-economic policies and other developments that may affect our states and the APC as a whole.”

Obaseki stressed that strong and progressive legislature was the backbone of any democracy.

He added that the committee would develop a framework of engagement that would enable the state governments to review emerging challenges regularly so that conflicts between the executive and the legislature at all levels where APC rules were minimised.

The governor said, “That does not mean that there would be no disagreements or conflicts any more in the future, because conflicts are inevitable outcomes of politics and political activities, but through the regular engagement and interactions between the Executive and the legislature, we will take steps to ensure that all emerging conflicts are resolved.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]