Senate raises fresh hopes on petroleum bill
Sunday Aborisade, Abuja

The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has assured Nigerians that the 9th Senate will improve on the activities of its predecessors by ensuring that the passage of the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill became a reality under his administration.

Lawan stated this on Tuesday while welcoming back his colleagues from a two-month recess.

The Senate President lamented that the bill had stayed too long in the National Assembly since its introduction and that the delay in concluding work on it was affecting the petroleum sector.

He said, “The petroleum industry is long overdue for reform. Several efforts and attempts were made in the past three sessions of the National Assembly, but they were unfortunately not successful. It however remains a legislation that should succeed.

“We are going to redouble our efforts at the reform by doing things differently this time. The previous efforts were lone efforts either on the part of the executive, as witnessed in the 6th and 7th National Assemblies, or the part of the legislature, as seen in the 8th Assembly.”

Lawan pledged that the 9th Senate would work with the executive to tackle the growing rate of youth unemployment in the country.

He stated that the parliament would key into the agenda of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s determination to take 100 million Nigerians out of poverty.

He said, “Youth unemployment is yet another challenge we cannot allow to continue. Youths are ideally a present and a future fulcrum of a nation’s workforce. They are therefore a priceless asset of a nation’s population.

“While noting the ongoing reform in the agricultural sector, an improved agricultural roadmap could make the sector attractive to our youths and then contribute to resolving the problem of youth unemployment.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]