Reps seek Lokoja-Okene-Auchi road repairs
Leke Baiyewu, Abuja

The House of Representatives has urged the Federal Government to rehabilitate the Lokoja-Okene-Auchi Road, which runs through Edo and Kogi states and Gwaram-Misau in Bauchi State.

The House made the call, following the adoption of two separate motions on the roads during plenary on Wednesday.

On the first motion moved by Yusuf Tijani from Kogi State, the lawmakers unanimously urged the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing to, as a matter of urgency, commence rehabilitation of the road, while mandating the Committee on Works to ensure compliance.

On the Gwaram-Misau road, the House urged the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency to commence repairs on the road, while also urging the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to make provision in the 2020 budget estimates for the construction and reconstruction of rural roads to enhance the socio-economic growth in the area.

The lawmakers further urged the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing to initiate the dualisation of the 252km Wudil-Kari Highway and make provisions for it in the 2020 budget.

They also mandated the House committees on FERMA and Works to ensure compliance.

Tijani said, “The Lokoja-Okene-Auchi Road, which is the major link between the northern and the southern parts of Nigeria, connecting seven states in the country, and is the gateway to Ajaokuta Steel Company as well as Itakpe Iron Ore Mining Company of Nigeria, is under serious threat of being washed off by gully erosion with over 70 per cent already devastated by the menace.

“The road has suffered the worst form of neglect in the history of road maintenance and rehabilitation in Nigeria, despite having featured in successive budgets for over a decade, among capital projects to be undertaken.”

Kani Faggo from Bauchi State, moving his motion, said the 73km Gwaram-Misau federal road had deteriorated to such an extent that it had become a death trap.

…urge revamp cocoa institute

Meanwhile, the House of Representatives has urged the Federal Government to revamp the moribund Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria, Uhonmora Substation, Edo State.

The House, at the plenary on Wednesday, adopted a motion moved by Julius Ihonvbere from the state, and resolved to urge the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and the Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria to propose a workable agenda for revamping the substation at Uhonmora, Edo State.

The lawmakers also urged the Federal Government to upscale the institute’s budgetary allocation to fast-track the revival of research activities at the substation that had been grounded.

They also urged the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing to carry out works at the various buildings, health facility and staff quarters as well as road leading to the substation.

Furthermore, the House urged the Federal Ministries of Works and Housing, and Science and Technology to provide standard research equipment needed for the effective functioning of the substation, while mandating the Committee on Agricultural Colleges and Institutions to ensure implementation of the resolutions.

Ihonvbere, while moving the motion, noted that the agricultural sector presented Nigeria with the opportunity to diversify its economy in line with the vision of the Federal Government to reduce overdependence on oil as the major source of revenue.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]