Kogi elections: Adeyemi wants EFCC, ICPC to monitor cash movements
Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja

The Director General, Bello/Onoja campaign organisation, Smart Adeyemi has called on anti-corruption agencies; Independent Corrupt Practices Commission and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to monitor cash movement in the state ahead of the November 16 elections in Kogi State.

Adeyemi, who made the call on Friday in Lokoja at a press briefing said that their presence was needed to monitor the quantum of money being allegedly stockpiled by the Peoples Democratic party to compromise the election to its advantage.

He said, “Investigations conducted by the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC into why PDP is neither campaigning nor engaging it in any way showed clearly that they were stockpiling huge sums of money to compromise the electoral umpire and the judiciary after losing the election.”

READ ALSO: Presidency admits laying off Osinbajo’s aides

“A politician from South-West has pledged a huge donation to PDP with a view to destabilise the electoral process and buy over the judiciary. We in APC will not fold our arms and allow anyone to impose unpopular governor and senator over us.”

Adeyemi said that PDP rather than spending money on campaigning was stockpiling money to compromise the election.

“That is why you can’t see their posters, billboards, or handbills anywhere in the state,” he said.

He added that the only conclusion that can be drawn from PDP’s seeming inactivity is that they have a hidden agenda, “but I can assure you we will not allow it.”

He called on parents to caution their children and wards not to allow themselves to be used to perpetrate electoral fraud and violence.

“We in APC want a peaceful election but we need to draw the attention of the whole world to this plan of PDP” he noted.

However, the spokesman for Musa Wada/Sam Aro campaign organisation, Faruk Adejoh described APC and Adeyemi’s allegations as laughable, saying it shows that they are jittery because of the reality staring them in the face.

“We don’t even have money to campaign not to talk of stockpiling for any purpose. They are the ones with all the money with which they are buying thugs here and there” Adejoh said.

He added, “Governor Bello has collected about N540 billion in the last four years with nothing to show for it in terms of infrastructure. They know that their day of reckoning is fast approaching, that is why they are crying wolf where there is none.”