I’d have lost if Appeal Court judgment was for highest bidder —Abia Rep
Leke Baiyewu, Abuja

The lawmaker representing Ikwuano/Umuahia North/South Federal Constituency of Abia State in the House of Representatives, Samuel Onuigbo, has said he would have lost his legislative seat if the Appeal Court judgment affirming his electoral victory on Friday was for the highest bidder.

Onuigbo, in a statement, noted that the judgment brings to an end the “legal distractions.”

The lawmaker said, “The actions of the judges, from the tribunal to the Appeal Court, are worthy of commendation. They demonstrated unparalleled professionalism and thoroughness in the way they handled the judgments; and showed that the judiciary is the hope of the common man. If this was a judgment for the highest bidder, I would have lost and the hopes of the good people of Ikwuano/Umuahia North/South Federal Constituency for effective representation dashed.”

Onuigbo said he would now continue to focus on his hallmark of effective and responsive representation.

READ ALSO: ECOWAS: Osinbajo jets out to Niger

“More than ever, I am committed to changing the face of representation in Ikwuano/Umuahia North/South, and I make you this promise today, that when we are done, we would have set a standard in representation that shall be the envy of many,” he said.

Onuigbo added, “While I saw the many legal tussles initiated to try and steal my victory as mere distractions, considering the resounding way my people voted for me, at no point in time did I ever let my foot off the gas in my commitment to deliver unparalleled representation to the great people of Ikwuano/Umuahia North/South.

“If anything, I became more vocal and more relentless in the pursuit of everything good for my people. It is this remarkable and in-built burning desire for selfless and result-oriented service that the people of our constituency saw in me, and largely agreed that I should be re-elected to represent them for a second time – a first for the constituency.”

Onuigbo added that as a ranking member of the House, he had more opportunities and better experience to do exceedingly great for his people, while all his actions since he set his foot on the House had been geared towards doing that.