Ninth assembly and its ambitious legislative reforms
In this report, Leke Baiyewu examines the ambitious legislative reforms proposed by the 9thHouse of Representatives and asks whether it will go the way of past failed reform programmes

The House of Representatives on October 11, 2019, launched an ambitious reform called the Legislative Agenda for the 9th National Assembly.

Before then, the House had on October 3 adopted a report by the Ad Hoc Committee on the Legislative Agenda led by a ranking member and a professor, Julius Ihonvbere.

Earlier on July 14, 2019, when he led a House delegation to assess the effects of banditry on Zamfara State, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, had hinted that lawmakers would be asked to recite the national pledge due to its strong wordings and meanings.

“I’m here on one mission but before we head into that, I’m going to deliberately ask us to recite the national pledge and I hope we are all familiar with the language and the powerful content of the national pledge,” Gbajabiamila said.

Later on September 17, 2019, a mild drama played out over the national pledge when the House resumed from a two-month annual recess. After saying the opening prayer, Gbajabiamila had asked the lawmakers to recite the national pledge.

The Speaker later in his opening address declared that henceforth, members of the House would be reciting the national pledge, in addition to the prayer, at the opening of every plenary.

“Today, we recited the national pledge, which is now part of our recitals at the beginning of every sitting. This will help inculcate the spirit of nation building even in our subconscious,” he had said.

In the Legislative Agenda, the Gbajabiamila-led House listed a number of key reforms, both for the lower chamber of the National Assembly and Nigeria as a country, some of which would require an amendment of the Constitution.

The document said the agenda “is a declaration of our intent to serve Nigeria with dedication, focusing our considerable energies on those issues that most affect the lives of our citizens.”

The issues, as listed on the agenda of the lawmakers, include the insertion of the national pledge in the House Standing Orders and other amendments; engagement of critical stakeholders on early national budget presentation and passage, deployment of Information and Communication Technology in legislative activities at the plenary and committee sittings; as well as recognition and honouring of patriotic Nigerians.

Some other reforms are the creation of community police, opening up of the finances of the House to the public, special corruption courts and the separation of the Federal Ministry of Justice from the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation.

The lawmakers are also proposing redemption of the image of the National Assembly in the eye of the Nigerian public.

The House said in the document that the members were elected at a time in the country’s history “when we are confronted with great peril and even greater opportunity to turn around our nation’s fortunes and put us back on the path to genuine peace, and progress that impacts on all, rather than just a privileged few.”

The House also stated that members were determined that over the duration of their tenure, “every legislative action we take will have an identifiable positive benefit on the lives of the Nigerian people on whose behalf, and at whose pleasure we serve.”

On ethics and code of conduct, the lawmakers said they would seek to rebuild and restore citizens’ confidence in the legislative institution by adopting far-reaching ethical codes for the 9th House, including to conduct their financial affairs in a transparent manner and maintain a high level of integrity, discipline and moral principles at all times.

They also resolved to “conduct themselves so as to reflect the position and inspire confidence, respect, trusts of colleagues and the public; avoid attacking the motives of fellow legislators including making ridiculous use of abusive and ‘unparliamentary’ language and unfair comments about colleagues on the basis of ethnicity, religious or political affiliation; and conduct their financial affairs in such a transparent manner that leaves no room for the assumption or possibility of corruption by special interests.”

The House stated that for decades, corruption had been the bane of the country’s national development.

“We have seen the policy-making process distorted and compromised to produce policy outcomes expressly designed to serve the interests of the few at the expense of the many, whilst resources for development and security, healthcare and education are diverted to enrich the private interests of public officials,” the document further read in part.

According to the lawmakers, the private sector has not been spared as corruption has continued to limit its ability to make the breakthrough required for industrialisation and growth.

The House stated that, “until we put in place a system that punishes acts of public corruption quickly and decisively, the Nigerian people will never be convinced of our commitment to rid ourselves of corrupt tendencies. Until we have rid ourselves of corruption, our national growth will remain stunted by the actions of those who will choose to place personal interests over the public trust.”

According to the House, a fundamental problem with anti-corruption law enforcement in Nigeria is that the laws used to prosecute and charge public corruption are often not designed primarily for that purpose.

“Prosecutors are left to repurpose anti money laundering laws and other such financial crimes legislation to prosecute public corruption,” the lawmakers said.

They proposed working with the Nigeria Bar Association, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, and the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission to design a new ‘Omnibus Corruption and Racketeering in Public Service’ law that would allow expedited indictment and prosecution of public officials suspected of acts of misappropriation, misconduct or criminality, however defined.

The document also read, “The House will further examine the possibility of establishing, through legislation and/or constitutional amendment, special courts for the prosecution of public corruption cases under the proposed Omnibus Corruption and Racketeering in Public Service law in the same way that special tribunals are used for election petition matters. The special courts will allow for an expedited process of investigation, indictment and prosecution to allow for rapid dispensation of these matters.

“The House will seek to amend the EFCC Act to allow appointment of qualified persons from the judiciary, academia, legal practice, etc., to lead the commission instead of the current practice that allows for only current or former security and law enforcement personnel to be appointed to chair the commission.

“The House will seek to increase funding to the EFCC and the ICPC for recruitment of lawyers and forensic accountants with expertise in investigation and prosecution of crimes of financial misappropriation and public corruption. We will further seek, through legislation, to ensure that the commissions can engage foreign and local experts and partners to aid in the investigation and prosecution of crimes.”

On separation of powers in the anti-corruption drive, the House will, as part of the constitutional amendment process, seek to “separate the office of the Minister of Justice from that of the Attorney General (of the Federation), where the former will remain a political appointment at the discretion and direction of the President, whereas the latter will be a career position filled by a qualified career officer of the Ministry of Justice prosecutorial cadre.

“This amendment will eliminate the current public perception that the Minister of Justice exercises political control of prosecutorial decisions of the Ministry of Justice and will go a long way to restoring public confidence in the administration of justice.”

Part of the measures to be taken by the lawmakers on security is the backing of the community police strategy, stating that they would monitor the implantation closely to prevent its abuse.

The document read, “The House acknowledges the recent efforts of the Nigerian Police Force to adapt and implement a National Community Policing Strategy within the current federal police framework. This House will encourage these efforts through legislation and appropriations in line with current needs.

“Furthermore, this House will engage in continuous monitoring and evaluation of implementation efforts to ensure that the objectives of the strategy are met, that abuses are prevented. The House will continue to work ardently with the Nigerian police force to improve the performance and public perception of the force.”

On the media, the House said Nigeria is daily suffering from the consequences of “tainted and incompetent media reporting,” decrying that dissemination of propaganda that appeal to emotion rather than credible conversations, based on fact and unbiased information, had become the standard for the media.

As part of their legislative action, the House said they would continually interface and engage the press corp to “redress the seemingly negative public perception of the House’s activities by ensuring accurate and factual reportage.”

The agenda also read, “The House will review all laws regulating media practice in Nigeria with the objective of amending them to meet current realities and global best practices. The House will work with relevant agencies to manage the role of social media, particularly where it concerns fake news, cybercrime, and the manipulation of data for ulterior purposes. The House will facilitate the completion and take-off of dedicated radio and television stations created to cover the activities of the National Assembly exclusively.”

Speaking on the agenda, the Executive Director, Civil Society Legislative and Advocacy Centre, a non-governmental, non-profit legislative advocacy, information sharing and research organisation, Mr Auwal Musa, commended the House for coming up with an agenda with which the public could hold the lawmakers accountable.

He, however, warned the parliament against putting too much on the table at a time.

“It is not just about coming up with an agenda, it is also about ensuring that the agenda is complied with and followed through,” he said.

Musa also said the House had listed “so many issues” the lawmakers were going to address. He stated that it is only when there is seriousness and focus that the goals can be achieved. He noted, “It is a huge situation that they have put themselves because they are talking about the issues of reforming the House, social justice, power, environment and climate change, economic growth and development, job creation, gender equality, anti-corruption and sustainable agricultural development and food security.”

The human rights activist, however, stated that open governance, transparency and accountability are “one of the major things that we really want to see.”

He added, “I will like to see how the National Assembly can focus on reforming and redeeming the integrity of the institution. I want them to focus on ‘Open NASS’ because one of the major challenges is that there is too much secrecy and lack of adequate information about what goes on in the different National Assembly committees.”

He further said, “Again, let them not be too over ambitious about bills because I saw that just within three months, there were about 300 bills introduced. These bills are not necessarily the most important thing in the legislative work. Some of the bills are not properly examined not to contradict the Nigerian Constitution. So, instead of focusing attention on coming up with bills, they should actually focus more on ensuring that oversight is transparently and respectively carried out to ensure that the people actually benefit from democracy. Poor budget implementation is also as a result of poor legislative oversight.”

Musa also called on the National Assembly to focus more on strengthening the laws and policies governing the health and education sectors “by providing them with the enabling resources.”

He stated, “If they can only be able to pick up these few issues – around education, health and open governance, transparency and accountability– they would have been able to achieve a lot. They don’t need to focus their energy on everything.”

Also speaking on the agenda, the Executive Director, Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre, and Convener, Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room, Mr Clement Nwankwo, noted that it was the first time a federal parliament would be documenting the goals it sets to achieve.

Nwankwo said, “It is a very important agenda, that they have defined what they would like to achieve in a four-year period. It would be the first time that they (lawmakers) would on their own initiative, be producing a legislative agenda. So, I think it is really important that they have it and I am happy that the National Assembly – both the House and the Senate have been able to come up with an agenda.”

When asked if the agenda was achievable, the human rights lawyer, said, “The legislative agenda is a set of aspirations that the House or the Senate would like to see happen. The 8th Assembly saw a lot of friction in relation to the relationship between the executive and the legislature. Now, this legislative leadership matched some significant inputs from the executive, so our hope is that the advantage of the cordial relationship between the executive and the legislature to achieve the goals set in the legislative agenda. I am sure that if they are determined, they will be able to achieve them.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]