APC, toothless bulldog, can’t win in Bayelsa –Dickson
Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa

The Governor of Bayelsa State, Mr Seriake Dickson, has said the All Progressives Congress is “a toothless bulldog” that lacks the capacity to win any free and fair election in the state.

According to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Fidelis Soriwei, on Monday, Dickson said this while addressing a meeting of the Governorship Campaign Advisory Council of the state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party held on Sunday night in Yenagoa.

The governor stated that the APC was known for deploying thuggery, ballot stuffing, hijacking of electoral materials and political violence as strategies for winning elections in the state.

Dickson alleged that “this much played out even in the recent governorship primary election of the APC when the principle of fair play was jettisoned for personal interest.”

The governor boasted that the next governor of the state, to whom he will hand over, would be elected on the platform of the PDP on February 14, 2020.

He assured stakeholders of the party that all knotty issues would be resolved ahead of the governorship election.

The governor said, “Let me congratulate all our party members on a very successful, peaceful and orderly primary that our party conducted.

“If you can juxtapose that with what happened in the APC, you will find out that they never really held any primaries because they are used to writing results whether in the general elections or their own primary election.”

The stakeholders’ meeting also had in attendance the standard-bearer of the PDP, Senator Douye Diri, and some of the former aspirants, including Keniebi Okoko, Nimbofa Ayaowei, Benson Agadaga, and the reinstated Secretary to the State Government, Kemela Okara.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]