Tribunals affirm Ihedioha, Masari governorship elections
Ade Adesomoju

The Katsina and Imo State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunals on Saturday affirmed the elections of governors Aminu Masari of Katsina State and Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State.

While Masari is of the All Progressives Congress, Ihedioha is of the Peoples Democratic Party.

The two separate tribunals sat and delivered their judgments in Abuja.

The three-man tribunal which sat over the Katsina electoral dispute had a split decision of two-to-one with the majority dismissing the petition filed by Yakubu Lado of the PDP challenging Masari’s victory at the March 9, 2019 governorship poll.

In their majority judgment, Justice Dele Omotosho and Justice A.I Ityonuyiman, held that the petitioners failed to prove the allegations of non-compliance with the Electoral Act which they alleged marred the conduct of the poll.

They held that the petitioners provided no cogent evidence to back their petition.

They also contended that contrary to the peiitioners’ claim, Masari was qualified to contest the Katsina governorship election.

They added that the name Aminu Bello Masari was the same as Aminu Masari, and that the governor was not bound to disclose certain number of names in his form submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission.

But in her minority judgment, the chairman of the tribunal, Justice Hadiza Jos, nullified Masari’s election and ordered the INEC to conduct a fresh one within 90 days.

The tribunal chairman who was absent at the proceedings had her dissenting judgment delivered by Justice Omotosho.

Although she held that the petitioners failed to prove the allegation of substantial non-compliance with the Electoral Act, she ruled that Masari was not qualified to contest the election because of alleged irregularity in the governor’s name.

She held that Aminu Masari was different from Aminu Bello Masari.

The Imo State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal also on Saturday dismissed three petitions challenging Ihedioha’s victory at the March 9, 2019 poll.

The three petitions were filed by the All Progressives Grand Alliance and its candidate, Ifeanyi Arareume, Action Alliance Party, and its candidate Mr Uche Nwosu, as well as the All Progressives Congress and its candidate, Hope Uzodinma.

The three-man tribunal led by Justice Malami Dogondaji unanimously held that the petitions lacked merit.

The tribunal also held that the petitioners failed to prove that Ihedioha was unlawfully declared as the governor of the state by INEC.

Justices Aminu Saad and Idaat Moji-Sule were members of the panel.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]