2019 election worst in Nigeria history —Gunmi
Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna

Renowned Islamic scholar and preacher, Sheikh Ahmed Gunmi, on Thursday, said the last general elections in which President Muhammadu Buhari was declared winner, remained the worst in Nigeria’s history.

According to the Islamic cleric, video evidence made available to him showed that few people generated millions of votes in the last polls.

Gunmi stated this when he played host to the General Overseer of the Evangelical Bible Outreach Ministry, Jos, and the Convener of the Movement of Initiative of a Brighter and Better Nigeria, Prophet Isa El-Buba, at his Kaduna residence on Thursday.

He noted that the current Buhari-led government of the All Progressives Congress claimed it was fighting corruption, yet allegedly rode on corruption to return to power.

The cleric also said Buhari had damaged the economy such that it would take 40 years to rebuild.

Gunmi said, ‘The last election was the worst ever. Election should never be rigged again. We invited the INEC, APC and PDP, and told them, ‘This is what we will do to stop rigging in 2015.’ When the election came, we realised we were handicapped because Nigerians were ignorant but they failed to realise that Nigerians could create an independent poll.

“In 2015, we saw that INEC was not ready for a flawless election. Then another government came with the mantra of change and anti-corruption. I expected the 2019 election to be neat, but I found it to be the worst I have ever witnessed.

“Many people came to me from all over the country; some came with videos and told me those millions of votes you see were coming from just a few hundreds.

“When the results were announced, they said, ‘We told you.’ So, what is the card reader meant for? How can you say you are fighting corruption and you are riding on corruption to come back and create economic damage that will take maybe 40 years to correct?”

Earlier, while speaking, El-Buba hailed Gummi for being one of the leading lights of the present generation.

He commended the Islamic cleric for standing out to be counted as those that stood for the truth.

El-Buba said, “I really want to commend you for standing out to speak the truth, not just to the authorities, but also to the followers.

READ ALSO: How corruption crippled Nigeria’s power sector –Report

“With the situation of things in the country, we need to put our minds together and salvage the country. We cannot continue to leave the control of things in the hands of politicians, if not, it will continue like this.

“I have traversed the whole country and the North is worst. Things are degenerating the more; the poverty is unbearable.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]