Elumelu: Confusion as PDP BoT chair, secretary disagree
Success Nwogu, Abuja

The Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Jibrin Walid and the Secretary of the BoT, Senator Adolphus Wabara, on Thursday sharply disagreed over the submission of the report of the Senator Iyorchia Ayu Committee to the National Working Committee of the party.

Walid during a media briefing after the meeting of the BoT insisted that the report had not been submitted to the party’s NWC but that they had discussed and it was not completed. However, Wabara, who is a former Senate President, said the report was discussed on Thursday during the BoT meeting and that it was later submitted to the NWC.

The PDP National Working Committee had on July 5, suspended for a month, the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Mr Ndudi

Elumelu and five other Rep members were suspended for “indiscipline, insubordination and disobedience to the party directives,” after the emergence of Elumelu as the Minority Leader contrary to the party’s wish.

Other PDP Reps who were suspended include Wole Oke, Lynda Ikpeazu, Anayo Edwin, Gideon Gwani, Toby Okechukwu and member Adekoya Abdul-Majid.

READ ALSO: Ishaku backing plot to wipe us out –Tiv

Jibrin said, “We have not concluded the report. We have not submitted the report to the national chairman please. When we finish we will let you know. That thing is not completed. I am the chairman of the BoT. I have not submitted any report to anybody yet. We have not concluded work on it. We discussed it but it is not concluded.”

But Wabara said, “My chairman mentioned it. The report he referred to is the Iyorchia Ayu report on the (House) leadership. The BoT considered the report today. Do not forget that the national chairman of the party and the national secretary are members of the BoT. So the BoT considered the report and handed the report to the NWC.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]