Anti-graft agencies will bring back contractors —AbdulRazaq
Tunde Oyekola

Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has said his administration may use some anti-graft agencies, including the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission to get non-performing contractors handling federal and state projects in the state back on sites.

AbdulRazaq said this on Tuesday while inspecting government facilities in Kaiama, Kwara North senatorial zone of the state.

According to a statement by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye, AbdulRazaq was reacting to an allegation made by the Emir of Kaiama, Alhaji Omar Mu’azu, that the contractor handling Kaiama/Kishi Road had abandoned the road after being paid “a huge sum of money.”

Among the communities visited by the governor were Gwaria, a major hub for yam flour production in Nigeria; Junga Aboki and Kaiama town — all in Kaiama Local Government Area of the state.

The governor told the emir that he had taken up the matter with the Federal Government, adding that his administration might report the contractor employed by the previous administration to the anti-graft agencies for collecting at least N1.1bn to fix a segment of the road without any result.

AbdulRazaq was quoted as saying, “The action of the contractor was a setback for the road as the Federal Government would not release further funds for the road unless it is satisfied that the one released had been properly utilised.

“The same scenario had occurred in the Gwanara Road in Baruten, which led to the Eighth Assembly dragging the contractor to the EFCC and forcing the contractor back to site,” he added.

Speaking on the execution of state projects, the governor said local communities would have the option of nominating trusted indigenous contractors to fix their schools and hospitals while government funds the projects.

AbdulRazaq explained that the government had recently retooled the 2019 budget to focus on rebuilding basic infrastructure such as township roads, schools, hospitals and toilets to tackle the menace of open defecation.

The governor, meanwhile, ordered the site engineer handling the Kaiama Water project to fix the facilities within one month or be sacked.

AbdulRazaq handed down the directive when he visited the facilities in Kaiama town, warning that he would always personally keep tabs on projects funded with taxpayers’ money through unscheduled visits.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]