Ekiti PDP, EKSIEC bicker over status of electoral body’s chairman
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Peoples Democratic Party in Ekiti State on Thursday alleged that the Chairman of the Ekiti State Independent Electoral Commission, Justice Jide Aladejana, was a dismissed judge and a moral burden to the electoral body.

The PDP, in a statement by its state Publicity Secretary, Jackson Adebayo, queried how an allegedly “dismissed judge in the state judiciary could be made to head a sensitive body saddled with the conduct of local government elections in the midst of many qualified Ekiti sons and daughters.”

Adebayo added, “The governor should explain to the people of the state why he has appointed a dismissed judge and card-carrying members of the APC as members of EKSIEC against the provision of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.

“All attempts by the dismissed judge to overturn his dismissal was overruled by courts at different levels, hence he is not qualified to conduct elections for the local government where people of integrity will contest.”

The PDP also alleged that some of the EKSIEC members, including Soji Oloketuyi, were card-carrying members of “the ruling party, which he is till today and also a member of the electoral body.”

But EKSIEC, while describing the allegation as “spurious” and “baseless,” said it came few months to the elections, adding that it was targeted at distracting the commission and derailing the electoral process.

Oloketuyi, who is the EKSIEC Commissioner in Charge of Media, said, “To the best of my knowledge, Justice Aladejana was never dismissed from the bench. He remains one of the most credible Ekiti men with dignity, so to us, we consider this a distraction.”

The EKSIEC commissioner also said he and other members were “eminently qualified” to be members of the electoral body, contrary to the position of the PDP, insisting that he was never a card-carrying member of any political party.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]