Ekiti APC rejects tribunal verdict on Senator Adeyeye
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Chairman, Ekiti South Senatorial District of All Progressives Congress, Akin Akinbobola, said on Wednesday that the sack of the Senate Committee Chairman on Media and Public Affairs, Senator Adedayo Adeyeye, by the Election Petitions Tribunal in Ado Ekiti amounted to truncating the people’s desire.

Akinbobola said last week’s judgment of the tribunal which upturned Adeyeye’s victory was “strange and a clear negation of the wishes of the people and electorates in Ekiti South Senatorial District.”

The chairman, who spoke at Omuo Ekiti, Ekiti East Council, during a meeting of the APC stakeholders in the district said, “The judgment was a travesty of justice. APC won the February 23, 2019 senatorial election in this district fair and square.”

READ ALSO: Osinbajo’s office has been rendered useless, impotent —Afenifere

The three-man election petition tribunal headed by Justice Danladi Adeck, had in its judgement, after a recount, cancelled votes in some units across the six Local Government Areas in the district and consequently declared the Peoples Democratic Party candidate, Senator Biodun Olujimi, the winner.

Akinbobola said, “We are surprised by the outcome of the tribunal. We reject it and it will not stand the test of time, because the people voted for APC. The outcome was meant to rob us of victory, put our party in disarray and as well raise unnecessary dust in the area”.

An APC youth leader in Ekiti East, Gbade Olusegun, who said Adeyeye emerged through a transparent and credible election added, “The tribunal had delivered its verdict, but we are sure that the celebration by the opposition members would be shortlived. We will not allow the mandate given to Adeyeye be stolen by PDP.”

APC Woman leader, Rachael Ibukun, expressed hope that the Court of Appeal would do justice in the matter, saying, “The judiciary is supposed to be the hope of the common man and we are confident that what the opposition has now is a pyrrhic victory.”