Edo crisis, mere politics of interest — Deputy Speaker
Sola Shittu, Benin

The Deputy Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, Mr Yekini Idiaye, on Wednesday described the crisis rocking the Assembly as politics of interest.

Idiaye, who stated this in Benin while speaking with journalists, said contrary to public and the media perception, there was no acrimony or bitterness among the lawmakers and their leaders.

The deputy speaker spoke against the backdrop of a recent outburst by a former governor of the state, Adams Oshiomhole.

Speaking on his victory in court, Idiaye said the verdict was for democracy and the people, including members-elect who were still out of the Assembly.

He explained that he only went to court to test the law as it concerned the issuing of fresh proclamation by the governor for the inauguration of the House of Assembly as being demanded by some people.

He said, “The case is just to set the record straight and to be a reference point. You know the issue of proclamation for the inauguration by the governor has not been tested in a court of law.

“So, I think since the issue on ground borders on people asking the governor to issue fresh proclamation for the inauguration of the House of Assembly, I said okay, let’s go and test it in the court of law.

“So, I was hopeful that it will be in my favour. I think it is victory for democracy; it is for all of us both myself and my colleagues outside because I know definitely they will come and join us to move Edo State forward.

“Edo State is not in crisis; there is peace in Edo State. We are all brothers, even our colleagues who are not here. What is happening is just politics of interest; you know in politics there is no permanent enemy and no permanent friend.”

The deputy speaker, who was a former commissioner, said the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress, remained a father and leader to all politicians in Edo State and that he laid the foundation upon which they were building.

He said, “As a father and leader, I know he will not allow it to collapse. He was in charge of labour before he became governor. He is highly intelligent. I know he will do everything possible to see that the house does not collapse.He is the father of all and I know he still remains the father.”

He said irrespective of the hot exchange of words and the heat in Edo State politics, there were underground moves by well meaning politicians to ensure peace reigned in the state.

He said, “I know they (the lawmakers elect) will all come very soon. We are in contact; I spoke with two of them yesterday. Remember we are colleagues and friends, so there is no bitterness between us as being portrayed in the media.

“If I see any of them today, we will eat and drink together; there is nothing personal, its just interest as I said earlier. I am not the only one talking to them, I know Edo State people are also talking to them.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]