Nasarawa assembly nullifies creation of village, district areas
Umar Muhammed, Lafia

The Nasarawa State House of Assembly has nullified the purported creation of additional village and district areas in the state.

It called on the state government to set up a panel to investigate the matter in the interest of peace.

The Speaker of the House, Mr Ibrahim Abdullahi, read the resolutions after the Chairman, House Committee on Local Government and Cheiftaincy Affairs, Mr Mohammed Alkali, informed the House of the purported creation of additional district areas in the state.

He asked the people of the state to disregard the purported gazette in circulation on the creation of additional districts.

He said, “First and foremost, I want to appreciate Mr Mohammed Alkali and the entire members for their contributions to this issue.

“It is very sad that somebody will just sit in the comfort of his office to come up with this document.

“If you will come out with a law for the creation of village and district areas, who makes the law, it is the House and why should somebody sit down and do the job of the legislators?

“I have agreed with your various contributions that this document is criminal and unacceptable and should be condemned.

“It is in view of this that our resolutions is to the effect that first, the purported gazette creating additional district and village areas in Nasarawa State stands nullified.

“Secondly, the purported gazette should be retrieved from circulation and no value should be attached to such a document henceforth.

“Thirdly, the list of additional district and village areas should be forwarded to the Nasarawa State House of Assembly in line with the powers conferred on the Nasarawa State House of Assembly by the 1999 constitution, as amended.

“If the executive arm of government is desirious of creating more district areas, it should display fairness and justice in its action.

“Finally, government must constitute a panel to carry out an investigation with a view to unravelling those involved in this criminal act and punitive measures should be taken against those involved.”

Earlier, Alkali while raising the issue said the House was not aware of the gazette.

He called for investigation in order to bring the actors and perpetrators of the said document to face the full wrath of the law.

The House unanimously supported the nullification of the document in the interest of peace.

The gazette for the creation of additional districts and village areas in Nasarawa State was signed into law in May, 2019.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]