PDP Senator dumps party, joins APC
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja

A member of the Sixth Senate, who represented Bayelsa East Senatorial district between 2007 and 2011 on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party, Sen. Nimi Barigha-Amange, on Wednesday gave notice of his intention to join the ruling All Progressives Congress.

He stated this in a letter to the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, which was submitted to the Acting National Secretary, Victor Giadom, on Wednesday.

Barigha-Amange, who said he had resigned his membership from his former party said he was moving with members of his political family, all members of Destiny Movement and SIG Elite Foundation of Nembe and Brass local government areas.

He said his decision to defect to the APC was due to the authoritarian attitude of Governor Seriake Dickson.

“When I was in PDP, we were enslaved by only one man who regarded himself as emperor. There were no political activities there even if you want to be a Councillor. The 105 councillors were nominated by him. The eight chairmen were nominated by him, so, I cannot be part.

“I was one of the founding fathers of PDP in Bayelsa State. I did not join the PDP, I took part in the formation of PDP here in August 1998 and I have been there since. But I have never seen this kind of authoritarian rule. So, I have decided to pitch my tent with a party that can uproot this bottom from the ground, so that, Bayelsans will be freed, and I promise you, Bayelsans will be freed come November 16, 2019,” he said.

When asked why he was so sure that the ruling party in the State (PDP) will win, the former lawmaker insisted that out of eight Local Government Areas, APC has taken 3 LGs while PDP is holding on to 2 LGs and the remaining 3 will be divided equally.

He said, “Today, I can tell you that the candidate of APC, David Lyon, comes from Southern Ijaw LG. That is the Local government with the highest voting strength. Definitely, that Local government is for APC. I come from Nembe LG and by my joining APC, Nembe has fallen into the hands of APC.

“Brass is where Timipre Sylva comes from and Brass normally is for APC. And I also assisted APC in winning my own Senatorial district in the last election. I also assisted APC in winning House of Representatives seat during February election. So, those three LGs are gone and we can give Kolokuma/Opokuma, the smallest LG to PDP because their candidate is from there.

“Then, the Sagbama Local Government Area where the present governor comes from will be donated to the present governor because his running mate is from Sagbama LG.

“Where the governor comes from, is where he picks running mate to PDP candidate. The question is, what will other LGs do? We can still donate that to him, so, we are taking three, they are taking two. The remaining LGs is 50/50.”

While welcoming the defector, the acting National Secretary urged him to be focussed and join hands with the party to provide dividend of democracy to Bayelsa people.