26-year-old corps member, three others make Kwara cabinet
Tunde Oyekola

Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, on Tuesday, forwarded the names of four women to the state House of Assembly as commissioner-nominees, including a 26-year-old, Miss Joana Kolo, who is currently undergoing her one-year mandatory National Youth Service Corps in Jigawa State.

Kolo, the youngest commissioner-nominee in the state’s history, is a 2018 graduate of Library Science from the Kwara State University.

If confirmed, she would be Nigeria’s youngest commissioner, a record being held by Oyo State’s 27-year-old Oluwaseun Fakorede.

Kolo teaches at Model Boarding Junior Secondary School, Guri.

Her screening for the cabinet seat would hold after she completes her NYSC service in the next two weeks.

The list read by the Speaker of the Assembly, Yakubu Danladi, at the plenary of the Assembly also included Ms Arinola Lawal, daughter of late Admiral Mohammed Lawal, former governor of Kwara State between May 1999 and May 2003; Mrs Sa’adatu Modibbo-Kawu and Ms Aisha Ahman-Pategi.

Lawal was a member of the Kwara State Transition Committee in 2019.

Modibbo-Kawu is married to the Director-General of the National Broadcasting Commission, Ishaq Modibbo-Kawu.

READ ALSO: PDP to sack institute’s workers

Ahman-Pategi is a former Senior Special Assistant to the Speaker of the House of Representatives on Strategy and Communication.

Meanwhile, AbdulRazaq has also nominated a former Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the FBN Mortgages Limited, a subsidiary of the First Bank, Mrs. Folashade Omoniyi, as the new Chairperson of the Kwara State Internal Revenue Service.

The Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Rafiu Ajakaye, in a statement, said Omoniyi would succeed Prof. Murtala Awodun, whose tenure expires soon.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]