Abiodun invites Akinlade, Amosun’s loyalists to rejoin APC
Tunji Bosun,Abeokuta

The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, on Tuesday, urged the governorship candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement and others loyal to the immediate-past governor, Ibikunle Amosun, to come back to the All Progressives Congress so they could build the state together.

Abiodun said this at the Cultural Centre, Kuto, Abeokuta during the thanksgiving/praise and worship ceremony to mark his the victory at the governorship election petitions tribunal.

The governor said his desire was to see the people in the opposition camps join his party so as to help him in his agenda to build a better state.

He added that the judgment by the tribunal attested to the divine agenda of his administration.

He said, “There is definitely a divine agenda here, for all we have done and we thank God for what he did to us on Saturday.

“Other parties are joining us day by day; this is the first time in Ogun State that you will hear 1,000 members of the PDP declaring for the APC, among others.

“We want to do something right, so, we encourage everybody that can assist in building our future together to come and join us.”

On the crisis over the existence of Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Moshood Abiola University of Science and Technology and Ogun state Polyutechnic, Ipokia, Abiodun disclosed that he had studied the report on the institutions and described the recommendations as win-win.

He said the interests of both Ogun Central, which was clamouring for the MAUSTECH, and Ogun West, that was agitating for a university, had been taken care of.

READ ALSO: Osinbajo has always followed due process — VP’s office

Abiodun said the State Trust Fund established by his predecessor failed.

“We realised the fact that the previous security trust fund failed; it failed because of governance issues and we thought we needed to look at that.

“We have amended it through the state House of Assembly; we sent the law to them, they approved it; we reconstituted that trust fund to ensure it has the right combination of people.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]