We’re ready to receive 2020 budget, say Reps
Leke Baiyewu, Abuja

The House of Representatives resumed plenary on Tuesday after an annual recess that lasted almost two months, urging President Muhammadu Buhari to lay the 2020 Appropriation Bill before it.

The Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, in his opening address, said the House recently convened two national roundtable discussions on the reform of the budget process and on recovered assets.

Gbajabiamila noted that the roundtable sessions were intended to take a critical look at issues relating to the development, funding, implementation and evaluation of the national budget.

The Speaker further said, “It also allowed us to begin to prepare the ground for the 2020 Appropriations Bill, which we expect will shortly be presented to the National Assembly by His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR.

“We look forward to receiving the executive’s proposals and making sure they align with our national development objectives as well as the expectations of the Nigerian people.”

Gbajabiamila also stated that through the national roundtable on recovered assets, the lawmakers were working with the relevant executive agencies to develop a framework for a more effective account for the cash and non-cash assets recovered as part of the government’s fight against corruption in public office.

He said, “Government over the last five years has been successful in recovering many of these resources, and these funds have in recent time contributed significantly to funding for our national budget.

“We have a responsibility to ensure that the assets thus far recovered are diligently accounted for and properly deployed to meet our national development challenges.”

The Speaker declared that henceforth, members of the House would be reciting the national pledge at the opening of every plenary.

“Today, we recited the national pledge, now part of our recitals at the beginning of every sitting. This will help inculcate the spirit of nation-building even in our subconscious,” he said.

Gbajabiamila, who stated that “there is a lot of work to do,” recalled that before the recess, the lawmakers had already started a significant amount of work.

The Speaker further recalled that the House had begun legislative action through the consideration of 13 bills, including the Electric Power Sector Reform Act (Amendment) Bill 2019, Physically Challenged (Empowerment) Bill 2019 and Student Loan (Access to Higher Education) Bill 2019.

He stressed that the lawmakers had also received and debated 57 motions on a range of issues, including the non-remittance of contributions into the NSIFT by the federal, state and local governments as well as some public and private organisations.

Gbajabiamila said, “Work on those bills and those motions will continue, even as we continue to receive, debate and act on other new legislation. All ad hoc committees to wind up and handover to standing committees by September 30th. I fully expect that in this session, the House will consider important legislations such as the Petroleum Industry Bill.

“In addition to the PIB, we will see the reintroduction of the bill prohibiting estimated billing in the power industry, intended to put a permanent end to the wastefulness and unfairness created by an unreliable and arbitrary system that imposes unforeseen costs on individuals and businesses alike.

“The Education Bank Bill, designed to ensure that no child in this 21st century is unable to get quality tertiary education in Nigeria due to a lack of means. And the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Bill, which will serve to broaden the Local Content Act and ensure the original intent of the Act is made real in the lives of our people.”

Gbajabiamila also recalled that the House, before the recess, took action to prevent the National Association of Resident Doctors from embarking on a strike action “that would have had an extremely deleterious effect on the delivery of health care services across the country.”

He said the agreement reached with the doctors was still holding, while they work with the association and the executive to fashion out a permanent solution to the problems “that so often lead to such labour unrest and the threat or implementation of strike action.”

The Speaker also said as part of efforts by the House to gain first-hand knowledge of what was happening in parts of the country recording banditry, insurgency and communal clashes, he recently led delegations to Borno, Zamfara and Katsina states.

While noting that the standing and ad hoc committees of the House constituted before the recess had hit the ground running, Gbajabiamila said the ad hoc committee set up to investigate the underutilisation of the Eastern ports had held several events, including a well-attended public hearing.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]