Tribunal judgement: PDP govs back appeal at Supreme Court
Success Nwogu, Abuja

The Peoples Democratic Party Governors Forum has expressed support for the decision of the Peoples Democratic Party and its presidential candidate in the February 2019 election, Atiku Abubakar to appeal to the verdict of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal at the Supreme Court.

The tribunal had upheld the victory of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, President Muhammadu

Buhari.

The Chairman of the Forum, Mr. Seriake Dickson, on behalf of his colleague-members in a statement on Sunday also said the judgement stood justice on its head.

He added that if not challenged at the apex court, it may constitute a hog in the wheel of the nation’s developing democracy.

Dickson who is also the Governor of Bayelsa State said that it will also send wrong signals to the teeming youths and lay a faulty moral foundation for generations of Nigerians yet unborn.

READ ALSO: Unbudgetted spending: National Assembly warns minister, revenue-generating agencies

He said, “After painstakingly and prudently understudying line after line of the judgement, several holes were picked and

countless anomalies identified by us. We would be doing a greater disservice and moral injustice to our party, our democracy and

Nigerians in general if we turn blind eyes, swallow such bile and applaud that rape of justice.

“The judgement to say the least has further painted our judiciary with darker colours, only this time around with a never-before-seen

blemished coat of tar. However, we are hopeful that the Supreme Court will rewrite that history by ensuring that such stains and tar are removed from our judicial archives.”

He added, “The apex court should know that its integrity is at stake and in order to avoid it been shredded to particles, must employ all known technicalities to save our nation and the future of Nigerians yet unborn from a development that may further make us a perpetual laughing stock amongst the comity of nations. And Nigerians are very hopeful that these wrongs will be righted.

“Without any iota of trepidation, it is most paramount for us to once more restate and reconfirm our undiluted loyalty, deserving support and maximum commitment to our great party and the Atiku-Obi Presidential ticket. This is our stand, now and in the future. Posterity would judge us harshly if we did otherwise.”