I went through nine pre-election court cases – Abiodun
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, on Sunday, said he was made to go through eight or nine pre-election cases apart from tribunal cases, describing his experience as turbulent.

Abiodun said this while speaking with journalists shortly after he attended the opening ceremony of the second plenary session of the Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria held in Abeokuta.

The governor, while reacting to the judgment of the state election petitions tribunal, which affirmed his victory in the petition filed by the governorship candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement, Adekunle Akinlade, on Saturday, said the victory was an affirmation of God’s existence.

He stated that he went through some pre-election challenges and tribunal in the cause of protecting his mandate.

Abiodun said, “This is further an affirmation that, indeed, with God, nothing shall be impossible. This victory is for Ogun State people who have entrusted me with this mandate. It has been contested in so many courts.

“I have gone through probably one of the most turbulent periods any governor could have gone through. I went through several pre-election cases; about eight or nine and also this tribunal.

“God has continued to remain God; this mandate is a divine mandate and I believe that is obvious to all.”

According to the governor, the judgment ratified the decision of the people of Ogun State.

He said, “I am thankful to the judiciary, the Ogun people and my team of lawyers who are very learned and I am thankful to my party that has stood by me during this period.

READ ALSO: Akinlade’s ‘lazy’ petition shameful –APC

“They are disciplined, resilient and supportive, and I could not have opted to be in another party apart from the All Progressives Congress.”

Speaking on his candidacy, Abiodun said, “It is not because I am the best in the state or special; God has just given me the assignment to lead Ogun State at this point in time. I have pledged, I will do so with all that God has given me.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]