Akinlade’s ‘lazy’ petition shameful –APC
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

The All Progressives Congress in Ogun State has mocked the governorship candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement, Adekunle Akinlade, over his loss at the election petitions tribunal in the state.

The three-man state governorship election petitions tribunal, led by Yusuf Halilu, while dismissing the petition and upholding Abiodun’s election, described Akinlade’s petition, challenging Abiodun’s victory, as “destined to fail”.

The APC, in a statement in Abeokuta by the Publicity Secretary of the Caretaker Committee, Tunde Oladunjoye, said, “It is very shameful for a candidate and party that were touting to govern an educationally advanced state like Ogun”.

The party commended the decision of the tribunal for affirming the election of Abiodun as governor of the state.

READ ALSO: Xenophobia: FG to evacuate 319 from South Africa Tuesday

The statement read in part, “This has exposed the lack of depth, procedurally contaminated and virus-invested petition to the whole world. In fact, it is very shameful for a candidate and party that wanted to govern an educationally advanced state like Ogun.

“Our advice is for these people to desist from their distractions and join Prince Dapo Abiodun in building the future of Ogun State together. The governor has been running the promised all-inclusive government.”

Also, a former deputy governor of Ogun State, Senator Adegbenga Kaka, and a chieftain of the party, Lanre Banjo, advised Akinlade to accept the verdict of the tribunal.

Kaka, who accused Akinlade of holding the state down unnecessarily for about four months, urged him to put an end to what he called “unpatriotic pursuit” by heading to the Court of Appeal.

Kaka, in a statement on Sunday, urged Akinlade to accept the verdict in good faith, noting that the state could not afford to be held down by unnecessary litigations.

READ ALSO: I went through nine pre-election court cases – Abiodun

Banjo commended Akinlade for his resolve to seek legal redress, rather than violence, saying the action would enhance the electoral process.

“Now that it is settled in law that Governor Abiodun won convincingly, Akinlade should join forces with the governor to lift up the state and the country.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]