APC, PDP bicker World Bank rating of Osun as ‘Best performer’
Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo

All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party in Osun State on Monday, engaged in a war of words over the rating of Osun as the best performer in Rural and Access Mobility Project 2, an initiative sponsored by the World Bank.

APC in a statement signed by its spokesperson, Mr Kunle Oyatomi, obtained in Osogbo, had challenged the PDP to disprove assessment by the World Bank, saying if the opposition could not produce evidence to contradict the position of the global financial institution, then that party should hide in shame.

The APC also told PDP to apologise for allegedly misleading the public about what has been happening in the state.

The statement read, “Today, however, to the utter shame and disgrace of the PDP, the World Bank has declared Osun the best-performing state in Nigeria on Rural Access and Mobility Projects.

READ ALSO: Aisha, abducted daughter of PDP chieftain released

“Of special importance to any objective observer should be the World Bank’s statement that highlighted, ‘the high sense of diligence and commitment displayed by the state government that earned it the award.

“The question now is, who do we want to believe? The World Bank with credible data or the PDP who have a notoriety for lies and criminally misleading propaganda?

We dare the PDP and its Chairman to produce facts and figures to prove the World Bank wrong.”

In response, Osun PDP Chairman, Mr. Soji Adagunodo, urged Governor Gboyega Oyetola to visits markets across the state and sample peoples opinions to have an accurate rating of his administration.

Adagunodo accused APC and Governor Oyetola of engaging in propaganda in a bid to disabuse the minds against the treatment of people of the state under the current administration.

Adagunodo then advised Oyetola to face governance instead of engaging in propaganda that no longer works.

The PDP said, “If Oyetola wants to be genuinely rated, he should sample peoples opinions from various markets in the state.

These are the authentic people that can accurately rate your performance.

“Various abandoned projects littered the state.”

“We, therefore, advise governor Gboyega Oyetola to face real governance instead of the old style of using padded propaganda which has become obsolete and no longer reliable to deceive people.”