Unemployment, major cause of insecurity – Plateau gov, Lalong
Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, who is also the chairman of Northern Governors’ Forum, spoke with journalists after 100 days into his second term in office. JAMES ABRAHAM was there

After 100 days into your second term, why have you not constituted your cabinet?

Well, let me say that indeed it’s over a hundred days into our second tenure and we are almost concluding on the constitution of the cabinet. People say there is a lot of delays but to me, we had an arrangement where we had to properly prepare for the next four years. And in the preparation for the next four years, we had to come up with a development plan. Now when people ask why are you delaying? My response is that it’s not about rushing and putting in place a cabinet, it is about the focus of what we want to do in the next four years.

What are you doing to further increase the Internally Generated Revenue of the state?

First, I told you that we engaged the Boston Consulting Group to prepare a development plan which they have finished now. After the development plan, we are also planning an economic summit which I think is going to be the first of its kind in Plateau State. Secondly, in terms of revenue, I have also engaged a consultant, the woman who did the magic for Kaduna State, Mrs Ofueko Omoigui Okauru, who was one time a chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service. She is already in Plateau State to prepare and put in facilities for the improvement of our revenue and that will take another four years so we are not joking when we say look, we are determined to take away Plateau from being a civil service state and that is why we mention economic rebirth.

Plateau State has witnessed bloodbaths on many occasions . How do you intend to make the state peaceful for tourism and development to thrive?

Yes, we have done a lot in terms of and addressing the causes of the problem and sustaining the peace. Sustaining peace goes along with dealing with poverty-I have noticed that when there is abject poverty. You see, stomach insecurity leads to physical insecurity and we have a lot of youths out there who are not working. So we have a special package, you can see that I am the only governor that created the Peace Building Agency, the only state in the federation. So we are developing that to sustain the peace and enhance conflict management in the state. I have mentioned that you must always find ways of empowering the people. Now when you empower the people, you get them off the street, but the moment you leave them roaming about, they become very vulnerable. They can be used for a peanut every time. That is why you see youths engaging in several vices that are detrimental to the society. As part of the scheme, we are also talking about industrialisation. We must make Plateau to become an industrial state by creating the enabling environment and then people will come and invest in the state. I have always said that each time you sit down and you claim to be driving people away from your state, you lose. If Lagos was like that, Lagos will not be the way it is today.

You are also the chairman of Northern Governors’ Forum. How are you addressing insecurity in the region?

That is another big challenge. When I was elected as the chairman of the Northern Governors Forum, I said wow! I have a headache here in Plateau State and another headache added. However, I said by the grace of God, I would do my best by applying the wisdom that He gave us to deal with the challenge here in Plateau State to other parts of the North. And if you recall, from the very day I was appointed the chairman of Northern Governors Forum, I set up a committee on security chaired by the Governor of Katsina State, Aminu Bello Masari. Since then, he has also had to contend with insecurity in his state. However, that committee is working very well; I have also prepared that we will soon have a meeting of the Northern Governors Forum which will be my first formal meeting to receive the report of the committee and decide the way forward. Right now, we have the challenges of banditry, cattle rustling, and kidnapping which are very prevalent in the North. So we shall be receiving the report of the committee and also preparing for a Northern Security Summit. Aside from that, I have always been in touch with the Inspector General of Police. He is doing well and the police are implementing a part of the recommendations we have made so far. I attended the meeting of the North-West Security Council and it was very wonderful. In some cases, you need dialogue to succeed because you don’t have to respond with confrontation all the time. I will ensure that the success of such engagement is extended to the North-Central. The IGP has gone to the South-West where he did the same thing. We are preparing to have our own in the North-Central just like the North-East is already established even as it is being taken care of by the Federal Government. One of the areas too that we saw that is a problem and needs to be tackled is the Almajiri system. So we have set up a committee that will bring out how to address the Almajiri system because in a society where you leave a large population that is doing nothing but roaming the streets, that is another cause of insecurity not only in the North but in the nation at large.

How far have you gone to ensure that the state of emergency declared on the tourism sector transforms to generating greater revenue for the state?

Your know tourism thrives when there is a peaceful environment and we have all the potential. I think Plateau State is endowed with a lot of potential, the very beautiful weather, scenic beauty, rich culture and friendly people. All these things attract people to Plateau State but what was driving people away before was the insecurity. That is why we are emphasising and concentrating on creating an environment where there is peace. If there is peace, people will start coming without any prompting. That is why we have done so much to bring peace back. A policy document has been brought from the Ministry of Tourism and I accepted it. So, right now we are moving towards developing some of those facilities in order to realise the objectives of the declaration of the state of emergency on the tourism sector in Plateau State. You saw that I paid a visit to the Wild Life Park established by our former governor, the late J. D. Gomwalk, and because of the wild life in Jos, people were coming for holidays here.

The management of the Nigerian Army met me to say that the symbol of the Rukuba Barracks, the 3rd Armoured Division, is the rhino; and that all over Nigeria, there is no rhino. They said Mr Governor, if you could get us a rhino, it would be an honour for the 3rd Division and we would provide all the security to that place and salute it every day. I gave them money and said go and look for rhino anywhere in the world and bring it to the Jos Wild Life Park because Rukuba Barracks want a rhino, that is their symbol they said. I understand they have found one. You see how tourism is emerging, many people will be coming to see the rhino and other animals in Plateau State and so in our budget, we’ve provided for places like Wase Rock, Pandam Wild Life Park and so many of the side attractions that we have in the state.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]