Intrigues over South-East governors’ solution to insecurity
Stakeholders are of the opinion that political and legal considerations may hamper South-East governors’ latest moves to tackle worsening insecurity in the region, RAPHAEL EDE writes

On July 28, 2019, governors of the five South-Eastern states announced a ban on the movement of cattle through bush paths and from state to state. They went further to set up a security outfit called Forest Guards to tackle surging insecurity which has led to the loss of many lives in the region.

The measures, according to the governors, will curtail killings, rape, kidnappings and armed robbery being allegedly perpetrated by mostly armed Fulani herdsmen.

The moves have, however, been followed by worries and doubts by stakeholders who believe the embattled governors may not see the plans through looming legal and political hurdles.

The activities of Fulani herdsmen had been going unnoticed until April 2016 when some armed herders attacked and killed innocent residents of Ukpabi, Nimbo community in the Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area of Enugu State. The attack on Nimbo sparked outrage in the entire Igbo land.

Over time, it became apparent that asking herders with their cattle to leave any farm or community in the region could result in outright death or serious injury on any daring person.

From one community to another, armed herders have allegedly continued to kill innocent citizens with little or no resistance.

They were reported to have raped women in their farms, killed innocent people and engaged in robberies without being really stopped by security agencies.

Barely four months after the Nimbo attack, armed herdsmen on August 25, 2016, attacked Akagbeugwu community in the Nkanu West Local Government Area killing a pregnant woman and a Catholic seminarian.

These two incidents forced the Enugu State Government to re-organise and empower the Neighbourhood Watch Vigilante Group already existing in all the communities in the state to enhance security.

This decision led to relative peace in the state and Enugu was later adjudged as one of the most peaceful states in Nigeria.

Anambra State had already established a functional vigilante group that helped the police to stem kidnapping and other violent crimes.

States like Abia, Ebonyi, and Imo also established one form of local security or the other to confront the threats and attacks by suspected herdsmen.

The peace in the region was, however, short-lived as armed herders resumed their nefarious activities after the 2019 general elections.

A Catholic priest, Rev Fr. Clement Ugwu, was killed on March 19 at the Ezeaugu Local Government Area of the state. Shortly afterwards, a lecturer at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University in Awka, Dr Nnamdi Ogueche, was murdered.

Also, the recent killing of another Catholic priest, Rev Fr. Paul Offu, along the Ihe -Agbudu Road in the Awgu Local Government Area of Enugu State on August 2 sparked protests by Catholic reverend fathers who called for an end to the menace of armed herdsmen.

Again, there was the gruesome murder of one Mrs Regina Mba in her farm at Nchatancha, Nike, Enugu East Local Government Area on August 23. This murder came at a time indigenes had yet to recover from the dismemberment of Mba after the assailants raped her; her body was discovered floating in a river at Nkwubor in the Enugu East Local Government Area. Meanwhile, the various killings were occurring alongside kidnapping and armed robbery in the South-East region

Following political pressure occasioned by the killings and other insecurity challenges in the region, South-East governors were forced to take the bulls by the horns by taking far-reaching decision to arrest the ravaging security crisis

The governors in an expanded meeting with elders and leaders of thought as well as the leadership of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo resolved to set up a security outfit called Forest Guards.

Operatives of the outfit would watch the forests against criminals that usually retire to the forests after committing crimes like kidnapping, robbery and murder.

The governors also decided to clear the bushes along the expressways in the region up to 50 metres from the roads so that motorists could have a clear view of the road ahead.

The aim was to expose criminals hiding in the bushes along the road.

When these measures seemed not to be having the desired effect, the governors met again in Enugu on August 31 to take yet a far-reaching decision on how to tackle the herdsmen menace.

The Chairman of South-East Governors Forum and governor of Ebonyi State, Mr David Umahi, who spoke the mind of his colleagues, enumerated the new resolutions.

He said, “In our discussion today, we have agreed to have a joint air operation to flush out bandits from all forests in the South-East and this is going to be a continuous one. We also agreed that we have to put measures in place to restrain the movement of herdsmen and their cattle from one state to another, which is a source and point of conflict with the natives and farmers. We have also restrained the movement of cattle and herdsmen from coming to communities across farmland.

“One of the important decisions taken is to stop the herdsmen from being armed with guns and knives with which they have been maiming the people at the slightest quarrel or no provocation at all. However, this will become effective if the security agencies will aid the vigilante groups and the neighbourhood watch groups as well as the Forest Guards to enforce the ban on arms-carrying herdsmen.”

Although the position of the South-East governors appeared to have been welcomed, political pundits are of the opinion that legal factors and political considerations prevent the governors from achieving the desired end.

For example, analysts are sceptical about the operational modalities and legality of the establishment of Forest Guards in the region.

A legal practitioner, Mr Nnamdi Asomugha, said the South-East states would need Federal Government approval to give legal backing to the proposed Forest Guards, arguing that security matters fall under the Exclusive list in the present federal system of government.

Asomugha said, “Although we presently operate a federal system of government, the creation, ownership, and operation of any policing system, in whatever guise, has been the exclusive preserve of the Federal Government to the exclusion of other tiers of government.

“In the United States, whose constitutional philosophy guided the federal system of governments in Nigeria, all tiers of government have their police system that works in synergy with the central Police.

“But the fear of likely abuse of the police system in Nigeria has been the argument against the devolution of the police system in Nigeria where ethnicity, fierce political rivalry, and religious divides are alive and well-grounded. Even then, the Nigerian Police Force has often been used by those in power at the centre against political opponents and rivals.

“So, the abuse of police powers still goes on in Nigeria despite its centralised power structure. Past and current Presidents of the country are guilty of this manipulation of the police. So, there is an inherent fear of multiple state actors abusing police powers at the states and local governments.”

He further said, “Now it is against this background that the creation of the security outfit (Forest Guards) by the Enugu State Government has generated interest. Now, what are the implications of this new security agency in Enugu State?

“The Forest Guard has no known legal backing properly enacted under the law. Therefore its operations may be voidable but not void under the law.

“What this means is that the administrative act of setting up the Forest Guards without an enabling law may be subject to judicial review. This is a process under which executive or legislative actions are subject to review by the judiciary.

Asomugha added, “A court with inherent powers and authority may invalidate laws, acts and governmental actions that are incompatible with a higher authority, this time the Federal Government. An executive decision may be invalidated for being unlawful or a statute may be invalidated for violating the terms of a constitution.

“Judicial review is one of the checks and balances in the separation of powers: the power of the judiciary to supervise the legislative and executive branches when the latter exceed their authority. The doctrine may be used by interested parties to question the creation of the Forest guards. The Federal Government may also clamp down on the Forest Guards easily if there are no proper laws enacted by the Enugu State House of Assembly to back its operations.”

Similarly, the interim Chairman of Igbo Famers Progressive Union, Chief Maxi Okwu, said the enactment of Anti-Open Grazing Law in five states of the South-East would make it difficult for the South-East state government to give legal backing to the establishment of the Forest Guards.

Okwu, alongside the interim secretary of the union, Mr Uchenna Nnadi, therefore, said no matter how well the governors meant, the policies could fail if not backed by the law.

“We are, however, concerned that the communiqué issued by the governors after their meeting on insecurity seems to hinge on pious hope and not backed by legal deterrents. Where there is no positive action by way of legislation through our five states’ Houses of Assembly, all the measures would end up as another paper tiger,” the union leaders noted.

A community leader, Chief Michael Eze, expressed the view that the governors had taken proactive measures that could check the rate of insecurity in the South East.

“The governors acted judiciously. Before now, the Fulani herdsmen used to move about with their cattle and no one has molested them. We used to buy cattle products from their women. We never had problems with them. It is only now that they started carrying arms that we began to see what we are seeing now. I believe if those decisions are implemented, we would have peace in our land again,” he said.

The Convener, Voice from the East, Mr Kindness Jonah, applauded the decision of the governors to end the menace of the armed Fulani herdsmen but quickly noted that political considerations and lack of political will might make it difficult for them to implement the policies.

Jonah said, “The decisions are superb. If the decisions are implemented, we shall have peace in our land again. I fear that they may not have the political will to enforce the decisions they have taken. The South-East governors have been under pressure by their constituents to show evidence and political will to arrest the increasing security threats, especially from Fulani herdsmen. At the same time, many of the governors are scared of being perceived as confronting President Buhari.”

At the moment, all eyes are on the five South-East governors to match their words with action by ensuring that alleged criminal activities of the armed herdsmen in the region are curtailed and peace returned to avoid the tales of the Civil War.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]