APC chieftain petitions IG over alleged harassment
Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki

THE Financial Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Ebonyi State chapter, Okenwa Uka, has petitioned the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, over the alleged misconduct and harassment by Officer-in-Charge of the Anti-Cultsm Unit at the Enugu State Police Command, DSP Chidobe Ekeleme.

The APC chieftain alleged that Ekeleme illegally obstructed his group’s meeting in Enugu on Friday, September 6 and Sunday, September 8, 2019, for refusing to pay him N2m as bribe.

Uka, who is also the South-East Zonal Director of De Norsemen Kclub Inc, said the likes of Ekeleme had given a bad reputation to the Nigeria Police Force.

Uka, during a meeting with journalists, said, “We were never arrested nor paraded, but ill-treated, for failure to give Ekeleme the sum of N2m bribe.

“The overzealous police officer by name, DSP Chidobe Ekeleme, came to a venue, where we (De Norsemen Kclub Inc. members) were having our zonal convention. He told me that the Commissioner of Police in the state wanted to see me. I went with him, only for him to take me to his office. I thank God he did not kill me.

“De Norsemen Kclub is a registered organisation with the Nigeria’s Corporate Affairs Commission. We wrote to the Nigeria Police on the 9th day of August 2019, to notify them of this convention. We also wrote to the Department of States Services; we equally wrote to the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps.

“Then on Friday, September 6, 2019, at about 6.30am, this same Ekeleme came to the venue of the event. He told me I had refused to give him the money he asked for us to have the event and as a result, we would not host the programme. Some minutes later, about seven trucks filled with policemen arrived at the venue. This DSP is a bad image to the Nigeria police.”

The command’s spokesperson, DSP Ebere Amarizu, did not pick calls put across to him and had yet to reply text messages sent to his mobile phone.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]