Adoke haunted by evil he did to me — Ndume
Senator Ali Ndume, in this interview with OLALEKAN ADETAYO, responds to the allegation made against him by a former Attorney General of the Federation, Mohammed Adoke (SAN), in his book

Former AGF, Mohammed Adoke, has just written a book, “Burden of Service”, and your name was mentioned generously in the book. He alleged that you, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo and the acting EFCC chairman, Ibrahim Magu, are the ones behind his travails. What is the relationship between you and the former AGF, Adoke?

There was no personal relationship as such. Our paths crossed in 2011 when we talked about the case of the Peoples Democratic Party that was before a tribunal then. We also had a relationship after I was accused of sponsoring Boko Haram.

Let me say that Adoke is being hunted by the evil he did towards me. When they wanted to use me as a scapegoat, he was one of those in the front line. I will not talk about the details. He mentioned my name in his book but I want him to know that he is not being persecuted. He prosecuted me and I left it to God. I knew I was innocent but I did not run away.

The former minister wrote in that book that there was a time he wanted to take you to meet former President Goodluck Jonathan as part of government’s moves to find a solution to the Boko Haram menace but that you went behind him to meet the President while he was still waiting for you somewhere. How true is this?

That was not the case. When he was to take me to the President, it was a tripartite agreement that involved him, the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Pius Anyim, and myself. I don’t want to go into details because like I said, I have put that behind me. Anyim and others who worked in that cabinet like Stella are here, they did not run away. They prosecuted me and Adoke was the one that drafted the false charges against me. He himself knew that those charges were frivolous. Despite this, I stayed back and faced the charges for six years. What I did was to leave him to God. I have never discussed Adoke’s issue with Magu or any other person after my prosecution. He wanted to use me as a scapegoat and drafted the charges that I was sponsoring Boko Haram. I defended myself and I was vindicated.

In that book, the former minister also said some people were calling him on the telephone threatening that he would be dealt with if he did not help them to remove the then governor of Borno State, Kashim Shettima. He said when the case was investigated and a suspect arrested, the suspect confessed that you were the one who engaged him to be calling and even supplied his telephone number. Is this true?

Why didn’t he put that in his statement while I was being prosecuted? Why didn’t he come to the court to say that as a lawyer? Like I told you, the only thing I will tell Adoke is that I have left him to God, he should go and face his trial. I am not behind his travails. I also believe that Magu has nothing personal against him too. The same thing is applicable to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. As a pastor, he will not persecute Adoke, he can only pray for him. I can vouch for the Vice President that he will never take anything personal against anybody. My advice to him is that he should feel free to return home and clear his name. For me, I was detained for 30 days and I was in court for six years.

READ ALSO: Dammy Krane risks jail as police arraign him Monday

For somebody who was initially meant to take you to the President, at what point did you begin to have issues that he started prosecuting you as you said?

This thing started long ago when I was taking on the government on issues of security and others. I didn’t know that they were not happy and were planning to use me as a scapegoat. A lot of things happened during that period, it was only God that saved me.

He wrote in that book that after you met with the President behind him, the President later told him that security report about you was not a good one. How do you react to this?

Which security report? He was the one that said that. He was the one that prosecuted me. He was the one who lied against me, not the security. Mr President even later told me that he worked with what they gave him. My plan is not to take issues with him. I only want Adoke to know that I am not part of his problem. I have never and I will never take revenge, I always leave things to God. I have never spoken to anybody about his case. It is true that I am from the same state with Magu but I have never interfered in his job. For him to mention my name and those of the Vice President and Magu as those behind his problem, there is no truth in it. I know that the Vice President and Magu will not react, it is me that is a politician that can talk about it. Osinbajo, being a pastor, is praying for Adoke. Magu, being a policeman, will protect him. But me, as a politician, will react.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]