I joined politics to help youths — Nasiru Magarya, Speaker, Zamfara State House of Assembly
The Speaker, Zamfara State House of Assembly, Hon. Nasiru Magarya, 30, is one of the youngest to ever occupy that position. He speaks with MAIHARAJI ALTINE on his political career and other issues

What legacy do you want to leave behind as the Speaker of the Zamfara State House of Assembly?

I really want to maintain a transparent and honest leadership style as the youngest speaker of the Sixth Assembly in Zamfara State. I want the world to know that we, the youth, are not too young to rule as many think. I want to set a good record worthy of emulation by the youth in the country in particular, and the world in general.

How did you feel when you were announced as the Speaker?

I must confess, I felt very delighted and also praised Allah, the most high, for lifting my status to this level.

What are some of the personal qualities that helped you get to this point?

As a Muslim, I believe it is the will of Allah who gives power to who He wishes. I am quite sure that this is how God wants it to be. I am sure you are aware of how we came into power, which was as a result of a Supreme Court ruling. Above all, I remain grateful to Allah.

What role will your age play in the discharge of your duties?

I am determined to lead by example, considering the fact that I am one of the youngest legislators in the country.

What are some of the challenges you face in the course of doing your job?

I really don’t have challenges as far as the leadership of the House is concerned. This is because we all belong to the People’s Democratic Party, and we are all willing to succeed. We want to leave a good legacy for our people, so we are working in unison.

What would you say are the secrets of your success?

Believing in the will of Allah and always being determined to succeed.

What stirred your interest in politics?

I joined politics in order to assist my fellow youths, particularly those who are unemployed and out of school. I understand that more than 60 per cent of our youths is redundant, and that is very disheartening. With my current position, I think I can do something to help the teeming unemployed youths in my state. Another reason is to contribute my quota towards the political development of my state, and nation in general.

Would you say that it’s easy for a young person to succeed in politics without a godfather (s)?

Yes, of course– it is very easy. As far as I’m concerned, ‘godfatherism’ is retarding development in Nigeria. In my own case, I did not succeed through anyone’s efforts, talk more of a godfather. I strongly believe that even without a godfather, one can get to any level of development with the help of God.

Some state Houses of Assembly have been accused of frustrating the executive arm of government. How is Zamfara State different in this regard?

Zamfara State is completely different from other states, simply because we have no opposition (party) among us. Another reason is that we all have a common goal. We met our state in a complete mess and things were not going in order. Now, we want to change that negative trend. We are different from other states where you find members of the House of Assembly belonging to different political parties.

Zamfara State is regarded as one of the poorest in the country. In what ways would the House of Assembly change that reality?

I am happy to tell you that we have already started on a sound footing. We are lucky to have a governor in the person of Dr Bello Matawalle, who is determined to change the status quo. As lawmakers, we will do as much as we can to ensure the quick passage of bills that are geared towards the development of our dear state.

What were the highlights of your career before you emerged as the Speaker of the House of Assembly?

I had wanted to further my education in environmental science, but as God had designed for me, I am now a lawmaker. I will, however, not relent in that direction.

What’s the toughest decision you’ve ever had to make in the course of your career?

The toughest decision I made was leaving my business and my education to contest under an opposition party when the state was 100 per cent controlled by the All Progressives Congress. But as God ordained it, I emerged victoriously.

What words of advice do you have for young politicians and other professionals out there?

The advice I have for the youth generally is that the younger generation should remain focused and determined to achieve their goals. They should always have a goal and work towards achieving that goal. They should constantly remember that they are the future leaders of this nation. They should strive hard to make sure they succeed in whatever profession they find themselves.

Did your parents support your decision to go into politics?

My parents have always supported me in whatever way they can. They threw their full weight behind me during my struggle to become a member of the state house of assembly. Undoubtedly, their support and prayers got me where I am today.

Are you satisfied with the current level of youth involvement in politics?

I can say so far, so good, considering the number of youths that emerged winners in the last elections, as well as those appointed at both the states and Federal Government levels. We now have four Speakers who are below 40 years old–Plateau, Oyo, Kwara and myself here in Zamfara. Our deputy governor is also below 40.

How has the experience been relating with other members of the House, especially those older than you?

It has been very easy. I have no problem whatsoever with my honourable members.

Who are your role models/mentors?

My role model was the late Sardauna of Sokoto, Sir Ahmadu Bello, who sacrificed his life for the people of his region. Sardauna brought a number of developmental projects in the northern region where he was elected and where he represented. I want to copy his good record.

How do you manage your busy schedule and family life so that none suffers?

It has not been easy, but I am trying my best to make sure that I give desired attention to both.

Do you do domestic chores?

Yes! I am a farmer and I still visit my farms whenever I am less busy.

Did your wife support your political career from the outset?

Yes, my wife has been in support of my political career from day one. I am indeed proud of the unflinching support she has been giving me. I can proudly say that her assistance and support have contributed immensely to my success.

What can you recall of your childhood?

I can vividly recall the first day I was taken to elementary school. It was a day I will forever remember. I saw myself in the midst of other children I didn’t know before. As a matter of fact, I was completely disorganised on that day, but I thank God that after a few weeks, I became familiar with the environment and started relating with other children.

What were your childhood ambitions?

As a child, my ambition was and still is to get myself into a position where I can help my people in whatever way possible. That is why I chose the medical line and attended the School of Health Technology, Tsafe, Zamfara State. Now that I am a politician and the Speaker of my state’s house of assembly, I think I am now in a better position to fulfil my dream.

What schools did you attend from elementary to tertiary level?

I attended elementary school in my village, Magarya. I later proceeded to Government Science Secondary School, Kaura-Namoda, for my secondary education. I then went to the College of Health Technology, Tsafe, where I studied Environmental Health Science. All the schools are in Zamfara State.

How do you relax?

I relax for brief periods but I dedicate most of my time to my work which I consider to be paramount.

How do you like to dress?

I always want to be identified as truly Nigerian with my dressing. More importantly, I make sure I appear decently in a way that conforms to my office.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]