Bayelsa/Kogi polls: INEC to disqualify some candidates over age limit
…To publish names of candidates on Friday

Friday Olokor, Abuja

The Independent National Electoral Commission would disqualify some of the governorship and deputy governorship candidates in the November 16 elections in Bayelsa and Kogi States.

Consequently, the commission has promised that it would soon notify the concerned parties and subsequently consider further action.

INEC National Commissioner and Chairman of its Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, gave the hints in a statement issued in Abuja on Thursday.

According to him, the commission had observed from its preliminary review of the list and personal particulars submitted by political parties that some of the governorship and deputy governorship candidates fell below the minimum age prescribed by the constitution for the positions.

READ ALSO: Apologise to Nigerians, FG tells Atiku, PDP

He also said that the personal particulars of candidates nominated by political parties for the elections would be published on Friday, September 12.

The publication, according to INEC, was in accordance with the Electoral Act and in line with the timetable and schedule of activities for the governorship exercise.

Okoye said 64 political parties conducted primaries in Bayelsa State while the figure stood at 59 in Kogi State.

He said, “The personal particulars of the nominees will be published on the notice boards of our offices in Yenagoa and Lokoja. As required by law, the commission monitored the primaries of the political parties and the list of aspirants who emerged has since been published on our website and other platforms.

“From our records, 64 political parties conducted primaries in Bayelsa State as against 59 in Kogi State. Out of these, 52 political parties for Bayelsa State and 49 for Kogi State respectively submitted the list of candidates and their personal particulars at the close of nomination at 6:00 p.m. on Monday September, 9 2019.

“While some of the political parties that conducted primaries did not submit any list and personal particulars of candidates, a few failed to submit within the time limit prescribed by the commission.

“Out of the 101 nominees for the two States, 91 are male, representing 90 per cent while 10 are female, representing 10 per cent of all the nominees. Of the 52 nominees for Bayelsa State, six are female, while 46 are male. The corresponding figures for Kogi State are 4 female and 45 male nominees.

“The publication of the personal particulars of nominees is for members of the public to make any claims and objections regarding these candidates, as required by law. Similarly, the commission has observed from a preliminary review of the list and personal particulars submitted by the political parties that some of the governorship and deputy governorship candidates are below the minimum age prescribed by the constitution for these positions.

“The commission will notify the concerned parties soon and subsequently consider further action. As we continue to prepare for the Bayelsa and Kogi governorship elections scheduled for Saturday, November 16 2019, the commission once more reminds the political parties of the timelines in the timetable and schedule of activities and requests strict compliance with them.

“We look forward to working with the parties and all stakeholders to make the forthcoming elections in the two States free, fair and credible.”