1,000 Kashamu’s loyalists defect to APC
Tunji Bosun , Abeokuta

Over 1,000 loyalists of the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party for the Ogun State governorship election, Buruji Kashamu, on Friday, dumped the PDP for the ruling All Progressives Congress in the state.

The defectors were received by the Senior Special Adviser on Political Matters to the Governor, Tunji Egbetokun.

A statement by Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Kunle Somorin, said the defection was “a show of solidarity with Governor Dapo Abiodun”.

The statement said Egbetokun received them on behalf of the governor, saying the defectors had made the right choice by joining the progressives.

Egbetokun assured them that the party would ensure fairness, equity and justice for all its members at all times, irrespective of when they joined the party.

He said, “Our party is open to all, even members of other parties. You have come at the right time. In our party, we do not discriminate as we give due recognition to all members irrespective of how long they have been members or their social standing.”

The state Secretary of the APC, Ayo Olubori, praised the defectors for joining the party.

The leader of the defectors, Otunba Kolawole Akinyemi, said they decided to join the APC following Abiodun’s achievements so far.

But Kashamu described the defectors as estranged members of the PDP.

Kashamu added, “I dissociate myself and my genuine followers from this group of desperados. Their movement to the APC in Ogun State does not have my blessing.”

Dino Melaye rejects campaign DG post

Meanwhile, Dino Melaye has rejected his appointment as Director-General of the Kogi State Peoples Democratic Party’s Governorship Campaign Council for the November election in the state.

READ ALSO: Nigerians not ready to fight for the change we seek –Yul Edochie

The representative of Kogi West in the Senate was defeated by Musa Wada in the PDP governorship primary election.

Melaye was then appointed by the leadership of the PDP to coordinate Wada’s campaign as DG.

But the lawmaker in his verified social media accounts on Friday rejected the offer.

He wrote, “Let me state categorically that I have turned down the position of Director-General of the PDP Kogi State Governorship Campaign Council.

“I wish the PDP all the best. When truth is a casualty there is chaos.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]