Zamfara lawmakers, councilors clash over chairman’s suspension
Maiharaji Altine, Gusau

The Zamfara State House of Assembly members are locked in a battle with Maradun Local Government Area councillors over the suspension of the council chairman, Alhaji Ahmed Maradun.

Maradun was suspended last month by the House of Assembly following a petition against him by some people in the LGA over his alleged nonchalant attitude to the security situation in the area. Unhappy with the suspension, the councillors on Friday demonstrated in Gusau, where they criticised the House of Assembly’s decision, demanding Maradun’s immediate return.

The councilors insisted the suspension of their chairman was politically motivated.

But the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Nasiru Magarya, said they followed due process before suspending the chairman.

He said, “The Zamfara State House of Assembly under the leadership of Nasiru Magarya (Tafidan Kanwa) never takes any decision that violates either the Constitution of the land let alone the standing rules of the House.”

The Speaker said on July 30, Bello Tsibiri, Aminu Kaya, Aliyu Gora, Bashiru Gidan and others from Maradun LGA petitioned the Assembly, accusing the council chairman of toying with security issues in the area.

Magarya added, “Considering the gravity and nature of the allegations levelled against the suspended council chairman, this House was left with no option but to invoke House Rule Order (8)Rule (3) Sub-section (3) paragraphs 1,2, and 3, which allow the House to deliberate on the petition and subsequently suspended the chairman pending the conclusion of investigation of the petition by the Committee on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs.

“To put the records straight the basis for the suspension is contained in the Zamfara State Standing Rules 2012 (as amended). The question is where did Zamfara State House of Assembly go wrong as being alleged by the so-called councillors?”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]