Reps Leadership: Wike threatens PDP over Elumelu’s emergence
Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt

The Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, has warned the Peoples Democratic Party not to toy with the state.

Wike, who said it would not be in the interest of the PDP to toy with the state, cautioned that Rivers State was capable of withstanding and fighting the party to a standstill.

The governor, who spoke in Port Harcourt on Wednesday, was reacting to the alleged illegal emergence of Ndudi Elemelu as the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives.

He specifically criticised the committee set up by the PDP to investigate the illegal emergence of Elumelu as the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives.

Wike also described the committee as the most tainted and corrupt in the history of the party.

He said, “We are warning the PDP to be careful not to toy with Rivers State. Rivers State has all it takes to withstand the PDP and fight the party to a standstill.

“The Rivers State Governor is not one of those governors that anyone can cajole. The Rivers State Governor is not one of those governors that will kowtow to their illicit activities.

“The committee set up by the PDP on the illegal emergence of Ndudi Elumelu is the most corrupt committee ever set up by the party.”

READ ALSO: We spend $1bn on Nigeria annually, says US

The governor thanked the former deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, Austin Opara, for withdrawing from the committee so as not to be entangled in the illegal outcome of the committee’s activities.

“We thank our worthy son, Austin Opara, for withdrawing from that committee, so that he is not entangled in the illegal activities of the tainted committee,” he added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]