Tribunal reserves judgment in suit challenging Ortom’s election
John Charles Makurdi

The Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Makurdi, the Benue State capital, on Wednesday, reserved judgment in the petition brought before it by the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, in the March 23, 2019 governship election, Emmanuel Jime.

Jime is challenging the election of Governor Samuel Ortom of the Peoples Democratic Party, who was declared winner by the Independent National Electoral Commission.

The APC candidate is praying the tribunal to nullify the reelection of Ortom, claiming that the election was marred by irregularities and other electoral frauds.

While the parties in the suit were adopting their written addresses on Wednesday, the counsel to Ortom, Sabtine Hon, urged the tribunal to dismiss the petition by Jime.

He argued that conflicting figures of the election results were provided in the petition, witness statements and written addresses.

Hon also told the tribunal, headed by Justice Henry Olusiyi that the counsel to the petitioners admitted during the proceedings that there were over 50 mistakes in the petition.

He maintained that all the mistakes could not be typographical errors.

He contended further that in Buruku, Guma and Logo local government areas, the figures of results for the election were all contradictory.

He said the figures provided in the petition were different from the ones in the written addresses.

The counsel to Ortom said considering the errors, no reasonable tribunal would give judgment in favour of the tribunal.

He, therefore, urged the tribunal to dismiss the petition and award cost to the respondent.

He further said that card readers which the petitioners were relying on, did not have any legal role to play in the election.

But the Counsel to the Petitioner, Yusuf Ali SAN, urged the tribunal to discountenance Hon’s argument because it was the conflicting figures that made the petitioners to approach the tribunal.

On the issue of card reader report, Ali said that there was provision for usage of card reader as contained in the electoral act, 2015 as amended.

Ali urged the tribunal to be the first court to apply the card reader provisions in the law even as the Supreme Court had yet to apply it.

After the adoption of written addresses by counsels to the parties, the Chairman of the tribunal, Justice Henry Olusiyi, reserved judgement.

He said that a date shall be communicated to both parties.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]