Chidoka loses House of Reps bid at tribunal
Tony Okafor, Awka

The House of Representatives candidate of the People Democratic Party for the Idemili North/South Federal Constituency in the last National Assembly election, Obinna Chidoka, on Wednesday lost his reelection bid at the Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Awka, the Anambra State capital.

The petitioner is the younger brother of former Minister of Aviation, Osita Chidioka.

He was the member representing the Idemili North/South Federal Constituency before the February 23 general elections.

The tribunal upheld the election of the candidate of the All Progressive Grand Alliance Ifeanyi Ibezi.

Chidoka had dragged Ibezi before the tribunal seeking the nullification of his victory as declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission.

He alleged that there was multiple voting as well as non-compliance with the Electoral Act.

He further contended that INEC ought not to have conducted the supplementary election that produced the APGA candidate after the first ballot that he allegedly won.

Delivering judgement, the tribunal, led by Justice A O Onovo, said the petitioner was unable to prove that the result he presented before the tribunal was generated during the election.

It stated that the petitioner could not identify the source of the result.

It also maintained that INEC had the powers under extant laws to conduct supplementary polls, where an election was inclusive.

The tribunal noted that since the petitioner could not establish where he got the result presented before it, it was not the duty of the tribunal to go into a voyage of discovery to find the sources of the result.

“Having failed woefully to establish your case beyond reasonable doubt for the tribunal to nullify the election, we hereby dismissed the petition and upheld the election as declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission”, the tribunal stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]