Tribunal dismisses Akume’s petition against Jev
John Charles, Makurdi

The National Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Makurdi, the Benue State capital, on Wednesday, dismissed the petition filed by the Senator, who represented Benue North-West in the 8th National Assembly, George Akume.

Akume, who is now the Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, had approached the tribunal to challenge the election of Senator Orker Jev of the Peoples Democratic Party.

The Minister, who contested the election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, was seeking the nullification of Jev’s election at the tribunal on the grounds that the election was marred with irregularities.

Delivering the judgement, the Chairman of the Tribunal, Justice R. O. Odugu, held that the petitioner failed to prove in his petition that the election was marred by corrupt practices and non-compliance with the Electoral Act 2010 as amended.

Justice Odugu said that the law was clear that where there were allegations against persons not joined, it would be a breach of their fundamental human rights.

He said that it was unnecessary to join such persons once a political party had already been joined.

Determining if Jev was duly elected by lawful votes cast during the election, the tribunal chairman accused Akume of failure to lead evidence, polling unit by polling unit and ward by ward, to show that non-compliance affected result of the election.

The tribunal also faulted the use of smart card reader, which according to him was not acceptable in law, positing that manual voter register would continue to play a vital role in determining election processes.

The tribunal added that, “ the Petitioners have a burden to prove non-compliance by tendering registers in proper forms, show figure of over-voting as well as showing that the alleged figure of over voting if removed would have favoured the petitioners.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]