Lawmaker faults ongoing probe of factional PDP caucus
Success Nwogu, Abuja

A member representing Obio/Akpor Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Mr Kingsley Chinda, on Thursday described the ongoing probe of some lawmakers over the Peoples Democratic Party caucus in the House as an attempt to muzzle opposition.

He said the PDP realised the need for a strong opposition voice in the House, hence asked him and his colleagues to set up a strong PDP voice.

Chinda spoke while featuring on a programme, Sunrise Daily, on Channels Television, which was monitored by our correspondent in Abuja.

The House of Representatives had commenced the investigation of Chinda, Toby Okechukwu, Umar Barde and Muraina Ajibola, for claiming to be leaders of the PDP caucus.

But Chinda said there was nothing wrong in them associating as members of the PDP caucus in the House, adding that it was not a new practice.

He said, “The PDP caucus does not in any way conflict with the minority caucus, neither does it conflict with the majority caucus. You have the All Progressive Grand Alliance and Accord Party in the minority. They also have their own caucuses. I do not see the conflict.

“Unfortunately, I think it is mischief that is being done there. I can tell you clearly that those persons who have been in the minority caucuses on the parliament (of the House of Representatives) appear not to be free whenever they see us.

“I think, the intention is to look for a way to suspend Chinda and a few others. This is the mischief that they are trying to play out. Minority leadership is made up of the PDP, APGA and other minority parties. That does not stop those parties from having their own caucuses in the House. It has been the method in the house.”

According to him, outside the minority caucus, there still exists the party caucuses and party leadership in the house.

The lawmaker also said the PDP had wasted time in resolving the crisis, following the emergence of member representing Aniocha/Oshimili Federal Constituency in the Federal House of Representatives, Mr Ndudi Elumelu, as the Minority Leader of the House.

He said, “I think that the PDP has wasted too much time to sort this issue of minority leadership and take a final position on it. I am prepared to abide by the decision of the PDP on this. That is why we have not taken any further step.

“I think the party is taking too much time. It is perhaps this will provoke a final decision on this issue so that we put it to rest and we can move on.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]