Rivers election: AAC opposes fresh panel
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja

The African Action Congress has opposed the request of its governorship candidate in Rivers State, Festus Awara, for the President of the Court of Appeal, Zainab Bulkachuwa, to constitute a fresh panel to hear his petition.

In the petition, Awara is challenging the declaration of Governor Nyesom Wike as the winner of the 2019 Governorship Election by the Independent National Electoral Commission.

The Court of Appeal sitting in Port-Harcourt had ordered that the petition be heard on its merit after the Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal had earlier struck it out.

Addressing journalists on Monday in Abuja, the National Chairman of AAC, Dr Leonard Nzenwa, distanced the party from the request for a fresh tribunal.

He accused Awara of bypassing the party in writing the letter.

Nzenwa said there was no need for a fresh tribunal to hear the petition with just 40 days left to its expiration.

He said, “We have at various fora complained about the hijack of the governorship ambition and race of Mr Awara.

“We do not have any worry anymore with what Awara does with his personal life. Our worry and challenge is the obnoxious plot by Awara and his paymasters. They have at every time dragged the good name of our great party into their evil plot.

“Our party did not go into the Rivers State governorship election with the intention to win as the prevailing circumstances then did not allow us to campaign.

“Our party’s candidate did not campaign and the party did not have agents in most of the polling units in the state.

“Our party is concerned about the hijack of our governorship candidate by forces willing and ready to compromise the entire judiciary and which are done with the full consent and connivance of our former National Chairman, Mr. Omoyele Sowore.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]