Oshiomhole laments Rivers APC rift
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja

The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, on Monday expressed regret over the party’s rift in Rivers State which led to the rejection of its candidates in the 2019 general elections.

The Supreme Court had upheld the Independent National Electoral Commission’s decision not to accept the list of candidates from APC saying the party did not conduct valid congresses.

Oshiomhole said the Supreme Court’s judgement left the party in Rivers State with no formal party structure.

He spoke at the inauguration of the APC caretaker committee for Rivers State.

The five-member panel is chaired by Isaac Ogbobula. Other members are Mr Friday Owhor, Mrs Beatrice Amobi, Prince Abolo Stephen and Mr Baridon Badom (secretary).

He said, “For almost over a year, the Supreme Court resolved the leadership of the APC and nullified all the ward congresses and local government congresses and the state congresses.

“This has left us with a complete void in Rivers State to the extent that we do not have formal party structures, even though we know how overwhelming the APC support base is in Rivers State. But that is not a substitute for formal structure.

“As a consequence of the Supreme Court ruling, the NWC has decided that it is time we started the process of rebuilding the party in Rivers State.

“We necessarily need a state-based organ to be able to assist those who will carry out the conduct of the ward, local government and the state congresses, which will last a period of about two weeks.”

Oshiomhole said the caretaker committee would be on ground to assist those coming to conduct the congresses in ensuring a hitch free exercise.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]