AA crisis worsens as 26 chairmen back Udeze
Success Nwogu, Abuja

Chairmen of the 26 state chapters of the Action Alliance on Saturday passed a vote of confidence on the National Chairman of the party, Mr Kenneth Udeze and the National Secretary, Mr Vernimbe James.

They also passed a vote of confidence on the National Convention, National Think Tank Committee and National Executive of the party led by Udeze.

The chairmen in their resolutions during the national convention of the party in Abuja also said Udeze, Vernimber and their team had worked hard to bring the party to the limelight by winning eight House of Assembly seats and two House of Representatives seat in Imo State since the inception of the party in August 2005.

They however regretted that some of the Imo State House of Assembly members had since defected to the Peoples Democratic Party.

The resolutions of the party were read by the Bayelsa State Chairman of the party, Mr Ebi Perotemi.

The Enugu State Chairman of the party, Mr Mike Onodu, moved for the adoption of the resolutions of the convention while the Kogi State chapter Chairman, Mr Onaji Sunday, seconded it.

The resolutions were approved in a voice vote by the chairmen present.

Perotemi said the convention also approved the withdrawal of the party’s name from the Imo State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal, in the overall interest of the party and Imo State.

He stated that the convention also approved the expenditures of the party as presented by the National Secretariat and adopted the recommendations of the report of the disciplinary committee set up by the National Think Tank Committee on June 21, 2019.

Perotemi said the convention approved the expulsion of some National Executive Committee members pursuant to Article 13 (ai) and Article 15 (5b) of the Action Alliance 2005 Constitution as amended.

He said, “The affected officials are the Deputy National Chairman, Alhaji Mohammed Abubakar; National Publicity Secretary, Charles Chukwuemeka; National Youth Leader, Micheal Madu; National Legal Adviser, Anaukyaa Peter; and the National Financial Secretary, Chief Eze Nwoke.

“Others are the National Vice Chairman, North-West, Alhaji Jibril Aminu; National Vice Chairman, North- Central, Eli Moses; National Vice Chairman, South-West, Joshua Adewole and National Auditor, Adebayo Lawal.”

He said the expelled officers were replaced with the Deputy National Chairman, Mohammed Bello; National Publicity Secretary, Ikenna Edozie; National Youth Leader, Bonauventure Akabuden; National Legal Adviser , Lawreta Azuaba; and National Financial Secretary, Ukwa Nwamake.

Others are National Vice Chairman (North-West), Abdullahi Adamu; National Vice Chairman, (North -Central), Onaji Sunday; National Vice Chairman, (South-West), Akintan Micheal and National Auditor, Tanko Suleiman.

He said, “The national convention approved the earlier dissolution of the party state executives in Osun, Lagos, Cross River, Kogi, Oyo, Zamfara and Imo states.

“It also approved the earlier appointment of caretaker committees in Osun, Lagos, Cross River, Kogi, Oyo, Zamfara, Adamawa and Imo states’ chapters.”

He urged the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmoud Yakubu, to caution his workers “ as our party is united and does not need INEC to create division in our party.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]