Opposition won’t win elections in Osun —Oyetola
Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo

Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Saturday said he was determined to replicate the legacy of continuity being experienced in Lagos, thereby making it difficult for opposition parties to contest future elections in the state.

The governor stated this at the reception organised for him and his immediate predecessor and Minister of Interior, Mr Rauf Aregbesola, held at the Government House, Osogbo.

Oyetola, at the reception attended by some leaders of All Progressives Congress and top government functionaries within and outside the state, said he would continue to focus on efforts that would make permanent people’s confidence in his administration.

He said doing so would help to retain the progressives in government in the state, stressing that making masses’ welfare top priority would earn his govermment people’s trust and support.

“I am elated to be honoured today alongside my predecessor who is now the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. This is another great thing in the history of our state.

“I am happy that I was part of the last administration and I am equally happy to have worked with my immediate predecessor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola who God used to create modern Osun.

“Our focus is to continue to do things that will make the confidence that our people have in us permanent and which will help to retain progressives in government because we believe strongly that one way to ensure the masses are on one’s side is to continue to prioritise their welfare.

READ ALSO: SUG president must be sanctioned –Lecturers

“This is what we have been doing since we came on board and we will remain focused and determined to replicate the legacy of continuity being experienced in Lagos, such that oppositions will find it difficult to contest future elections against us in Osun,” Oyetola said.

Speaking earlier, Aregbesola commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the courage in appointing him despite opposition to his candidature.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]