Prepare for congresses, Rivers APC tells members
Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt

The Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress has charged its members to put the past behind them and get ready for the coming congresses in the state.

The National Working Committee of the APC had on Friday appointed a five-member executive caretaker committee for the state chapter of the party led by Isaac Ogbobula.

Members of the state APC were enmeshed in legal battles over the leadership of the party ahead of the general elections in March 2019, which led to a judgment that they should not be part of the polls.

But speaking with our correspondent in a telephone interview on Saturday, the Publicity Secretary of the APC in the state, Mr Chris Finebone, urged any member of the party, who was not satisfied with the arrangements, to meet the caretaker committee for explanation .

Finebone said the APC in the state was ready for the ward, local government and state congresses, adding that the timeline for the exercise had been made public.

He said, “As law abiding members of the party, we are ready to participate in the congresses as planned by the National Working Committee

“There is no reason any member of the party should not be at home with the arrangements. But should anyone have contrary view, the person should approach the caretaker committee to allay their fears.

“Again, no one should have any reason not to be at home with the arrangements because the National Working Committee still has the power to appoint caretaker committee as in this case.”

The NWC of the APC had fixed the ward congresses for September 17 while appeals arising from the exercise would be addressed between September 18 and 20, 2019.

Recall that the NWC had fixed the local government congresses for September 21 while appeals would be heard between September 23 and September 25.

The state congress, according to the party at the national level, will hold on September 28 while appeals arising from the exercise will be heard between September 30 and October 2, 2019.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]