APC aspirant knocked for criticising Akeredolu
Peter Dada

The All Progressives Congress in the Ifedore Local Government Area of Ondo State has disowned a governorship aspirant of the party, Mr Banji Ayiloge, for allegedly telling lies while criticising the governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu.

Ayiloge, who is a former Commissioner for Information in the state, had declared to contest the governorship ticket of the APC against Akeredolu next year.

He was also said to have granted an interview in a national newspaper where he allegedly criticised Akeredolu’s government for performing woefully in the area of Internally Generated Revenue and infrastructural development.

The leaders of the party in the local government, while speaking with journalists in Akure, the state capital, said Ayiloge had no party membership card even though he claimed to be a member.

A party leader in the local government and the state Commissioner for Health, Dr Wahab Adegbenro, said it was wrong for Ayiloge to lie against the governor in the name of criticism.

He said, “Anybody is free to run for a political office but it is wrong to run other people down. He should be able to tell his people what he believes he can do better but not to be telling lies.”

Similarly, the Special Adviser to Governor Akeredolu on Transport, Mr Tobi Ogunleye, said the APC aspirant was not known to the people of the local government, stating that it was Ayiloge’s father that was a popular politician in the state. Ogunleye said many issues raised by Ayiloge in the interview about Akeredolu’s administration were lies.

READ ALSO: Reps propose president-elect’s resumption in Villa before inauguration

“He is free to contest any position but he should not drag Akeredolu’s name in the mud. He should not be telling lies to the people. This government is driving IGR in a manner that will bring succour to the people of the state.

“If he wants to contest on the platform of the APC, he should first come and register at our local government because we don’t know him.

He can also float his own political party to contest the election. “

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]