Tribunal sacks Delta senator, orders fresh election
Omo-Agege, Nwaoboshi’s victories affirmed

SUNDAY ABORISADE and MATTHEW OCHEI

The National Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Asaba, Delta State, has nullified the election of James Manager, lawmaker representing Delta South Senatorial District.

The tribunal presided over by Justice C.O. Onyeabo, gave the ruling on Saturday.

The Independent National Electoral Commission had declared Manager, who ran on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party winner of the election but former Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan – his All Progressives Congress rival, challenged his victory.

Counsel for Uduaghan, Thomson Okpoko, had told the tribunal that the February 23, 2019 election in the district was marred by massive rigging.

He had asked the panel to cancel the election and order a fresh election.

Onyeabo nullified the election and asked INEC to conduct a fresh one within three months (90 days).

He also ordered INEC to withdraw certificate of return issued to Manager, stressing that the defendants could not defend the case of over voting and irregularities preferred against them.

Speaking shortly after the judgment, counsel for Manager, Larry Selekeowei, SAN, said though they were not satisfied with the judgment, they would study and appeal it.

In a related development, the tribunal panel 1 presided over by Justice A.M. Abubakar in a four-hour judgment affirmed the victory of the Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege of the APC, representing Delta Central Senatorial District.

The tribunal declared that the petitions filed by the PDP and its candidate, Evelyn Oboro, for the senatorial election lacked merit and was subsequently dismissed.

Oboro’s prayer that the tribunal should declare her the winner of the election was struck out.

Reacting to the judgment affirming his victory, Omo-Agege commended the people of Delta Central and all Nigerians for their support while his tribunal case lasted.

The Senator in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Yomi Odunuga, expressed his resolve to diligently continue offering selfless service towards the betterment of his constituency and the nation as a whole.

He said many had emphatically maintained that the suit was unnecessary in view of the thousands of votes in his favour.

He appealed for continued unity of purpose towards ensuring positive impact on the lives of the people who voted for him to ensure qualitative representation at the Senate.

He said that the Saturday’s unanimous judgment by the tribunal sitting in Asaba was that the resounding electoral victory be upheld.

Also, the tribunal presided by Justice E.I Ngene dismissed the petition brought by APC candidate, Doris Uboh, against Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, saying the petition was dead on arrival

Uboh who contested against Nwaoboshi at the February 23 poll representing Delta North Senatorial District, had challenged Nwaoboshi’s victory for alleged irregularities.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]