Stop renewed killings in Plateau, senator tells STF
James Abraham, Jos

A member of the National Assembly, representing Plateau North Senatorial District, Istifanus Gyang, has called on the Nigeria Police Force and the Special Taskforce in charge of restoring peace in the state to checkmate the renewed violence in the North-Central state.

The senator made the call on Thursday in a statement, following reports of fresh killings in the Foron District of Barkin Ladi Local Government Area of the state.

Two natives, identified as Mr Musa Gwom and Mr John Bulus, were shot dead by gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen in the renewed hostility.

It was learnt that the gunmen who attacked the community around 3am on Tuesday, also rustled over 100 cows, owned by the natives while several others sustained injuries.

Gyang condemned the recurring killings in his constituency and recalled that not long ago, President Muhammadu Buhari gave an order to the military and the police to ensure that all blood- thirsty bandits across the nation must be wiped out.

He wondered why fresh killings and attacks were still occurring in the state.

The senator said, “The criminals and bandidts who trade in crime and bloodshed must face the wrath of the law so that the lives and property of law abiding citizens can be secured.”

He urged the STF and the Police to quickly enforce the Presidential order to arrest violent attacks on peace loving citizens and communities in Plateau North.

Gyang said he remained focused and committed to the mandate given to him to secure, reconcile and empower the people of Plateau North.

He urged the people to be vigilant against criminals and bandits whose actions constitute a threat to peace and peaceful coexistence.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]