I will celebrate achievements, not 100 days –Abiodun
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

The Governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun, on Wednesday, said he would not celebrate 100 days in office but would rather share his achievements with the people of the state on Friday.

Abiodun, who said he did not believe in celebration of the milestone, said the period would be used to share his performance within the first 100 days in office.

Speaking at the state’s free medical screening initiative held at Ilishan High School, in Ikenne, the governor said he had spent his first 100 days to lay a foundation for his vision, tagged, ‘Building our Future Together.”

Abiodun, who spoke with journalists at the venue of the event, said his administration had put together the foundation for the agenda within the first 100 days.

He said, “I don’t know whether our administration will be marking a milestone. I think what we believe is sharing with you what we have been able to achieve in 100 days and those things are the foundation of our vision.

“As we have shared with you during the campaign, we have laid the foundation of all those things. You have started seeing them, like the roads we are constructing, the ICT, the Tech-up and so on. They will be unveiled to you in the next few days.”

On the free medical exercise, the governor said his administration was committed to preventive medicine rather than its curative aspect.

Medical experts screened residents for high blood pressure; blood sugar level; random determined malaria among others, on the occasion.

READ ALSO: Don’t underrate Ruiz, fans warn Joshua

Abiodun said his administration had laid emphasis on preventive medicine because it was cheaper and also helps to detect and stop partial or permanent damage to health.

He said, “We cannot afford to allow ailments that are preventable to continue to make our people bed-ridden or take their lives.

“This is why we must continue to have health screenings and monitor the health status of our people.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]