Abdulrazaq says immigrants e-registration’ll boost security
Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin

The Governor of Kwara State, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, on Wednesday inaugurated the electronic registration of non-Nigerians residents in the state.

He described the exercise by the Nigeria Immigration Service as a key step to ensure national security and socio- economic development.

The programme, which has taken off in eight states, would see the NIS officials documenting all-Nigeriens living in the country as part of the larger efforts to keep accurate data and curb crimes in the age of transnational terrorism and other security threats.

AbdulRazaq, who said the initiative offered an opportunity for effective national security and socio-economic planning, congratulated the NIS for the foresight.

He said, “This is another milestone in our collective efforts to secure our country in this age of transnational terrorism and other crimes that threaten our national security.

“I also see it as an opportunity to properly document people who live within our borders for effective planning, development and mutually beneficial collaborations.

“The programme is to ensure proper registration of migrants in the country and targeted at generating a robust personal profile and electronic biometric database of all foreigners that intend to stay in Nigeria beyond the period of 90 days.

“I therefore call on all migrants in Kwara State to key into this programme by immediately submitting themselves at the Nigeria Immigration Service office in Ilorin, the state capital, and all designated centres for proper documentation and registration,” the governor said.

He pledged government’s support for the exercise and urged the officers doing the capturing to ensure that it was done professionally and in the overall interest of the country.

The Comptroller of the NIS in the state, Edith Onyemenam, said the registration was to capture every migrant above 18 years staying beyond 90 days in Nigeria.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]