Abdulrazaq floats N1bn loans for 1, 000 traders, artisans
Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin

At least, 1,000 traders and artisans will benefit from a N1bn soft loan, which will be given to them to run their businesses under the Kwara State Social Investment Programme being planned by the current administration in the state.

Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq disclosed this on Thursday at a maiden breakfast meeting with journalists, in Ilorin, the state capital.

He explained that the focus of his administration centred around human capital and infrastructural development, which would attract investments, combat poverty and take Kwara to the top of the table of revenue generation and competitiveness.

Modelled after the Federal Government’s Social Investment Programmes, the KWSSIP comprises Kwara State Conditional Cash Transfer to support those within the lowest poverty bracket by improving nutrition and increasing household consumption.

AbdulRazak said, “The Poverty Reduction Programme is to assist Kwarans to acquire and develop lifelong skills. The Kwara State Government Entrepreneur and Empowerment Programme shall lend money to petty traders, artisans, farmers, enterprising youths, men and women, while the home grown school feeding programme would improve nutrition.

“Under the Kwara State Social Investment Programme, for instance, we plan to spend N1bn to help traders and artisans with soft loans.

“We are looking at roughly 1000 beneficiaries of such soft loans. We cannot watch while our people are suffering. We have to do something in that regard.”

He added that the World Bank had indicated interest in the scheme, which is the first of such state-led initiatives modelled after the Federal Government Social Investment Programme.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]