Sanwo-Olu pledges improved security with 125 patrol vehicles
Samson Folarin

The Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has handed over 125 patrol vehicles and 35 motorcycles to security agencies in the state.

Sanwo-Olu said the vehicles and motorcycles showed his administration’s commitment to keeping Lagos crime-free.

He spoke on Thursday at the inauguration of the security items at the state secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja.

The governor noted that the creation of the Lagos State Security Trust Fund with the support of the Lagos State House of Assembly had paid off for the state.

“What we are doing today is a demonstration of our commitment to good governance by ensuring that the dividends of democracy are not just felt, but (they) are also things that people can feel, see and we can act on,” he added.

While reacting to recent attacks on South African businesses in Lagos as reprisals for xenophobic attacks on Nigerians, Sanwo-Olu warned residents to shun criminality and lawlessness.

The governor also inaugurated the Blue Box Initiative, described as a new culture of waste disposal and management in the state.

A statement said the initiative, inaugurated at Simpson Transfer Loading Station on the Lagos Island, was a component of the health and environmental regeneration agenda of the Sanwo-Olu administration.

He said his administration was determined to create wealth out of the 10,000 metric tons of waste daily generated in the state through recycling technique that would also create direct and indirect jobs in the value chains.

Sanwo-Olu said, “We cannot depend on old disposal method to manage the quantum of waste generated in Lagos. The experience of the past dictated the need to explore efficient techniques in line with our ‘Smart City’ aspiration. Rather than being a burden on us, we want to create wealth through the new techniques and generate jobs for our youths.”

The governor observed that the bulk of recyclable materials currently being harvested on dumpsites by scavengers could not pass quality test required for the recycling process due to high level of contamination.

The governor said the Blue Box programme would address the observed challenges, as well as create business opportunities for the youth.

The Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr Tunji Bello, said the initiative was the government’s strategy to redeem the aesthetics of the environment after a period of degeneration that preceded the current administration.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]