Tribunal dismisses Senator Ndoma-Egba’s petition
Ada Wodu, Calabar

The Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Calabar, the Cross River State capital, has dismissed the petition filed by Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba of the All Progressives Congress against Senator Sandy Onor of the Peoples Democratic Party and the Independent National Electoral Commission over the February 23, 2019 senatorial election in the Central Senatorial District of the state.

Dismissing the petition with number EPT/CAL/S/01/2019 on Wednesday, the Chairman of the three-man tribunal, Justice Vincent Agabata said “The issues brought before the tribunal were pre-election matters and as such the tribunal lacked the jurisdiction to entertain the matters.”

“The third respondent (Independent National Electoral Commission) acted in accordance with an order of the Appeal Court by removing the name of the first petitioner (Ndoma-Egba) from the ballot paper. The removal of the first petitioner’s name cannot be said to be unlawful.

READ ALSO: Xenophobia: African politicians responsible for youths’ miserable situation —Ezekwesili

“The petitioner lacks locus standi since he was not validly nominated as a candidate of the second petitioner. Votes won by the first petitioner were of no consequence. Even if he had scored the highest number of votes, he would not have been declared a winner because he did not participate in the election.”

Reacting, Senator Ndoma-Egba, who had sought the tribunal’s order declaring his exclusion from the election as unlawful and had asked that the election be nullified and a fresh election be conducted said, “I still have faith in the judiciary. The tribunal has given its judgement. Under the law, we still have an opportunity to test the judgement. I believe that for the sake of the profession and jurisprudence, this judgement should be tested in the next court. It will be appealed because it is in the interest of everybody, not just us who take part in elections but also for the legal profession that some of the issues raised by the tribunal be subjected to a higher opinion.”

His counsel, Efifia Ekong said “I will consult my client for further development.”

Counsel for Senator Sandy Onor, Patrick Akan said “The judgement has added value to jurisprudence procedure.”

Also reacting, the Director General of Sandy Onor Campaign Organisation, Joe Obi Bisong said, “This judgement is indeed a victory for democracy and the people of Central Cross River State. To our brothers, who lost at this tribunal, we urge you to take it in good faith. Nobody is greater than the wishes of the people of Central Cross River State.

“As democrats, we wish to extend our hand of comradeship to our brothers who contested elections under other party platforms and implore them to close ranks and work with Senator Sandy Onor for the good of all the people and to move Cross River Central to enviable heights,” he said.