Imo APC petitions Buhari over attacks on members
Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri

The Imo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress has petitioned President Muhammadu Buhari over the alleged clampdown on its members in the state.

A petition by its chairman, Daniel Nwafor, alleged that the Peoples Democratic Party-led state government had been harassing its members.

The Apc lamented that the intimidation by the ruling party in the state was unbecoming.

The petition read in part, “The All Progressives Congress, Imo State Chapter, wishes to petition your office to Intervene and save our party faithful and members in Imo Slate from harm, damages, threat, and consequences of violence.

“This is due to the incessant threats, intimidation and harassment of our members and leader, Distinguished Senator, Owelle Rochas Okorocha and his teaming supporters.

“Since May 29 when Governor Emeka Ihedioha took over the governance of the State, torture, intimidation, harassment, or unlawful seizure of persons and properties of the past Governor of Imo State. Owelle Rochas Okorocha, his immediate family and the All Progressives Congress members by the current government and its agents has been the order of the day.”

It added, “Sir the most worrisome, embarrassing and violence-prone, was a conspiracy-threat and ambush led by Mr Uche Onyeaeocha, the Secretary to the State Government, at the Imo International Cargo Airport on August 29 against Senator Rochas Okorocha and his supporters who they heard would have come into Imo State from Abuja on that faithful day.

“It is pertinent to inform you that Uche Onyegocha hired thugs from different parts of the Federation to attack Senator Rochas Okorocha if he had arrived Owerri. A video tape is attached to substantiate this claim.

“Furthermore, if probably the Senator’s brothers, immediate family members and the members of our Party had gone to receive him, the tendency that violence would erupt was very high.”

Against this background, the APC in Imo Slate, wishes to state categorically that when Okorocha was the governor, no one (including the then National House of Representatives member, the governor of Imo State now, Emeka Ihedioha, was ambushed or prevented from coming into Imo Stale.

“There was also no attack in any form or was anybody stopped from going about their lawful duties.

“Also, that the party and its members, being law abiding citizens of Nigeria, should not be expected to face this evil trend without resistance.

“If the law enforcement agencies in the country refused to take necessary actions, the people may resort to self-help and the consequences will not be palatable to anyone.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]