Osun: Tribunal nullifies PDP lawmakers’ election, orders rerun
Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo

Justice Eyo Ita-led Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Osogbo, on Monday nullified the election of a federal lawmaker and two House of Assembly legislators, who were elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party and ordered a fresh polls in the affected areas.

The panel, however, upheld the victory of Dr Mulikat Abiola, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress for Ifelodun State Constituency and dismissed the petition by the PDP candidate, Hazzim Abioye.

Reading the verdict of the panel, Justice Ita, in company with Justices Kadi Yakub and Ibrahim Mashi, said the APC candidate for Ede Federal Constituency, Mr Adejare Bello, who challenged the victory of Mr Bamidele Salam of the PDP, who was returned elected by INEC, proved allegations of over voting .

Justice Ita observed that the petitioner committed error in his petition by referring to an election held on March 23rd, instead of February 23.

He maintained that through agents, who were eyewitnesses, the petitioner established over voting in 12 units across the four local government areas in the federal constituency.

He subsequently cancelled 6, 229 votes in the 12 units and declared that a rerun election be held in the units, since the margin of victory between the winner, Salam of the PDP and the first runner-up, Bello of the APC was merely 1,710 after the cancelled votes had been deducted.

In another judgement, the panel declared the State Assembly Election for Obokun State Constituency inconclusive.

Olatunbosun Oyintiloye of the APC had challenged the victory of the PDP candidate, Adewumi Adeyemi, and the panel held that the petitioner established over voting in four units in Esa Oke and Ilashe towns, and cancelled elections in those units.

Ruling on the petition filed by the APC’s Daud Akinloye against the victory of Babajide Kofoworola of the PDP, who was declared winner of Ede North State Constituency, the panel said the petitioner proved that over voting was recorded in four units and subsequently cancelled elections in the units.

The panel said after deducting votes recorded for both parties in the poll, the difference between the winner and first runner-up was 163 votes, while votes in the units where polls were cancelled were 8,577.

It subsequently declared the results of the poll inconclusive and ordered rerun in the units.

The panel however upheld the election of Mulikat Abiola of APC, who was returned elected as the lawmaker representing Ifelodun State Constituency.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]