Ijaw group rejects NDDC board MD-nominee
Oladimeji Ramon

The Western Ijaw Consultative Assembly has rejected the nomination of Mr Bernard Okumagba as the Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission.

The group protested that it was the turn of the Ijaw to produce the NDDC MD but Okumagba is an Urhobo man.

WICA said this in a statement on Monday by its Chairman, Chief Ebipade Gbegha, and Secretary, Ogbein Zidideke.

It urged President Muhammadu Buhari to revisit the nomination.

It said, “The Ijaw in Delta State wish to notify President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Assembly that the nomination of Bernard Okumagba of the Urhobo extraction in Delta State as the Managing Director in the new Niger Delta Development Commission board instead of an Ijaw nominee from the state is totally unacceptable.

“This is because it is a clear case of oppression, injustice and alienation of Ijaw in Delta State by some selfish politicians acting like new pirates in power.

“We state without fear of equivocation that any executive position slot for Delta State should be given to the Ijaw as it is our turn in line with the rotational arrangement as prescribed by the NDDC Act of 2000.

“The emphasis on the rotation within member states with the highest production quantum of oil is to ensure equity, justice and fairness in states like Delta, where there are more than one ethnic group producing oil.

“The Ijaw riverside communities are the highest producers of oil and gas in the region, and by implication, the highest revenue generators in Nigeria. We also bear the brunt of the pollution, degradation and environmental impacts of oil and gas exploration, production and transportation.

“In spite of our enormous contributions and sacrifices, we are still the most underdeveloped part of Nigeria. The NDDC, which is a product of the Niger Delta struggle, was initiated as an interventionist agency to cater for the oil-bearing/impacted communities from age-long neglect. Though all members of the region contributed to the struggle, the Ijaw, no doubt, sacrificed and contributed the more in the struggle. Youths of Ijaw laid down their lives in agitating for the creation of the NDDC and were tagged all sorts of names in the process.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]