Tribunal: Close ranks, Ajimobi urges APC members
Former Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State has called on members of the All Progressives Congress to close ranks ahead of the tribunal’s judgments on both the governorship and senatorial elections.

Ajimobi, at the Oyo South Senatorial District meeting held in Ibadan on Friday, said it was imperative for members, particularly those from Ibadan and Ibarapa zones of the state, to unite.

The News Agency of Nigeria reports that both the former governor and the APC governorship candidate in the state, Bayo Adelabu, had approached the tribunals in the state.

NAN reports that Ajimobi is challenging his loss to Senator Kola Balogun of the Peoples Democratic Party in the Oyo South Senatorial election, while Adelabu is challenging Governor Seyi Makinde’s victory at the poll.

READ ALSO: How I escaped attacks in Ekiti — Fayose

Ajimobi, who defended the rationale behind some of his actions and policies which generated controversies, enjoined party faithful to approach future political challenges with a resolve to be selfless, forgiving and more committed to the party’s cause.

“We are expecting the courts to do justice to some of the cases emanating from the conduct of the last general elections in the state especially as it concerns the Oyo South Senatorial seat and the governorship.

“I admonish every member of our great party to eschew bitterness and preach genuine reconciliation.

“There are insinuations in some quarters about some of the policies and undertakings of our eight-year administration which some considered controversial.

“But in all honesty, I meant well for the state. All my actions were geared toward facilitating development for the whole state and thus make life more meaningful for the masses,” Ajimobi said

Chief Akin Oke, the State APC Chairman and Adefisoye Adekanye, Oyo South Senatorial Chairman, in their separate remarks, appealed to members to remain faithful and committed in view of the current challenges.

NAN reports that the meeting, which held at the party secretariat in Ibadan, had in attendance leaders and chieftains from the nine Local Government Areas of the district.

Among the dignitaries present were Adelabu, Alhaji Olalekan Alli, a former SSG, former legislators, chairmen of the LGAs and LCDAs, members of the State Working Committee of the party as well as leaders of the party across the senatorial district.

(NAN)