Probe attack on Fayose, Ekiti PDP tells Fayemi
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ekiti State, Chief Gboyega Oguntuwase, on Sunday called on Governor Kayode Fayemi to fish out the culprits in Friday’s alleged attack on former Governor Ayodele Fayose.

Oguntuwase also appealed to the police to exhibit professionalism in the handling of the attack on Fayose.

The PDP chairman, in a statement in Ado Ekiti, called on traditional rulers in the state to prevail on the All Progressives Congress not to introduce another era of violence into the state.

Fayose had on Friday alleged that he narrowly escaped being attacked by some men in a pickup van who trailed his vehicle after he left the state House of Assembly in Ado Ekiti where he said he had gone in response to the legislative body’s summons.

Oguntuwase said, “I personally protest the attack on Fayose. As the PDP leader in the state, I say we don’t deserve it because nobody harassed the opposition under our watch.

“A pollution of the river of peace in Ekiti will not be to anybody’s advantage. One monumental feature of the APC government is the intimidation and harassment of opposition .

It is an irony that leaders who in obedience to a summon by a legislative body can be ambushed shortly after the visit to be harrassed and threatened with weapons.

“This is not good for Ekiti or Nigeria.”

However, the Deputy Chairman of the APC in the state, Sola Elesin, dismissed the alleged attack on Fayose.

He said, “Nobody attacked Fayose. It was a blatant lie. He went on a surprise visit to the House of Assembly when he was not officially invited. The PDP is economical with the truth.”

READ ALSO: Buratai meets army chiefs over Taraba killings today

Elesin said the APC government in the state did not have history of harassing or intimidating political opponents.

He said, “If Fayose is saying he has been attacked, it will be tantamount to falsehood. Nobody attacked him and if anybody attacked him, he is on his own.

“Let him go to the House when he is invited to defend the allegations levied against him. As far as the APC is concerned, the allegation of attack is a surprise,” the APC chief said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]