I had no altercation with Dickson, says Alaibe
Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa

Frontline Peoples Democratic Party governorship aspirant and a former Presidential Adviser on Niger Delta Matters, Chief Timi Alaibe, has said there is no rift between him and the Bayelsa State Governor, Mr Seriake Dickson.

He stated this while fielding questions from newsmen in Yenagoa on Saturday.

Alaibe’s clarification came on the heels of reports that the governor was not comfortable with his governorship ambition and that he was using the Restoration Team of the PDP to mount opposition against Alaibe.

Dickson had vowed not to support any governorship aspirant outside his political camp and Alaibe was not a member of his Restoration Team.

Reports indicated that Alaibe was the only person among the 21 aspirants that petitioned the national secretariat of the PDP over the conduct of the ad hoc delegates’ election, which was swept by Dickson’s caucus.

The former managing director of the Niger Delta Development Commission described his relationship with the governor as cordial.

He explained that he and the Governor were not fighting over the political contest.

He said Dickson, as the governor of the state and a leader, deserved respect, and that he would continue to accord him the honour.

Alaibe said, “There’s nothing wrong with my relationship with Governor Seriake Dickson. We don’t have any fundamental issues. It’s a political time so people will be suspecting different things.

“He is the governor of our state and we give him that respect. He is also a leader that we all adore. So, we will continue to give him that respect. We do not have any altercations.”

He also said his vision for Bayelsa State would be anchored on the Blue Economy, a strategic policy with which he would transform the state.

Alaibe, while expressing confidence in winning the PDP primary on September 3, said he was coming into the governorship race with private-sector experience to render quality leadership and service to the people.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]