Why Bayelsa APC should hold indirect primary —Elders Forum
Friday Olokor, Abuja

Elders of All Progressives Congress in Bayelsa State have raised the alarm that the party might lose the governorship election scheduled for November 16 if corrective measures are not taken to conduct indirect primaries.

They, therefore, demanded that the national leadership of APC should conduct indirect primaries as was done in Kogi State.

The spokesperson of Bayelsa APC Elders, Bode Arerebo, told journalists in Abuja on Saturday that the group of persons advocating direct primaries do so for their selfish interests.

Arerebo urged President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, to intervene and prevent Bayelsa APC from plunging into imminent crisis.

He said, “The truth is that the party is having some misunderstanding. If urgent steps are not taken to correct this anomaly, there may be crisis. In fact, APC will lose Bayelsa State.”

Continuing, he said, “The leadership of APC has not been fair because there has been a lot of injustice being done.

“Kogi State APC was supposed to have primaries alongside with Bayelsa chapter. But Kogi had their indirect primaries on Thursday and they now have a sitting governor as the flag bearer.

“By right, a direct primary can be for a state like Kogi having a sitting governor.

“The party leadership started shifting the [Bayelsa] dates to manoeuvre things.

“This is very wrong in a country like Nigeria which is supposed to leave an exemplary political and democratic dispensation to other African countries.

“Bayelsa is a state which doesn’t have APC governor; we are supposed to have indirect primaries.

“They shifted the date from Thursday to Saturday and from Saturday, they shifted it to Tuesday.

“It is wrong, let the party come down and let us see how we can work out things for the APC to win this election.

“We want a credible primary that will bring glory to the APC family.

“The Bayelsa APC Elders Forum wants indirect primaries; the same type of primaries that took place in Kogi State should be repeated in Bayelsa State. The delegates should come down and cast their votes.

“President Muhammadu Buhari and Timipre Sylva should intervene because Bayelsa is the heart of the Niger Delta. Sylva should use his position as Minister to light the party in Bayelsa State.

“For the election of Bayelsa to be connected to the national grid, the President needs to be involved.

“The interest of the President and the APC needs to be in Bayelsa State.

“But this thing is not going the way we want.”