Criticisms put Oyo 27-year-old commissioner under pressure to deliver
In this piece, ADEMOLA BABALOLA examines the opposition to the nomination of 27-year-old Civil Engineering graduate of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife and the effect his appointment would have on youth inclusion in governance if he succeeds in office

The announcement of 27-year-old Seun Fakorede as a commissioner nominee by Governor Seyi Makinde was greeted with criticisms from many, who felt that his nomination would disrupt the zoning arrangements in existence in the Oyo South Senatorial District.

Prior to Makinde’s emergence, there was a written document on how the participating political parties: the then arrow head of the opposition parties, the Peoples Democratic Party; the African Democratic Congress; Zenith Labour Party; Alliance for Democracy and others parties would share appointments if they emerged victorious against Senator Abiola Ajimobi, who enjoyed to state and the Federal Government supports.

While the governor was said to have been interested in fulfilling the agreement reached with the parties concerned, not a few within the PDP which is now the ruling party in the state, are grossly disenchanted with the way appointments have so far been shared.

Some politicians complain that technocrats have secured better patronage by the governor compared to them despite their efforts to wrest power from the grip of the All Progressives Congress which ruled the state for eight unbroken years.

One of the chieftains of the coalition who was governorship candidate of the ADC, Senator Femi Lanlehin, recently backed out of the coalition. Some analysts claim that the ZLP led by former Governor Rashidi Ladoja with the party’s candidate, Chief Sharafadeen Alli, have not been fairly treated so far.

An analyst, Victor Adebimpe, said, “While the ADC succeeded in nominating three of the current 17 commissioners, the ZLP has none. Ladoja, the leader of the coalition, was pacified with the nomination of one of his lawyers, Abduraheem Abiodun, as the commissioner for lands.”

The Oyo South Senatorial district which felt things were not going as envisaged, publicly rejected Fakorede’s nomination on the day the state House of Assembly wanted to screen the 27 years graduate of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife.

Some PDP leaders in Ibarapa North Local Government led by the Senatorial Chairman of Oyo South, Mr Samuel Olawuwo, claimed that both Fakorede and his father, Shola Fakorede, had long left the party, adding that the duo worked against Makinde during the governorship poll.

Olawuwo said, “We thank God that our party won at the state level. We also won at the senatorial level. When we were campaigning, the governor promised us that anytime he wanted to pick the commissioners or other office holders, he would consult us. But he didn’t do that when he wanted to pick Seun Fakorede.

“Our people in that area have plans for whatever we do. We slated the commissionership slot for Tapa and that has been done. The Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Mrs Olufunmilayo Orisadeyi, is from Tapa.

“We slated House of Assembly for Igangan and that has been done. For Idere, we slated caretaker chairman. Then, we slated the slot for House of Representatives to Igboora. If there is another chance, Igboora is going to be the next place to be considered for commissioner. But that was not done.

“We are not here quarrelling with the governor at all. We are not quarrelling with the Speaker. But we only want to express our concern about the man appointed. It is shocking that a man, whose son is now picked, is a staunch member of the APC.

“We totally reject the nomination of his son.”

But in a counter protest, chairman, Oyo State chapter, National Association of Nigerian Students, identified as Omosile, led other students to declare support for the nomination and confirmation of Fakorede.

He said, “We are here today to support our brother, Seun Fakorede, on his nomination as a commissioner. His nomination by the governor is a laudable one. This is so because for years, youths had been on the frontline of advocating that the youth should be represented by youth. In fact, younger people should take over the leadership of this country.

“It is joyous and impressive that Governor Seyi Makinde has deemed it fit to nominate, not just someone who falls slightly into the bracket as a youth, but a real youth. He is 27 years old. We are happy about the nomination and we are confident that he will be screened and he will perform beyond expectations because he is full of good ideas.

“I don’t know their party affiliations, but NANS, as a student body, doesn’t care about party affiliations. What we care about is development. What we care about is competence. From the look of things and our background checks and intelligence reports, Fakorede is fit to lead the Ministry of Youth and Sports,” he countered.

The father of the commissioner, Shola who was alleged to have left the PDP and worked against Makinde at the poll, told Saturday PUNCH that the allegation against him was not true.

Senior Fakorede said, “My son’s appointment is God’s wish. I don’t have a hand in it and no member of our family has a hand in it.

“Seun is so industrious, well cultured, God-fearing and had sowed a seed way back in his university days, including giving up his only cell phone I bought for him as a sacrifice to the church, which I believe must have accounted for what is playing out today in his life.

“He studied Civil Engineering and we told him he should work but he said he preferred to run his NGO, a humanitarian service, to better the lives of the younger ones by training them to believe in themselves and their communities.”

He denied the claims that he had dumped the PDP for the APC, saying those who were not happy with the nomination of his son concocted so many lies to make sure that he was dropped by the governor.

“I have my contributions to the party. I am a founding member of the PDP since 1998. I contested and won election as vice chairman in my local government in 1999. I was the party chairman for eight years and I have contributed in no small way to its growth even when we were in control of just nine local governments in the state, I didn’t defect.

“I used my structures to win election for some people and it’s not deniable. What really happened was that during the last congress, some elders in the party tried to hijack the party and some of us said we were stepping aside but I didn’t join any other party.

“A friend of mine wanted to contest an election in the APC and I gave him my backing though it was short-lived. At a time, we formed a group, ‘Aseyori Seyi Makinde’ and I was the coordinator in my local government.

“So, I believed and still believe so much in the governor. I am a registered member of the PDP; people can testify and people could verify. I don’t have APC card. I did not work against Makinde as they claim.

“I did my best for the governor and also know that Seun will excel in the ministry; because he is a sports-loving boy who had won two laurels in the past,” Fakorede said.

The APC Publicity Secretary in the state, Dr Abdulazeez Olatunde, said there was no big deal in Seun’s appointment, saying, “how old was Dr Victor Olunloyo when he became commissioner in this state? He was in his 20s. Dapo Lam-Adesina, how old was he when former Governor Abiola Ajimobi made him commissioner in this state?”

Olatunde continued, “The protest was part of politics. Senator Robert Koleoso, a PDP member, became senator after he had enjoyed patronages of the AD government under Alhaji Lam Adesina, courtesy of the then Secretary to the State Government.

“People need to be educated. It doesn’t matter where he comes from. Makinde is only following in the footsteps of the former leaders to groom the youth. He has not done anything strange.”

A sociologist, Dr Tade Oludayo, said, “Peaceful demonstration is a democratic right and it is guaranteed by the constitution. It is a strategy to show that people want to direct the attention of government to a certain issue.

“So, if some people demonstrated against a person, they may also be trying to push an agenda for their representation. But in the instant case, there was counter demonstration which showed persons pursuing an agenda. He has been sworn in as commissioner. That is democracy. Majority will rule but minority (in this case those protesting against his nomination) had their say.

“There are old faces in the cabinet with new injections. But the quality of a cabinet is the manifested quality of development they eventually bring to the people of the state. There is nothing special in appointing young people if they will not do anything different from what the older ones did. Let those elected perform and we can talk of having a productive cabinet that brought greatest happiness to the highest number of people.”

The governor appears unperturbed as he said at the swearing-in of Fakorede and two others on Monday that they were chosen for the overall development of the state rather than political considerations alone.

He urged politicians to shun destructive politics with a view to moving the state forward.

Analysts are of the opinion that the commissioner should see the criticisms to his nomination as a challenge, stressing that he needs to work extra hard to prove his critics wrong and to open the door for the nomination of more young people into positions of leadership.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]