Kidnappers migrated to South-West for easy ransom –Prof Akanji, Director, IPSS, UI
The Director, Institute for Peace and Strategic Studies, University of Ibadan, Prof Tajudeen Akanji, is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Mediators and Conciliators, and a fellow of the Society for Peace Studies and Practice. Akanji, who was a member of the Presidential Committee on the Disposal of Special Detainees Linked with the Boko Haram Insurgency also served as a member of the Transition Committee set up by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015 to produce the blueprint for security and anti-corruption. In this interview with ADEMOLA BABALOLA, he speaks on how Nigeria’s porous borders have worsened insecurity in the country, among other issues.

D

espite the efforts of your institute and others, insecurity is still growing in the country. Why is this so?

Well, you know addressing the insecurity issue is not a mono-sectoral affair, it is an affair that concerns everybody. Particularly, what we know is that training institutions have to give intellectual support to the fight against insecurity, which is what we are doing in our own capacity. For us to be able to do more, government officials must realise the importance of institutions like ours and make themselves available to such services. But in so many situations, those in government prefer to invite people from abroad to come and assist them. Even the most advanced security services around the world are undergoing reforms because the nature of conflicts is changing. The conflicts actors continue to increase. We have some data/ information about everything across the world. Everybody is having information and unfortunately, if you look at the World Terrorism Index 2018 edition, it puts Nigeria in number three in the whole world which was not like that before. Even when the issue of Boko Haram was very serious, we were not so placed. Even in that report, they agreed that Nigeria had done a lot in fighting Boko Haram, but there are emerging crises that are springing up; some of them are: herdsmen/farmers conflict, banditry, kidnapping which have assumed different dimension and I am sure by the time 2019 GTI is released, we are going to see a new classification to know the rate at which terrorism is going in Nigeria.

How does the rising insecurity affect Direct Foreign Investment?

It is also affecting our Direct Foreign Investment drive. There is no investor, who will want to come and invest in Nigeria because of the insecurity in the land. Great strategists in the world, who have been talking about combating terrorism, have realised the importance of three stakeholders in achieving this. The three stakeholders are the armed forces, the citizens and the government.

When I talk about the armed forces, I am not talking about the army alone, we are talking about multi-sectoral agencies that are involved in the use of arms to be able to combat terrorism. The police, civil defence, Nigeria Immigration Service and others. America did not realise the importance of all these until they had the incident of September 11 terror attack. That was when they now had to establish the Department of Homeland Security. In the past, we used the army, just to be in defence of our territorial borders but now how much of the inter-state war do we hear? We hear more of intrastate; we hear more of an internal insurrection of different groups taking to arms against the government. So, the calling of the army has increased and the police are no longer talking to civilians and resolve issues. For instance, when the army degrades the Boko Haram, once they move, the police must be there to establish authority in the area. If they are not well trained, they would not be able to handle the matter.

Over 200 Chibok girls were taken away from here (Nigeria) and we had our immigration, the terrorists passed through them. There were forests guards, they passed through them and we have a number of other agencies at our borders, yet they couldn’t apprehend the fleeing Boko Haram kidnappers at the time.

If others are not active, the army should ensure they train together with others, coordinating expertise and resources to be able to fight insecurity as a team and plan as a team and believing in the capability of each component to deliver.

What about the government factor?

The government must be one that is responsive. The Government must use available resources around them to tackle insecurity but unfortunately, we have the government deficit here. The government must also be interested in addressing the needs of the people. The most important duty of any government is to provide security for the lives and welfare of the citizens. Once the government fails in providing security, it means they have nothing to deliver. So, the government must be knowledgeable about the security of the country.

The third most important element is the citizens. This means everybody which includes traditional rulers, civil society groups, the press. When the involvement of citizens in security is low, the other actors would not be able to do much.

For example, it is not possible for the air force to fly its jets into a community and identify where the enemies are; it is the duty of the people in the community to give them useful information that will assist them to be effective in the discharge of their duty.

Look at when America went to Somalia to arrest terrorist, with all their submarines, they couldn’t do it because people did not support them. You can see that if you don’t have citizens contributing to the fight against insecurity, including academia, nothing much can be achieved.

But you will see the situation whereby the academia is also exposed to the contradictions when lecturers are not paid salaries; they need to struggle like every other person, with these, they may not be able to contribute much. There must be synergy and even if the universities are doing their best and the army and the government are not there it won’t yield any positive result.

The Federal Government said repeatedly that Boko Haram had been technically defeated but these insurgents keep fighting back to prove them wrong. What do you think is responsible for this?

It is not that they are not correct when they say that the Boko Haram has been technically defeated, but it is a continuous process. It is supposed to be a system and that’s why I said a government must be a learning government-government that is based on knowledge. There is no government that can hide its information from the rest of the world these days. Take for instance Saudi Arabia, which did not know that the whole world would know what happened to Khashoggi in their embassy. They thought they could just cover it but information about all these things are coming out more and more accurately and precise. There is the Global Peace Index and Global Terrorism Index, so Nigeria cannot be an island existing on its own. What I discovered is that Nigeria is not supporting its research institutions so they have to depend on whatever report they are bringing from abroad. For instance, if you said the information from GTI is wrong, where is your own index to counter it? When institutions call them to support their research institutes, they will say ‘these ASUU people have started again’ not knowing that their researches are parts of what is needed to build the nation.

If you build your own intellectuals; if you have them available, if anybody is bringing data from anywhere, you will able to challenge them that it is not correct. Nobody can tell the Asians about their universities’ rating, but everybody can see their products. It is because we are not organised, we have human resources. Go to the armed forces, you will see individuals who have received sufficient training to proffer solutions to all these problems but the politicisation of everything is the bane of our development. Some would say the person is an Igbo, Hausa or Yoruba. Politicisation has made it impossible for us to appoint people based on merit. If you want to appoint someone, they will say he is an Igbo person, when you are doing something like tackling security it does not matter where you come from provided the person is a human being.

We have all these indices and many of them are precise. In fact, by the day, they are getting more and more precise. So, it is just the debasement of academic institutions and researchers that is limiting our efforts. How much are they putting into research institutes? Just check the budget of their universities elsewhere and you will be amazed at what they have, but here, everything is politicised. They don’t want to run universities in the standard format it should be. Look around us here, how many foreign lecturers can you see around? There is nobody who wants to come from any country to earn $1,500 as a professor. But elsewhere, they have good budgets for education; they are growing and they have their inputs to supports their governments.

There was a report from foreign newspaper recently that 1,000 Nigerian soldiers were secretly buried in unmarked graved and this generated many reactions. What is the security implications of this revelation?

Nigerians are politicising issues. When has the presidential candidate of the PDP become somebody calling on the government to investigate such information? He might have reacted that way because he lost the last election to the incumbent President. The government, on the other hand, will see the statement from the opposition as coming from its enemies and, therefore, such would be ignored. It is one of the things I said that once you do not get your things right, outsiders will bring right or wrong information to you. Some of the information cannot be trusted because they are not subjected to actual researches and data. But just like I said, if the government decided to hide it, the way things are in the world, before they know it, pictorial evidence of some of these things will come out. When they started telling the Saudi Arabian Government what happened to Khashoggi in their embassy, they were denying until they saw the video evidence. To me, I don’t want to listen to a political statement about security. As far as I am concerned, that report is still an insinuation.

You said before that you had an encounter with 6,000 Boko Haram members who were given amnesty. In your findings, what are the reasons these people joined the dreaded group and are they Nigerians?

When you listen to people talking about banditry and insurgency, you will realise that this is happening because of the presence of ungoverned species. I can tell you that Nigeria officially has about 168 border posts and out of these border posts, about 60 are manned. Majority of them are unmanned. So you should expect that people will come from other countries to terrorise you. When we brought people from all over the world to come and study our borders, I saw a number of unmanned border posts. When we got to a town called Iwoye in the Imeko-Afon Local Government Area of Ogun State, we saw a town there a part of it belongs to a Francophone country with the same traditional ruler with Yoruba people in the same town. That is an opportunity for anybody to be able to cross to Nigeria. This report is a security report, so there is a limit to what I can tell you about that place. But the essence is for us to know that there are some parts of this country, even in the North, that people enter through.

As for the reason why many of these people went into an insurgency, many of them have different reasons. I spoke with a man in the Hausa language why he joined the insurgents and he posed a question back to me that ‘is it not a religious calling?’ When Mohammed Yusuf ( Boko Haram leader) started, he preached against poverty, he preached against injustice which they see happening around them. So, they saw him as somebody addressing their problems. That was one reason many of them went there. They taught it was a religious struggle. When we started talking about Boko Haram, from my investigation, Boko Haram does not mean that education is a sin but it is the Western ways of life which promote cheating, prostitution, corruption and injustice that they consider as sin. They now found out that the vehicle that is driving these Western ways of life is education and that is why they are attacking it. If you observe Hausa marriage, when they want to bring the wife, they will first bring a veiled lady who is not the real bride before they would bring the bride. You see the prank they play, the woman they bring, they call it amarianboko which means the deception wife. They used to call Western education makarantanboko. Boko is not a book but it means deceit. They believe those who have Western education don’t read Quran and they don’t pray but they only insult Mallam. So, they now make the boko they are talking about to be haram. The understanding of religion, to these people, was presented to them in a negative manner. Poverty is another reason some people joined them. We saw some people that said when Boko Haram first came to their village, they ran into the bush while Boko Haram took over their villages waiting for the Federal Government troops to come and rescue them but when they couldn’t get support from the Federal Government and they were hungry, they had to go back to the Boko Haram people and once you go back to them, you must do what they are doing otherwise, they will kill you. Some also went to them because they want to get married. I met a man of 26 years old from Borno State, who said he had not married because of the strenuous steps he had to go through before getting married. Such a person now saw a place where they will give him a wife without much stress, he joined them.

Lack of education is another reason. I met many of them that had never been to any school in their lives. Education is very key. These people were easily manipulated because they lack basic education. As many reasons as possible were responsible. And I also found out that the majority of them are not angry even with the conditions they are going through because they have strong faith in Islam that God made it happen that way. They believe it is their destiny that they arrested them that way. If you ask if they will take revenge when they get back to the community, they will say no because it was God who made them had the experience.

How about those who were wrongly arrested?

I believe it was one of the reasons the President set up the presidential committee so that we could identify those who were wrongly arrested because there was no how the soldiers would have known who was who during their operation. One of the challenges we are having is that the number is so overwhelming that to be able to address some of those things by the government, it has taken a lot into our resources-both human and materials. But I can tell you that even the GTI acknowledged that the government of Nigeria had done tremendously in addressing the menace of insurgency. What we have now is a new form of insecurity coming up. The government needs to coordinate more. Academia should be engaged more so that they can proffer lasting solutions to the challenges facing the country. But if we continue with this uncoordinated approach, we won’t achieve anything. We have heard of bandits that were arrested some time ago that it was when they got to them that they discovered that they are not Fulani but were members of other ethnic groups. We are used to stereotyping things and that is even distracting our attention from being able to address the real issues. We have also seen people who had put politics into it; it is because some people lost elections so they started all these things. So at this stage, it is the responsibility of each of us to see that we have a safe country.

Kidnapping is currently ravaging the South-West and this is being blamed on Fulani herdsmen by most people. What is the cause of this?

Do you know that some people are beginning to see kidnapping as a business and businessmen will always look for where their businesses will thrive? They have discovered that when they kidnap someone in the South-West, they will get ransom easily. When they see that the government was attacking them in other regions, they started looking for other places where they can get soft targets and that was why they moved to the region. If you remember, there was an attempt to make Lagos State insecure by some group of people sometimes ago but armed forces came and flushed them out. All the government needs to do it to show responsibility in ensuring security in every part of the nation. Our people should also stop labelling kidnapping as the activity of people from a particular tribe but they should see it as insecurity which could come from any tribe. Our governors in the South-West should take charge now. They should coordinate our resources and expertise to fight insecurity now. This is the time the whole of South-West needs to come together, integrate their resources and flush the criminals out of the region. I agree with Prof Wole Soyinka when he said they should declare a state of emergency on insecurity in the region. The government needs to do more. It needs to be methodical and coordinate its activities.

But one of the problems I notice is that corrupt people are still very many in this government. It is not sufficient for the President alone to fight corruption but people working with him needs to eschew corruption and that is why I have pity for the present administration because I know it is not easy for them.

What can the government do to tackle unemployment, hunger and engender national cohesion?

Education is the solution. We need to get our education out of the state which it is today. Education should be able to prepare people for employment, not necessarily white-collar jobs. I have never seen a place where the population is a disadvantage like ours. It is supposed to be an advantage where everybody is taken care of. The only way is to improve our educational facilities. Let me give you an example; we happen to be one of the countries that use the highest number of Toyota products in the world but how many training and maintenance workshop has Toyota brought into the country? So, we are not building human capacity we need to be able to address some of these issues.

Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State suggested the dropping of zoning for the 2023 (presidential) election. Is this okay for Nigeria now?

Why must anybody be interested in becoming the president in 2023 now? It is because of the system we operate. If we have a structure that does not concentrate power in the centre, people will be more interested in who leads the region rather than the president. The statement of el-Rufai has a hidden meaning of injustice. Why must he be talking about dropping zoning arrangement now? It is a gimmick to ensure that power stays in the North beyond 2023. That is why we encourage federalism in the real sense of it so that nobody will continue to sit in Kaduna State to determine the fortune of somebody in Oyo State.

How do you think the government should treat the case of El-Zakzaky to prevent it from degenerating into another serious crisis?

To the best of my understanding, if the government releases El-Zakzaky today and ask him to walk on the street of Zaria in Kaduna state, I am not sure the people of Zaria won’t attack him because if you have lived in the North and you see the kind of life his followers are living in Kaduna, you won’t encourage the government to leave him. But I think the government can release him and monitor his activities.

What do you think is the implication of the recent RevolutionNow protest by Omoyele Sowore on the country?

Sowore, the leader of the group, started as an activist. He was publishing Sahara Reporter and everybody was interested in it. But he came to join the bandwagon of the people seeking political leadership and he failed; his protest will be seen to be a reaction borne out of his failure in politics. To make the matter worse, he was recently expelled from his party. He lost the reputation of people believing in the revolution the moment he joined politics. The Arab Spring didn’t come from any political interest. When you look at the people doing the RevolutionNow, you have to look at their reputation and their involvement in the recent past. If I was the President, I wouldn’t have arrested him because they are making a hero out of him now for arresting him. I would have just placed him on surveillance.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]