Bello emerges APC Kogi gov candidate, Bewa, Irukera kick
Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja

The incumbent Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, has emerged the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, in the primary held on Thursday.

He polled 3,224 votes to emerge the winner in a primary contested by 10 aspirants.

The governor was followed by Dr Babatunde Irukera who polled 109 and Hassan Baiwa who polled 44

Other results as announced by the returning officer are Yahaya Audu (10 votes),

Sani Lulu Abdulahi, (7 votes), Bashir Gegu (4 votes), Blessing Ekele (0) Iyoma Hadiza (0), Yakuba Muhammed (0) and Dalami Muhammed (0).

Announcing the result after the close of polls at 6pm, the Governor of Jigawa State, Badaru Abubakar, who was the returning officer, urged delegates to accept the result of the election in good faith.

He put the total number of delegates at 3,500.

However, Irukera said the election was fraught with irregularities, adding that the exercise fell short of acceptable norms.

Another aspirant, Bewa staged a walk out from the Confluence Stadium, Lokoja venue of the primary, alleging that the primary had been compromised.

READ ALSO: I can’t be a dep gov – Dino Melaye

Earlier, the vacation judge sitting at a Kogi State High Court, Lokoja, Justice Abdul Awulu, declined the ex parte application filed by Mustapha Audu to stop the governorship primary of the APC.

Audu had filed an ex parte application before the court and sought among others, an interim order restraining the APC and others from conducting the Kogi State’s governorship primary.

Ruling on the matter, Justice Awulu, said, “The issue to resolve is whether a court can restrain by an order of injunction the holding of a primary election by a political party. This is my view and I so hold that the holding or conducting primary by a political party cannot be stopped by an order of injunction.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]