We’re consulting on Igbo 2023 presidency —Ohananeze Ndigbo Youths
Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki

The leadership of the apex socio-cultural youth organisation in Igbo land, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, on Thursday said it had begun intense consultation with other geopolitical zones in the country to facilitate and ensure the emergence of an Igbo president in 2023.

This is even as the Igbo youth group noted that the various agitations that had emanated from the camp of the Indigenous People of Biafra and other pro-Biafra agitators in recent times would end should a Nigerian of Igbo extraction become president immediately after President Muhammadu Buhari.

The President-General of the pan-Igbo youth organisation, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, stated this during an interactive session with journalists in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State.

Isiguzoro urged political leaders from other zones of the country to disregard the recent activities of the IPOB, saying that “actualisation of the Igbo presidency in 2023 would mark the extinction of IPOB.”

He said, “The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, has already commenced consultation with Arewa Consultative Forum, Northern Elders Forum, and Coalition of Northern Groups, with the intention to seal the bond that has been existing between them as old allies since 1960.

“We are satisfied with the leadership of the South-East Governors’ Forum headed by David Nweze Umahi of Ebonyi State. He is a detribalized Nigerian who believes in one Nigeria.

“Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide observed there are fears in some quarters, especially from prominent Northern groups and leaders over the recent antecedents of IPOB towards destroying the trust and endangering the prospect of a Nigerian president of Igbo stock in 2023.

“With the realisation of Igbo presidency in 2023, Igbo will be happier in Nigeria, and activities of IPOB will fizzle out like a vapour.

“IPOB activities will end, with the realisation of a Nigerian president of Igbo stock. With insinuation that IPOB activities are working against Igbo presidential materials and potentials from the South-East, Nigerians might opt for full compensation for the marginalised region by voting en mass for an Igbo man to emerge as president in 2023.