NNDC state govs reject composition of NDDC board
Success Nwogu, Abuja

Governors of the oil-producing states have rejected the composition of the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission and some appointments made into the NDDC by President Muhammadu Buhari.

The governors are Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (Ondo) Godwin Obaseki, (Edo), Emmanuel Udom (Akwa Ibom), Seriake Dickson (Bayelsa), Emeka Ihedioha (Imo) and Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia).

The governors’ position was made known by Dickson after a meeting they held to review development pertaining to the NDDC in Abuja on Thursday.

Dickson, who spoke with the newsmen after the meeting said, “We are all unanimously of the view that we are concerned about the governance process of that very critical development agency. We are aware of the general dissatisfaction of the various states in the regions.

“We are also concerned about the way and manner the recent appointments have been made. Arising from all this, firstly we want to use this opportunity to call for calm in all our states following the recent announcement that we made.

“And accordingly, we have decided that as soon as it is convenient for Mr President, we intend to have an audience with him because we are critical stakeholders and the NDDC is a very critical developmental agency that is structured to partner, collaborate with the state governors who are critical partners.”

He said unfortunately, the oil-producing states had not seen much collaboration, adding that the governors would love to have an audience with President Buhari.

READ ALSO: Osun to peg secondary school leaving age at 18

Dickson added, “And as soon as his convenience permits to discuss in greater details, our views on some of this critical issues affecting the NDDC so that it will be repositioned for greater efficiency and then you have an effective governance mechanism, to carry on with their business. That is what we have met and agreed on.

“We want to end by calling for peace in all our states across the oil-producing states. We the governors are committed to meeting with the President to resolve these issues.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]