Tribunal: Abbo, Binos, others win, Fintiri knows fate today
Hindi Livinus, Yola

Governor Ahmadu Fintiri, will today know his fate as the governorship elections petitions tribunal decides on the petition filed by Action Peoples Party, seeking the cancellation of the governorship poll.

This is just as the National Assembly and State Elections petitions tribunal affirmed the victory of Senator Elisha Abbo and Senator Binos Yaroe, representing Adamawa North and South Senatorial districts respectively.

The list for judgment on the governorship election petition referenced EPT/AD/Gov./ 01/2019 said the case of the Action Peoples Party and Ahmadu Fintiri, Crowther Seth and Two others, posted on the tribunal’s notice board on Thursday, was slated judgement on Friday.

The APP, petition against Ahmadu Fintiri, Crowther Seth, the Peoples Democratic Party, and Independent National Electoral Commission, respectively listed as first to fourth respondent is seeking the nullification of the March 9 governorship polls and supplementary elections of March 28 because INEC unlawfully excluded its governorship candidate in the polls.

The Adamawa State National Assembly and State Houses of Assembly Petitions Tribunal chaired by Justice S. B. Akanbi, began ruling on cases for National Assembly elections and dismissed the suit filed by Sen. Ahmad Mo-Allahyidi of the All Progressive Congress challenging the election of Binos Yaroe as senator, Adamawa South Senatorial District, for lack of merit.

It also dismissed both petitions challenging the victory of both Abdulrazak Namdas, representing, Mayo-Belwa, Jada, Toungo and Ganye by Mukhtar Kabiru, PDP and that of Kwamoti Laori, member representing Demsa, Numan and Lamurde, filed by Bema Ovaldi, APC, also for lack of merit.

But in the other cases decided on Thursday, the tribunal affirmed the victory of Elisha Abbo after it dismissed the petition filed by Abbo’s predecessor Binta Garba.

The tribunal struck out the petition filed by Ibrahim Mustapha against Abdulrauf Modibbo, for the Federal House of Representative seat for Yola North.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]