Opposition parties ask Buhari to query ministers
Success Nwogu, Abuja

The Peoples Democratic Party and the Coalition of United Political Parties on Thursday, berated the Minister of Niger Delta, Senator Godswill Akpabio; the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola; the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed and others for throwing lavish parties after their inauguration.

It was reported that Akpabio after his inauguration was feted by a musician, Innocent Udofot, popularly called MC Galaxy, while some friends and supporters of Aregbesola were said to have held a party for the minister.

Also, a video clip of federal ministry workers who engaged in a sort of a carnival for the minister had gone viral.

The PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus in an interview with our correspondent, said it was worrisome and surprising that the ministers engaged in merrymaking when Nigerians had been unleased with security, poverty and hunger.

He said, “President Muhammadu Buhari has just recycled these same old ministers who had not performed. There is nothing to celebrate. Are they celebrating criminality? Are they celebrating looting?

“Nigerians have come to know that the country is not moving forward. We will never move forward with this setting.

“They are celebrating insecurity! They are dancing on the graves of people who are being killed every day! What more? There is no vision and no economic blueprint of a government for even ministers to implement.”

The CUPP spokesman, Ikenga Ugochinyere, said ministers were supposed to have been more concerned with innovative strategies that, will through their ministries, contribute to addressing the current national challenges.

READ ALSO: Unwanted NNPC interference, unpretentious Boris Johnson

He said the merrymaking did not show that the ministers understood the seriousness and urgency of tackling national challenges and making their ministries relevant for immediate and long-lasting solutions to Nigeria’s problems.

He called on President Muhammadu Buhari to query the ministers who were involved in such frivolous activities.

Ugochinyere said, “The lavish parties and carnivals hosted by almost all the ministers appointed by Buhari is a clear pointer to the fact that these set of appointees were celebrating their access to the treasury.

“The CUPP therefore call on the President to immediately query all those who held lavish parties.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]