CDD demands 2019 poll results on INEC website
Friday Olokor, Abuja

The Centre for Democracy and Development on Thursday demanded that the Independent National Electoral Commission should publish the official results of the 2019 general elections on its website.

While describing the 2019 polls as the most chaotic collation process ever witnessed in the electoral history of Nigeria, the organisation said it would consider using available means, including the use of the Freedom of Information Act to compel INEC to publish the results according to polling units.

The Director of CDD, Idayat Hassan, stated this in Abuja during the presentation of its post-mortem report on the 2019 election collation.

She said, “INEC should improve processes for conducting collation in line with international best practices. These can be tried in off-cycle elections, ahead of the next national ballot in 2023.

“lNEC should also transparently and proactively publish -via the INEC website and through the civil society organisations -official results for an election contests, showing a full and accurate breakdown of figures down to polling unit level.

“It should work towards developing a way of transparently making ward-level results easily accessible to, and searchable by, the general public. I think it is actually important for INEC to publish the results according to polling units. It is not just about going to court, it is actually what you and I can actually do through available means.

“Lagos, Osun, Kaduna, Rivers and Sokoto experienced significant problems with the ward level collation. Together these states accounted for 46 per cent of incidents of concern noted by our observers. The situation was especially bad in Rivers State where clashes between political thugs and security personnel -de facto proxy battles between top politicians in the state -disrupted several collation centres,” CDD stated.

It added, “Further amendment to the Electoral Act (2010) will allow for the introduction of electronic vote transmission which will reduce error in the calculation process and improve the pace of collation.

“The FoI is one of the means that could actually encourage INEC to do it. It is something that has formed observers’ report since 2011. The rules should be followed when it comes to INEC. In the last election, we witnessed a lot of intimidation of collation staff, observers and the media by security agencies and political thugs.

“This must not rear its head in the Bayelsa, Kogi and other off-cycle elections before the 2023 elections. The fact must be told that this was an election in which we witness many collation officers disappearing for more than 20 hours in several of the ward collation centres. This is the most chaotic collation process ever witnessed.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]