Jonathan, Wike shun Bayelsa PDP mega rally
Former President Goodluck Jonathan; Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers; Deputy Governor Rear Admiral Gboribiogha, retired John-Jonah, and Mr. Timi Alaibe, who came second in the Peoples Democratic Party primaries in Bayelsa State, were absent at their party’s mega rally held on Wednesday.

The mega rally was held at the Oxbow Lake Pavilion in Bayelsa to kick-start the party’s campaign ahead of the November 16 governorship election in the state.

Speaking at the rally, the National Chairman of the PDP, Mr. Uche Secondus, warned security agencies against being used to rig election for the opposition parties.

He stated that the PDP would resist any attempt to hijack electoral materials for any party or group of politicians.

Secondus urged Bayelsa people to vote for the PDP as the only political party that can take them forward.

The chairman decried lack of federal presence in terms of roads, bridges and infrastructural development in the state.

Speaking on behalf of other PDP governors, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State said Bayelsa belonged to the PDP and boasted that no other political party can defeat them.

He said that Governor Seriake Dickson had done very well for Bayelsa people, noting that no other political party could win any election in the state.

In his speech, Dickson said the PDP had been the only platform that had given people face and voice in Nigeria.

“PDP is the only Ijaw main party that all can feel and be carried along.

“Senator Douye Diri is the only one that can consolidate on the restoration government to take the state forward.

“I want to appeal to our people to vote massively for the PDP as we do not know any other party,” he said.

In his remarks, the governorship candidate, Senator Douye Diri, promised to continue with the good works of the Dickson administration, to take the state to its amiable height if elected.

He said that he will build the Brass Nembe road, build the Agge sea port and other laudable projects that he will initiate.

News Agency of Nigeria reports that in attendance were former Senate President Adolphus Wabara, and governors Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta; Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State; Seyi Makinde of Oyo State and Bala Mohammed of Bauchi, among others.

(NAN)