Abe, Rivers APC disagree over party’s crisis
Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt

A former lawmaker in the National Assembly, Senator Magnus Abe, has said that the directive of the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, to exclude him and some leaders of the All Progressives Congress from the activities of the party was responsible for the crisis in the party.

Abe in a statement he personally signed in Port Harcourt on Wednesday said aggrieved members decided to seek redress in court and succeeded in securing an injunction that halted the primaries of the party in the state.

The former lawmaker in the statement titled, ‘Rivers APC crisis: No one can rewrite history,’ said it was wrong for anybody to portray him as a desperate politician who destroyed his party because of his personal ambition.

He said, “Indeed, prior to the troubled congresses, the then state chairman of the party, Chief Ibiamo Ikanya, called an all-inclusive stakeholders/state SEC meeting of Rivers APC where all the issues were amicably resolved, including the distribution of forms to all aspiring party members.

“An all-inclusive committee was set up to implement the resolutions of that meeting, but as soon as the minister was informed of this move, he not only dissolved the committee but also voided the efforts and consensus decisions reached by the entire leadership.”

The Head of Amaechi’s Media Office, Mr David Iyofor, could not immediately respond to several calls to his phone, while a text message sent to him had not been replied as of the time of filing in this report at 8.51pm.

But the State Publicity Secretary of the APC, Mr Chris Finebone, said, “It is Senator Abe that is revising history. This is what is called revisionism; it is when facts have been established, some people want to revise it and change history.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]