National Assembly won’t fail Buhari, Lawan insists
Sunday Aborisade, Abuja

President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, insisted on Wednesday that the 9th National Assembly would give its maximum support to the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari to achieve a better, prosperous and secure Nigeria for the good of the citizens.

Lawan, according to a statement on Wednesday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Ola Awoniyi, gave the assurance in his native home, Gashua, late Tuesday at a Town Hall meeting to round off a thank you visit to his constituents in Yobe State.

He assured Nigerians that despite the presence of the opposition in the federal parliament, the All Progressives Congress-dominated chambers would always support Buhari’s programmes and policies.

He said, “Although there are pockets of opposition from other sides, I assure you all that we won’t fail the President.

“We will make sure the ninth National Assembly gives him (Buhari) the full support needed to achieve the Next Level agenda in the interest of our people and the country.”

Lawan, who returned to Abuja on Wednesday, assured Nigerians that his colleagues at the National Assembly would give good representation to achieve the set agenda.

He said, “In the current Senate, I have the full cooperation of the senators from the opposition parties, including the Peoples Democratic Party, because of the tremendous love and trust shown to us by President Buhari.”

Lawan, however, appealed for patience, saying there is no perfection in human beings.

“Where we haven’t performed well, I encourage you all to draw our attention to it, and as your representatives, we will work with the President to meet your expectations,” he added

Lawan announced a N10m donation to the victims of the flood incident in his Bade Local Government Area pending the intervention of the National Emergency Management Agency.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]