Ex-Edo lawmaker predicts end to Assembly crisis
Sola Shittu, Benin

A former member of the Edo State House of Assembly, Mr. Festus Edughele, on Tuesday expressed optimism that the crisis rocking the legislature would soon be over.

Edughele who represented Esan South East when he was a lawmaker, hinged his hope on the visit by Governor Godwin Obaseki, to his predecessor, Adams Oshiomhole, during the recent Sallah celebration.

Edughele in a statement in Benin, advised all parties to the crisis to reflect deeply on what becomes of a house that is divided against itself even as he expressed optimism that the storm would soon be over.

He said the cordiality and and brotherhood that pervaded the air when Governor Obaseki visited the APC national chairman was an indication that the crisis had been resolved.

While commending the governor for the bold step he took in visiting Oshiomhole in Iyamoh to celebrate Sallah, Edughele assured all the peace- loving people of the state that the much-needed peace would soon be restored in the state.

The former lawmaker called on all players in the saga to place the larger interest of Edo State and the APC, far above personal considerations and urged them to leverage the governor’s visit for genuine reconciliation.

He said, “Democracy does not mean absence of conflict, but anytime it rears its head, we must embrace conflict resolution mechanism in the spirit of give and take.

“The consolidation and deepening of democratic growth cannot be assured when impunity, intolerance, imposition and arbitrariness are allowed into the arena of making political decisions.

“We must be civil and decent in our conduct and allow contestation of ideas to be based on the noble values of fairness, integrity and social justice.”

He stressed the need to make sure that the APC remained one indivisible and united party, adding that trading blame and bickering can only lead to the escalation of crisis.

”Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]