ICYMI: Ogun PDP melts into APC as ex-deputy gov leads defection
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

Salmot Badru, a former deputy to ex-Governor Gbenga Daniel of Ogun (2007-2011), on Tuesday led over 1,000 supporters into the All Progressives Congress in the state.

Badru, who was a deputy governor in the state on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, declared for APC with followers who were members of Otunba Gbenga Daniel’s political family.

Our Correspondent gathered that Badru, a former chairperson of Ogun/Osun River Basin; Chief Iyabo Apampa and over 1,000 supporters were received by the factional chairman of the party, Chief Yemi Sanusi; his Secretary, Ayo Olubori; and Senior Special Adviser to Governor Dapo Abiodun on Political Matters, Tunji Egbetokun.

Speaking with our Correspondent on phone, Badru said she had quit the PDP for APC.

She said the development was to formalise her movement and that of her followers in Daniel’s group into the APC.

She said, “I am not just joining. I worked for the current governor, Dapo Abiodun; and if you follow the development, you will know that I was part of the transition committee.

“It is just to formalise my movement and that of my followers into the APC.”

When asked if she had written a formal letter to her former party of her decision to exit, Badru said, “I did not have to. Those who wrote the party over their exit, that is their own choice.”

She explained further that she did not consider it compulsory to inform PDP leaders of her defection.

“I don’t think it is compulsory for me to write. I was just a member. I am not a National Executive Council member.”

On whether her former boss, Gbenga Daniel, was informed, Badru said, “I am an individual; I am an adult. I can take a decision. I am over 60 years old.

“The Constitution stipulates that I can join any group I want. Yes, he is a leader and I must inform him. The decision is mine, he cannot prevent me from joining.”

She added that she and her followers had joined the APC long before the Tuesday move.

“We have been going to their meetings. Today was only a family meeting; it was just a formality. I have been in the APC before now.”

She added, “I have attended two or three meetings from the same family, we are over 1,000 today. It was a meeting, not a big event.

“We were received by the APC chairman, the secretary and the Political Adviser to the governor, Tunji Egbetokun.

“It was our own meeting. We want the followers to know that we are now in APC.

“We reaffirm that we are in APC and we believe in what we are doing.”