Ninth NASS won’t fail Buhari, Lawan insists
Sunday Aborisade, Abuja

President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, insisted on Wednesday that the ninth National Assembly would give its maximum support to the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari to achieve a better, prosperous and secured Nigeria for the good of the citizens.

Lawan, according to a statement on Wednesday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Ola Awoniyi, gave the assurance in his native home, Gashua, late Tuesday at a Town Hall meeting to end a thank-you visit to his constituents in Yobe State.

He assured Nigerians that despite the presence of the opposition in the federal parliament, the All Progressives Congress dominated chambers and would always do everything necessary to support Buhari’s programmes and policies.

He said, “Although there are pockets of opposition from other sides, I assure you all that we won’t fail the President.

“We will make sure the ninth National Assembly gives him (Buhari) the full support needed to achieve the Next Level agenda in the interest of our people and the country.”

READ ALSO: El-Zakzaky has Iran’s support to turn Nigeria to Islamic State —FG

Lawan who returned to Abuja on Wednesday assured Nigerians that his colleagues at the National Assembly will endeavour to give good representation to achieve the set agenda.

He noted that regardless of the fact that he got 79 votes out of 107 votes cast by senators during the Senate presidency election, the entire senate would support him to provide good leadership in the interest of the nation.

He said, “This (overwhelming victory) shows that there is a cordial relationship along party lines and that senators are ready to work for the progress of Nigerians and Nigeria.

“In the current Senate, I have the full cooperation of the senators from the opposition parties, including the Peoples Democratic Party, because of the tremendous love and trust shown to us by President Buhari.”

Lawan, however, appeals for patience saying there is no perfection in human beings.

“Where we haven’t performed well, I encourage you all to draw our attention to it, and as your representatives, we will work with the President to meet your expectations,” he added

Lawan announced a N10m donation to the victims of the flood incident in his Bade Local Government Area pending the intervention of the National Emergency Management Agency.

The Senate President assured his constituents in Yobe North that he would strengthen his efforts to meet their expectations.