South-West strategises for security outfit take-off
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

South-West governors have been holding a series of meetings ahead of the launching of the joint security task force aimed at tackling kidnapping and other criminal activities in the region.

Our correspondent learnt that the governors had acquired patrol vehicles and security equipment ahead of the launching.

Some people have been kidnapped and others killed by hoodlums in the South-West in recent times, forcing an increasing number of people to conclude that the national security agencies needed help from the states to protect life and property in the region.

The Special Adviser on Security to the Ekiti State Governor, Brig Gen Ebenezer Ogundana, who confirmed the security outfit would be launched soon, said they were making their final arrangements for the launching.

Ogundana said, “The six governors are still meeting, speaking with one voice that this region must be safe.

“Everything is set, almost all the states have got their vehicles. We have got ours in Ekiti. Security vehicles must have communication gadgets; we are at that level now. What actually delayed the take-off this month was the fact that every vehicle must have the equipment.”

The retired military officer added, “Three weeks ago the governors’ security advisers met in Ibadan to study the proposal and how it could take-off. The governors also got approval from the Office of the National Security Adviser to set up that outfit.

“What we are doing now is getting the logistics together. Each state is acquiring its own vehicles. We want to brand the vehicles.

“We will be deploying them along the roads so that people will move freely. We want to make our roads safe for travellers. If you don’t have security, you can’t have investments.”

Ogundana said the region had discovered that a spate of attacks, kidnappings and ritual killings in the zone was affecting its development, hence the governors decided to take action.

According to Ogundana, the task force will consist of soldiers, police and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps officers.

READ ALSO: Two nabbed for robbing LCDA boss, two others

He added, “We will also use vigilantes, Oodua People’s Congress members, Peace Corps, forest guards and hunters. These are the people who understand the terrain very well.

“We are not going to limit ourselves to the roads. We are going to occupy our forests and smoke the criminal elements out because we know our people are afraid to go to their farms now.”

He said the inauguration of the task force earlier billed for this month was postponed because of “the need to put our logistics in place”.

The security adviser said, “We want to get men and legislation in place so that we can take off.”

The state Commissioner for Information, Mr Muyiwa Olumilua, said Ekiti was ready for the take-off of the security outfit.

He said, “South-West governors came together to form a united front to battle criminality and they came up with their own arrangement like a security outfit.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]