Abe disagrees with Amaechi over APC congress
Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt

The immediate past lawmaker representing Rivers South-East Senatorial District, Senator Magnus Abe, has disagreed with the Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, over the conduct of the congress of the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State.

Abe said in a statement on Monday that the announcement by Amaechi that the congress would be conducted in Rivers was unacceptable.

Amaechi was said to have announced to his supporters shortly after his inauguration in Abuja by President Muhammadu Buhari that there would be congress in the state.

Abe spoke at the weekend when members of the APC Visionary Media Team paid him a courtesy visit at his residence in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital.

He said in a statement by his spokesperson, Mr Parry Benson, that rather than concentrate on contributing to national development, Amaechi was creating another avenue for tension and crisis in the political structure of the party.

The senator urged the minister to demonstrate his sincerity in rebuilding the party by consulting others and showing respect for the rights and feelings of all members of the party.

He said, “Look at the state of our party here today in Rivers State, yet the minister of transportation, on assumption of office announced congress in Rivers State.

“Everybody in Nigeria knows that the origin of the crisis in Rivers APC was from the congress and how the congress was handled.

“What kind of congress? Is he the chairman of the party? Is he the national working committee? Is he the court? What gives him the power to come and announce congress on the day he was inaugurated as minister?”

Reacting, the state Publicity Secretary of the APC, Mr Chris Finebone, explained that Amaechi never said he (Amaechi) was the one to organise the party’s congress in Rivers.

“It is the national secretariat that organises congresses and that should be well understood by all. Happily, I didn’t read in the statement that the Nigerian courts have ruled the APC eternally out of existence in Rivers State,’’ Finebone said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]