Osinbajo’s ally, ex-Naval chief, others lose N247.5m as APC disqualifies 12 Kogi gov aspirants
Late Gov Audu’s sons also disqualified

Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja

The Executive Secretary of the Consumer Protection Council and ally of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, Babatunde Irukera; a former Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Usman Jibrin (retd.); and 10 others have lost a combined N247,500,000‬ following the decision of the All Progressives Congress not to clear them ahead of Thursday’s Kogi State governorship primary, The PUNCH understands.

Others that will not be allowed to participate in Thursday’s primary in Lokoja include the two sons of late icon of Kogi politics, Abubakar Audu — Mohammed and Mustapha Audu; Prof. Seidu Ogah, Yakubu Mohammed, Hadjia Rukayat Ibrahim and Hadiza Ibrahim.

The remaining are: Yahaya Audu; a former President of Nigeria Football Federation, Sani Lulu; Danlami Mohammed, Gen. Patrick Akpa and Prof. Mohammed Onaili.

Those successfully cleared include: Governor Yahaya Bello, Mr. Abubakar Bashir, Ekele Aishat Blessing and Hassan Abdullahi.

The PUNCH reports that of the three women that faced the screening committee, only one was cleared.

READ ALSO: Nigerian embassy in Washington flays 78 citizens indicted by FBI

The APC had pegged the cost of its nomination and expression of interest forms at N22.5m each for men, while women were to pay N11.25m, representing half of the amount payable.

This implies that those who will not be allowed to participate in the election have lost a combined N247.5m.

The screening committee, led by Senator Hope Uzodinma, in a letter addressed to the APC National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole, dated August 22, 2019, noted that only four aspirants were cleared to contest the primary in the Confluence State.

Some of the reasons for disqualifying the 12 other applicants include not being loyal or financial member of the APC, age discrepancies and being new member(s) of the APC.

In the case of Irukera, for instance, the committee stated, “Not cleared: Invalid declaration of age; spent less than one year in the party and without waiver.”

For the former naval chief, the Uzodinma committee stated, “Discrepancy in the date of birth: One 16/09/1959 and on his passport, 16/09/1960. The aspirant admitted the error and apologised. Not a financial member of the party. No evidence of support to the party; invalid membership card.”