Why I joined Kogi gov race —Irukera
Mr Babatunde Irukera, a governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress in Kogi State has said that he is contesting in the Kogi governorship election to fulfil his vision for the development of the state.

Irukera, in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria in Abuja, said that his interests were aroused by the plight of the citizens and the need to ensure that the narratives by the people in the state would change for better.

He said that he was pressured to contest by the people but was convinced of leading the right team to maximise the potential of the state.

Irukera, who is the Director General Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission, said that although he was approached by a lot of people, both within and outside the state to contest, his vision for the development of the state motivated him most.

READ ALSO: $9.6bn: British firm listing Nigeria assets for seizure

“I am not going to say that people didn’t ask me or pressure me to do it; I am in the race in part because of the pressure and ultimately because I truly have a clear vision for the development of the state.

“I firmly believe that I understand exactly how to accomplish that vision and lead the right team to accomplish those objectives and finally because Kogi, as it is today, is not optimising its potential.

“I believe that given the opportunity to lead a strong team of very committed and bright people, we can truly transform the state and put it on the map of very progressive locations not just in Nigeria, but on the continent. Kogi has all it takes.

“So, I think there is an intersection between what I desire for the state and what the people of the state desire for themselves.

“It is that intersection that motivates me and that is where my passion to run and perhaps lead the state, if given the opportunity,’’ he said.

The aspirant said that he firmly believed in Kogi’s greatness, saying that under the right leadership with the right commitment and sacrifice, Kogi could become greater.

He said that apart from there being an unusual confluence of two major rivers on the continent, “Kogi is a state where you can find in large quantity any mineral resources that could be found elsewhere in Nigeria.

“Not to mention the closeness to Abuja; Kogi is also significantly endowed with arable farmland and good irrigation; the confluence itself is a tourist attraction if truly and fully maximised.

“Mount Patti is one of the highest points where you have a significant flat top that can be truly exploited for tourism.

“It’s a place where people come from different part of the world to visit. There is an annual clime there.’’

(NAN)