APC chiefs fault Obaseki over Ehanire, Agba
All Progressives Congress chiefs in Edo State, including John Mayaki and Samson Osagie, have faulted Governor Godwin Obaseki for not publicly congratulating Osagie Ehanire and Clement Agba on their appointment as ministers.

Ehanire is the new Minister of Health while Agba is the new Minister of State for Budget and National Planning.

Mayaki, who praised President Muhammadu Buhari for appointing the duo, who are from the state, said Obaseki was wrong to have allegedly snubbed his fellow party men.

In a statement, the ex-Chief Press Secretary to former governor Adams Oshiomhole said, “That the governor of a state cannot rise above petty politics to, at the very minimum, congratulate his fellow party men over their appointment as ministers is an unusual development in Edo politics where internal ruckus is often shelved for comradeship at the national stage.”

Mayaki added, “Obaseki must explain to Edo people why he cannot be a leader of all and why, at the state and national level, he continues to bring shame and embarrassment to Edo State with his immaturity, bitterness and anti-party activities.”

Former Minority Whip of the House of Representatives Osagie said the governor should have shown more maturity.

Also, a leader of the APC in Edo North Chief Orilade Ojo expressed his disappointment that Obaseki was not represented at a reception organised for Agba after Wednesday’s ministerial inauguration.

He said, “This is not the first time a governor will not be able to nominate a candidate for a ministerial position. In 2015, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole did not nominate Dr Ehanire, but he never raised any issue out of it…he worked with him in the overall interest of the state.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]