‘Royal rumble’ over alleged looting of govt properties
In this piece, FEMI MAKINDE examines the worrisome trend of immediate past governors and political office holders stealing government property at the end of their tenure

It is believed that larceny and other evils thrive in a society where there are no consequences for misdeeds.

This explains why greedy political office holders have continued to loot the nation.

From the federal to state and local government levels, reports are rife of political office holders looting government properties despite the poor state of the economy.

Allegations of stealing billions of naira are not new and Nigerians have become used to endless corruption trials.

In recent times, some of the new governors have accused their predecessors of looting the treasury and going away with government property.

In some states, ex-governors and their aides were accused of stealing furniture, curtains and other home appliances.

From Imo to Oyo, Kwara, Bauchi, Gombe and Zamfara states, allegations of stealing government assets were rife.

Another ploy allegedly used by some of the former governors accused of plundering is selling government property including houses and vehicles to themselves at ridiculously low prices when nearing the completion of their tenure.

In Oyo State, Governor Seyi Makinde accused his predecessor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, of going away with many vehicles belonging to the state government.

Makinde, who spoke through his Chief of Staff, Bisi Ilaka, alleged that Ajimobi, his aides and local government chairmen stole government property including office appliances.

He said the state government would ascertain the magnitude of the looting after the conclusion of forensic verification of government assets.

Ilaka said, “But from what we have seen so far, the scale of larceny by the last government is unprecedented. Everybody knows that getting cars is not the problem of the immediate past governor. Why did he take away government vehicles?

“It is not limited to him. His commissioners have gone away with vehicles, same as the heads of parastatals. There are no vehicles there and a lot of these cars were bought by the end of 2018 and early this year. Some were sold for a pittance.

“Even the local government chairmen went away with fridges and television sets. I can’t understand their mindsets. They say a fish rots from the head. If the governor had done this, what did we expect the commissioners, chairmen and heads of parastatals would do?”

Ajimobi, while explaining why his aides went away with government’s vehicles, said the officials paid for the vehicles based on the decision taken by the government.

He said, “We took the decision that anybody using vehicles at the time should take it away and pay. This is also practised by the federal and other state governments. When I got to the office, I didn’t see any vehicle. My brother, former Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala, took his vehicles away and I did not talk. There are civil servants, who steal whenever politicians are leaving government. Let them go and check those civil servants.”

He stated that the facilities and appliances at the Government House and the Governor’s Office were intact when he vacated on the last day of his tenure of eight years, saying he did not steal any item.

In Imo State, the allegations and counter-allegations between Governor Emeka Ihedioha of the Peoples Democratic Party and his predecessor, Rochas Okorocha of the All Progressives Congress, have been fierce.

Ihedioha had accused Okorocha, his family members, aides and cronies of plundering government assets.

The Committee on the Recovery of Imo Government Property headed by Jasper Ndubuaku alleged that about N50bn worth of property belonging to the state were missing after Okorocha’s exit.

Ndubuaku, however, claimed that three vehicles out of five allegedly taken away by Okorocha’s Aide-De-Camp had been recovered.

According to him, 66 utility vehicles are missing from the Government House and six of them have been allegedly traced to the wife of the former governor, Nkechi. He further alleged that all the furniture in the Ministry of Happiness and Purpose Fulfillment, which had Okorocha’s younger sister, Ogechi Ololo, as the commissioner, were also missing.

Okorocha has since debunked the claims. He said Ihedioha had sustained the campaign of calumny he launched against him while accusing the governor of breaking into his private residence and stealing documents apart from breaking into his daughter’s businesses premises.

Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrasak, also accused his predecessor, Ahmed Abdulfatah, of selling government’s chalets at ridiculously low prices to himself and his aides. The new government has threatened to charge those affected to court to retrieve the property.

The Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, has alleged that his predecessor, Mohammed Abubakar, spent N2.3bn to buy materials for burial in the state.

But Abubakar has dismissed the allegation, describing it as laughable.

The governor, who spoke through his spokesperson, Dr Ladan Salihu, in an interview with journalists in Bauchi, said the funds were spent between January and May 2019.

He explained that over N900m was spent on the purchase of shrouds while over N1.4bn was used to buy the wood for lacing the graves after burial.

He said apart from this, the government also discovered issues of corruption, venality, daylight robbery of the commonwealth of the people of the state.

Ladan alleged, “This money which ought to have been appropriated by the state House of Assembly before expenditure, all of a sudden emanated from our treasury books. How could you imagine that a state government, within five months, that is, between January and May 2019, spent well over N2.3bn on funeral materials, dresses for wrapping dead bodies and the woods that you lace the graveyards with.”

Bauchi’s ex-governor, Mohammed Abubakar, denied that he spent N2.3bn to buy funeral materials, saying his successor was desperate to tarnish his image. He, however, reportedly admitted spending N1.2bn on it.

The same thing happened in Gombe State where former Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo was accused of disposing of government assets without following due process by the incumbent Governor Muhammad Yahaya.

But the ex-governor, who spoke through the former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Muhammad Mailumo, denied the allegations against him.

He justified the amount the houses were sold while stating that there was an existing law which allowed government officials to buy their official vehicles at the end of their tenure.

The Chairman, Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership, Debo Adeniran, in an interview with Saturday PUNCH, said it was absurd for political office holders to be stealing despite the jumbo salaries and other perks of office.

Adeniran said, “Many of the governors are kleptomaniacs. They don’t need to steal but they steal and it is not because they need what they steal but they steal because they are used to taking things that belong to the state. It is caused by pathological greed. The stealing we are talking about is almost everywhere but most of the cases we hear are those whose successors are not from the same parties with the predecessors.

“They do this because they want us to hear the bad things done by their predecessors because they were not in the same parties. But it is something that has been going on for a long time.”

“However, to stop it, the Ministry of Special Duties which is the one carrying out inventories of government property should take inventory whenever a governor or any public office holder is leaving the office. That is where those who are carrying out verifications are honest. If they are not honest, there will still be stealing and cover-ups. You will agree with me that some of these kleptomaniacs called office holders can buy officials of the ministry over to cover their evil deeds.”

He added, “Also, the Code of Conduct Bureau has a lot to do by verifying what is declared. Where out-going governors go away with vehicles of different brands, this should have been taken note of by Code of Conduct Bureau and whatever these people did not bring to the office should not be taken away while leaving.

“If the Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission has been functioning, all the inventories would need to pass through them. By the time anything is missing, they will know and raise the alarm.”

Also, Professor Bolaji Omitola of the Department of Political Science, Osun State University, told our correspondent that it was disturbing that many political office holders were thieves.

He said, “Those who are supposed to serve us are taking so much. But we can’t say all of them are doing this because former Lagos State Governor, Babatunde Fashola, said he didn’t take even what they gave to others. I think he should be emulated. He said he was back in his personal house.

“The people will have to speak out against it and we should examine very well those we are voting into offices. Some are known thieves and there is nothing you expect a thief to do when he gets to the office than to steal. Also, any of them caught with stolen government property should be prosecuted irrespective of religious, ethnic or party affiliation.”

The National Chairman, Accord Party, Mohammed Nalado, who spoke to Saturday PUNCH, condemned the act of stealing by public office holders .

He said they should be made to understand that government property and assets did not belong to them but that they were put in place to enable them to work with ease.

Nalado , who is a former chairman, Governing Board of Federal Polytechnic, Kaura Namoda in Zamfara State, said he returned the two official vehicles attached to his office when he was leaving.

He said, “I refuelled the two vehicles and returned them and the workers said that was the first time they saw anybody doing that. But I told them that the vehicles were not mine but they were attached to my former office and whoever would come after me would also need them. Honestly, I don’t support former governors and other office holders going away with government property after leaving the office.

“Anyone caught with government property after leaving the office should be punished according to the law because that is stealing. If ordinary people caught stealing a tuber of yam or a goat could be tried and sentenced to prison, nothing stops political office holders from being punished just like that.”

In his reaction, the Dean, Faculty of Technology, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Prof. Benjamin Imasogie, said, “Some of them do not subscribe to continuity. They want to do everything to make sure that their successors do not match whatever record they had while in office. So, they do everything to slow them down. This shows that they are not patriotic and they are thieves. Anybody who steals is a thief, the position they occupy doesn’t matter. Our leaders should emulate great leaders in the world whose legacies are intact despite they left offices many years ago. “

As the allegations and counterclaims continue, it is still uncertain if the new governors will prosecute their predecessors and whether this ugly trend will cease.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]