Nothing can stop actualisation of Biafra –IPOB
EDWARD NNACHI

The Indigenous People of Biafra on Saturday said the most urgent task before its members presently was the liberation of Biafra and its people from ‘repressive and unbecoming government.’

A statement by the Director of Media and Publicity of the separatist group, Emma Powerful, quoted the organisation as saying that nobody could stop the group from actualising the dream of Biafra.

IPOB said the South-East governors and the Ohanaeze Ndigbo could not stop the actualisation of Biafra because of the resolve of members of the group to liberate the Igbo people from Nigeria.

The group maintained that a statement credited to the National President of Ohanaeze, John Nwodo, saying neither IPOB nor Ohanaeze Ndigbo could give the Igbo people Biafra was an indication that Ohanaeze and South-East governors were sabotaging the Nnamdi Kanu-led body from realising its dream.

The IPOB spokesperson stressed that though some politicians in Igboland might have been compromised by the Federal Government, this would not deter the group going ahead to liberate the oppressed Igbo people from Nigeria.

READ ALSO: We’ll surely attack South-East governors abroad — Kanu, IPOB leader

Meanwhile, The Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, on Saturday warned miscreants suspected to be members of the Indigenous People of Biafra, who had resorted to circulating all kinds of “lies and blackmail” against him and Ebonyi State Government on social media platforms.

Umahi disclosed this in a statement issued by his Special Assistant on Social Media, Emmanuel Igwe, saying that the miscreants had taken over social media where they dished out all kinds of unfounded lies in form of write-ups, audio and video recordings against him and his government.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]