FG lacks political will to end insecurity problems – Bassey
The President, African Council on Narcotics, Mr Rekpene Bassey, speaks on the need to re-jig the country’s security architecture, in this interview with MUDIAGA AFFE

There has been a steady decline in the security situation in the country, does it call for concern?

Of course, it does. Not only does it call for concern, but seriously so. And there are a number of reasons why it calls for serious concern. To begin with, some of the security challenges currently dotting the entire landscape of the country present themselves in significant dimensions in the forms of kidnapping for ransom, armed banditry, herders attacks, terrorism and insurgencies. Malfeasances like cyber fraud continue to present completely new challenges which our security agencies seem incapable of tackling effectively altogether because they are somewhat ill-equipped for this by way of training, structural measures and other requirements. The other parts of the security challenges that present themselves in the form of separatists’ movements and agitations appear to be a reflection of the hallmark of the early stages of the Nigerian Civil War. These indications are extremely worrisome and call for the political-will backed up by urgent actions in the ramification of sociological, economic, ethnic, cultural and religious measures to forestall a reoccurrence of the ugly 1967 incident. At this point, every stakeholder including political, academic, business and security elite, among others, must place their hands on deck to come up with proactive measures to stem the tide of steady decline in the security situation in the country. Integral to this is the way the government handles these several conflicts, crises and security challenges. The government must proceed beyond managing the situation to actually finding and/or resolving some of these intractable issues which manifest in injustice, poverty, exclusion, absence of social welfare, unemployment and poor governance. Indeed, the earlier our government and/or those in positions of authority understand that peace and security are predicated on fairness, equity, justice, liberty, human rights and good governance the better it will be for our security situation. The country is presently more divided than ever before due to elite conflicts. As we speak, several Nigerians are highly disenchanted, depressed and very sad because they feel frustrated and adversely deprived. The situation in the country is creating room for adaptive behaviour tending towards mass lawlessness, rebellion, defiance, disobedience and insubordination, unfortunately. This kind of drift is pretty much ominous and not good for our country and can only be allowed to fester in a failed state.

Is there anything security agencies are not doing right?

As the saying goes, change is the only thing that is permanent. We cannot deal with new challenges by sticking to old, obsolete, antediluvian and outmoded ways, strategies and modus operandi. The present dimensions of arms proliferation, insurgency, terrorism, kidnapping and even corrupt practices and financial crimes in Nigeria could not have been precisely contemplated some 30 years back. Newer dimensions and criminal tactics will keep emerging and now that we are faced with the reality of these security challenges, we must brace up to them. And that might entail new security doctrines, strategies and discipline. To answer the question directly, there are a lot of things our official security agencies are not doing right. Among them is that they are still stuck to the old ways of doing things like training, deployment of manpower, operational strategies and structural measures. Our intelligence assets, processes and processing are obsolete and wanting. There are problems associated with personnel discipline, lack of accountability and transparency- in fact, there had been known instances of collusion between security personnel and the criminal underworld. Remember the days of Deputy Superintendent of Police, George Iyamu, who supplied the Lawrence Anini armed robbery gang with weapons from the police armoury! Do you remember ex-Assistant Superintendent of Police Yugada Abbah? Remember Sergeants Habila, Sarki, Diphen Nimyel, Yasan Dana and others who were dismissed by the Nigerian police authorities in 2016 for selling arms to criminals? Remember Henry Okah, leader of the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, who got supplies of arms from the Army armoury in Kaduna? There have been cases of military personnel colluding with criminal elements involved in illegal bunkering in the Niger Delta. There are several of such examples of indiscipline which is quite sad. The best way to address some of these challenges is to completely restructure the entire security architecture of the country including the intelligence community, the police and military in particular. This would also entail rejigging the entire professional and operational orientation to spruce them up to contemporary code in addition to improved combat, law enforcement and intelligence training. There is also the need for improvement in operational doctrine on unconventional or asymmetrical warfare and kidnapping to be able to effectively counter and deal with the insurgency, terrorism and other national security issues. Perhaps this is the best time to revisit the national guards’ formation concept.

There are calls for the rejigging of the security architecture in the country, do you share in that view and why?

The calls for the rejigging of the country’s security architecture are valid, and I could not agree more with those making such calls. In fact, I completely align myself with such calls. The Nigeria Police, for example, needs to be reorganised; to be repositioned for more effective and proactive activities against the current upsurge in crime. Appurtenant to this call is the urgent need to delegate policing operations away from the present centralised system to include state police and neighbourhood security watches in the reflection of the myriads of security challenges confronting the nation. Besides national guards, the desirability of state police is urgent for a number of reasons. Besides the fact that they are likely to be able to handle low intensity conflicts which pose threats to our national security a lot better, they are likely to be more effective with intelligence work since they will know the local terrain a lot better still. What is more, the Nigeria Police is presently under-resourced in terms of human factor and funding. The system is also poorly managed and supervised. So are other arms of our security architecture.

If rejigged, what should be the immediate focus of the new security chiefs?

In my considered opinion, when rejigged, the immediate focus of the new security chiefs should be to completely overhaul the internal affairs of their various units, formations, departments and their entire body structures. This is absolutely necessary to ensure transparency and accountability. The rot in the system is pretty much messy. There are so many bad eggs in the system that is contaminating others. And this is not good enough for professionalism. Cleansing the entire system must, therefore, be accorded a first order security priority before anything else.

Do you see an end in sight to the escalating security challenges?

Unfortunately not anytime soon! Why? Because I have yet to see any resemblance of very strong political will on the part of the government to bring an end to these challenges. For instance, I don’t understand why there have not been sweeping changes among the present crop of service chiefs who I understand are overdue for retirement? Why would fresh blood not be brought in to manage our security architecture? But even such sweeping changes may just be a part of the way forward. Options among other approaches to the problem are to reconsider the present government’s attitude toward restructuring. Why is the government averse to restructuring aimed at fiscal federalism, which will go a long way in addressing some of the security challenges, crises and conflicts in the country? All said, I believe that revamping, upgrading and rebranding our law enforcement methods, intelligence community assets and capabilities could be a bold step towards checking the escalation of the country’s security challenges. Nobody seems to be touching on this, but there is a possibility that the so-called degraded Boko Haram fighters may be the same elements that are operating on our highways and some southern forests. Perhaps only good security intelligence can corroborate or discountenance such perception.

It is beginning to filter in that the military has not deployed the use of drones to gather intelligence on our troubled highway and forests in the South, what does this portend?

There is a little or no question about that. Technology is at the heart of successful security operations these days. The deployment of drones could indeed help the military in the execution of their security operations along the troubled highways and forests in the South more effectively most definitely. And I think the earlier they do so the better, more so that they have the human and financial resources for such deployment. I can only add that the types of drones that would make the most sense in the security situation under consideration for effective and precise area surveillance in the southern terrain must be extremely robust with super optics for rugged long-range operations. Of course, the deployment of such drones can only be complemented by ground forces for real-time, quick and rapid intervention.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]