Buhari, ministers to pursue PIB passage, power reform
John Ameh, Abuja

President Muhammadu Buhari and ministers- designate have listed the speedy passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill, Deep Offshore Oil and Exploration/Production Bill, as well as addressing the liquidity challenge in the power sector, among the tasks to be executed in the next four years.

They also resolved to invest more in human capital development, combat insecurity, implement measures to reduce leakages and focus on “early education and health insurance.”

The resolutions were agreed upon at a two-day retreat for the ministers-designate and other senior government officials, which ended in Abuja on Tuesday.

The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, read out the resolutions ahead of the inauguration of the ministers on Wednesday (today) by Buhari.

He said, “The work we have done here has been critical to laying the foundation for what we will accomplish in this administration.

“Now it is time to turn our words into actions; to take everything that we have learned, all the strategies and approaches that we have discussed, to execute our priorities. The people of Nigeria are looking to this administration for result.

“A monitoring and evaluation framework will also be instituted to track the performance of each ministry against its cascaded strategic initiatives based on the outcome of this retreat.”

Buhari, in his closing remarks, reminded the ministers of the challenges ahead of them, saying the majority of poor Nigerians were impatient for results.

He said, “Ladies and gentlemen, majority of our people are poor and are anxiously hoping for a better life. A Nigeria in which they do not have to worry about what they will eat or if they can afford to pay for their children’s education or health care.

“Our responsibility as leaders of this great country is to meet these basic needs for our people.”

Buhari noted that from the quality of deliberations at the retreat, it was clear that the ministers too knew what was expected of them.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]