I didn’t influence deputy governor’s nomination – Abiodun’s wife
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

Wife of Ogun State Governor, Bamidele Abiodun, has said she knows the state deputy governor, Noimot Salako-Oyedele, for more than 27 years but, did not influence her emergence as the running mate to her husband.

The governor’s wife said the duo attended the same primary and secondary schools, declaring that she had the confidence that she would be a fantastic deputy governor.

Bamidele stated this on Saturday at a reception organised by the Awori Welfare Association of Nigeria in Lagos State to celebrate the deputy governor as the first deputy governor from Aworiland in Ogun state.

She said “I know the deputy Governor better than most people seated here today because we went to primary and secondary schools together but, I never influenced her emergence as deputy governor, but, I was very happy when she emerged.

“I am sure she will be a fantastic deputy governor because I am confident of her intelligence.”

The Olota of Ota, Oba Adeyemi Obalanlege, advised Salako-Oyedele to be magnanimous in victory and embrace her adversaries that stood against her during the election.

He enjoined all to exhibit a strong demonstration of patience, perseverance, steadfastness, obedience and commitment to help her succeed.

He said, “We must cooperate. Only then can we succeed as a people. Let me state that only God puts people in positions of authority.

READ ALSO: EFCC charges woman with collecting N22.9bn from Dasuki

“I plead with you to be magnanimous in victory and embrace all Awori sons and daughters as you climb up the ladder of societal recognition.”

Other dignitaries at the event included the representative of the Ooni of Ife, Oba Babatunde Awosile; former Senator representing Lagos West, Musiliu Obanikoro; Speaker of the Ogun State House of Assembly, Olakunle Oluomo and former deputy governor of Ogun State, Mrs Salmot Baduru.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]