INEC is Nigeria’s greatest threat to democracy – Edo PDP chairman
The Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Edo State, Chief Dan Orbih, tells SOLA SHITTU that the crisis rocking the state’s House of Assembly, in which the All Progressives Congress lawmakers occupy all the seats, shows the ruling party lacks the capacity to rule the state

What is your view about the current crisis rocking the ruling APC in Edo State?

You will recall that most of the state Houses of Assembly went straight into electing their principal officers after May 29 and they have been carrying out their legislative duties since then. But here in Edo State, we have a situation where some members of the House of Assembly are claiming that the House has been properly inaugurated while other legislators from the same party are maintaining that the governor has not properly translated his letter of proclamation. So, it is clear here that instead of governance, what we have been having in Edo State is a conflict between the godfather, Adams Oshiomhole, and his godson, Godwin Obaseki. Whether they like it or not, the conflict is a disservice to the people of the state. What this has shown clearly is that the state deserves something far better than what we have now. We have the APC occupying the 24 seats at the House of Assembly and nobody can accuse the PDP of being behind this ugly development in the House. It is a fight between factions in the ruling party. It is very clear now to the people of the state that a party that cannot manage the affairs of just 24 lawmakers cannot manage a whole state like Edo. We urge Edo people to vote out the APC and embrace the PDP in the governorship poll holding in 2020.

In the last election, the ruling party won all the 24 seats in Edo State House of Assembly. How come the PDP did not win just one seat despite its acclaimed popularity?

If you want to examine why this is so, you must look beyond Edo State and look at the Independent National Electoral Commission which is the institution that is constitutionally empowered to conduct elections in the country. You must also look at the records of the present leadership of INEC before coming to Edo State. I am very proud to let you know that in the same 2019 election, the PDP won two senatorial seats out of three. We won four House of Representatives seats and even some of the other seats are now being contested at the tribunal. At the end of the day, the number of seats won by the PDP could even be more. But what played out at the state House of Assembly is probably something that we still find very difficult to understand. We have not been able to unravel the magic they used to get all the 24 seats. However, it’s often said that in every disappointment there is a blessing. I think what we see playing out in the House of Assembly is a clear testimony that God exists. We now have a House that is populated by members of one party but that House cannot take off.

I think for our democracy to thrive, there is the need to revisit the INEC because this is the body that is constitutionally empowered to conduct elections. From some of the revelations coming out after the conduct of last elections, it is obvious that the greatest threat to Nigeria’s democracy today is INEC. We have a situation where the results that were declared in some areas where there was insecurity, where people could not come out to vote, were more than results from states where there were no crises. I think it is very clear to Nigerians now that the greatest threat to our democracy is INEC. Today, INEC is talking about a server or no server, there are lots of contradictions. You see a lot of memos issued by INEC; a lot of guidelines and immediately after the election once they discovered that their positions couldn’t be sustained, they came out to say another thing. So, I think there is the need to look at INEC as an institution and bring about changes that will make it to be truly independent in its decisions and finance. The law must also protect them against executive rascality and denials. Until that is achieved, we will continue to have elections that are skewed to favour those who are in government at any given time.

READ ALSO: Osinbajo, govs, Oshiomhole, attend Oyegun’s 80th birthday

Can you compare the present INEC headed by Prof Mahmood Yakubu and the past one?

Well, it is difficult to compare them in the sense that both operated at different times, under different leadership and different political parties. Under the PDP, you can say to a large extent that INEC was truly independent in making decisions. You can say that there was no interference under any guise and Edo State is a clear example of this. The PDP was in government, they did election here and at the end of the day, the party was shown the way out and that was how Adams Oshiomhole came into government through the tribunal. But in the present situation under the APC-led government, when elections are conducted and they discover that the opposition party is going to win, they would stop it and use their calculator to determine the areas where they would need to do run-off so that they can get the result they want. I don’t think that is good for our democracy. My advice is that the government should learn how to be fair and allow INEC to do its job the way it should be done. In Edo State, during the last governorship election, the President came here to campaign for the APC candidate and security reports showed that PDP was going to win the election. The President got back to Abuja and the APC leaders said if the ruling party wanted to win the poll then the election must be postponed. The chairman of INEC was holding stakeholders meeting here in Edo and he told us that the election would hold on the date it was originally fixed. The Inspector General of Police in Abuja said the election in Edo State must not hold on the date. We confronted the INEC chairman and he said the election would hold as scheduled; he said he was the chairman and he could tell us that the commission was fully prepared for the election and that nobody had discussed anything about postponing it with him. By the time he got to Abuja, he was asked to choose between remaining the INEC chairman and conducting the election in Edo State on the date the poll was earlier fixed. At the end of the day, we were not surprised that the man, who said he was not going to change the date of the election, had to bow to the order of the government of the day that they would not hold the election on that particular date. So, you can see very clearly that INEC, as it is today, is a department of the APC-led Federal Government. The word ‘independent’ does not exist in INEC. The electoral body is not independent whether in decision or in finance. It depends on the government in power to carry out its constitutional duties, that is how bad the situation is.

What is your take on the insecurity in every part of the country?

You will agree with me that the security situation in the country has never been this bad since independence. Today, people can no longer travel freely from one place to another. This situation is affecting even the economy of the nation. Those who are farmers no longer feel free to go to their farms. Farmers are attacked on a daily basis on their farms. Those who are lucky to get to the farm and are able to harvest their products cannot even take their harvests to the market where they can be purchased. So, the insecurity is of great concern to us. There is hardly any day you read newspapers and you don’t read reports of people being killed in Zamfara, Enugu, Edo, Kogi states and others. On Lagos – Benin Expressway and many other roads in the country killings occur everyday. There is no place you can point to today that is safe. You will agree with me that the primary duty of the government is to protect the lives and property of the citizens but that is not the case now. People are not safe. Their security has been compromised by the activities of Fulani herdsmen, kidnappers, bandits and Boko Haram insurgent, among others. It appears that the government is not doing anything to bring the situation under control.

Talking about herdsmen and insurgent groups, what do you think in your view is hindering the government from taking decisive action?

Perhaps, only the President is in the position to tell us what is his major handicap in ensuring that the people are safe in this country. The President is the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces and he is in total control of all the security agencies. If he and the security chiefs are unable to put the situation under check, the President should take the responsibility for the failure.

Do you see any hope in sight for the PDP in Edo State?

The PDP is a very strong force in Edo State. Even when former President Goodluck Jonathan lost his election, we won two senators, out of three and won five House of Representatives seats out of nine. This time round, with the national chairman of the APC coming from Edo State, leaving the government after eight years as governor of the state and handing over that power to another APC governor, we lost Edo State in the presidential election and National Assembly elections. What I want to say is that if they conduct a free and fair election, we will defeat the APC in the state. Now the crisis has not helped their situation. The bitter conflict between the godfather and his godson, the governor, is rather unfortunate. My advice is that they should start packing their bags and files from the Government House. Edo people are tired and disappointed at what they are seeing today. It is an early quit notice that will be well executed by the determined people of Edo State in the coming governorship poll.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]