INEC’s conduct at tribunal undermined its neutrality –Atiku, PDP
Ade Adesomoju

The Peoples Democratic Party and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, have said the Independent National Electoral Commission has by its conduct at the hearing of their petition challenging the outcome of the February 23, 2019 presidential poll, undermined its acclaimed neutrality.

The petitioners stated this in their final written address filed before the five-man Presidential Election Petition Tribunal on August 14, in response to INEC’s objection to the admissibility of thousands of documents they tendered as exhibits.

They contended through their lawyer, Dr. Livy Uzoukwu (SAN), that INEC at the hearing of the petition, did not only abandon its role as an electoral umpire, it “embarrassingly” competed with President Muhammadu Buhari, as to who would provide a better defence for him.

They told the Justice Mohammed Garba-led tribunal that INEC, whose legal team is led by Yunus Usman (SAN), went to the extent of turning around to object to the admissibility of some exhibits that had been admitted by its consent at the point of tendering.

They stated, “The 1st respondent (INEC) has filed a written address advancing reasons for the objections taken at some of the documents tendered by the petitioners at the trial.

“This reply is the petitioners’ response to the grounds of objections canvassed by the 1st respondent.

“The 1st respondent’s conduct in this case has greatly undermined its trumpeted neutrality and role as an electoral umpire. It has totally abandoned its constitutional role and is embarrassingly struggling with the 2nd respondent (Buhari) as to who will provide a better defence for him.

“In INEC v. Otti (2016)… Galadima, JSC, (as he then was) asked rhetorically, ‘Is INEC not expected to be neutral and to discharge its statutory responsibility in all election matters? Does it want to cry itself hoarse more than the bereaved?’

“During the tendering of Exhibits P3, 17 – 23, 24, 25, 27, and 28, the 1st respondent indicated that it was not opposing the tendering of the above documents. However, in its objection hereof, it stated that it was opposing Exhibits P1 – 3463!

“The documents have been admitted by its consent, it can no longer be objected to by it.”

They also detailed the objection of INEC to the admissibility of thousands of result sheets in respect of the presidential election in Gombe Bauchi, Kaduna, Kano, Borno, Jigawa, Kebbi, Niger and Yobe states.

They urged the tribunal to overrule the electoral body’s objection to the documents which they said were certified by its officials in the various states.

They also described as misconceived the duplicate pink copies of the result sheets of the election for Zamfara State.

The petitioners are by their petition challenging the victory of Buhari and his All Progressives Congress at the February 23, 2019 poll.

The tribunal had fixed August 21 for closing arguments in the case.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]