Kogi/Bayelsa polls: PDP warns aspirants against violence
Success Nwogu

The Peoples Democratic Party has warned its governorship aspirants for the November 16 governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states to avoid any act of violence and intimidation.

The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, gave the warning in an interview with our correspondent in Abuja on Saturday.

He said the party was committed to organising free, fair, credible and transparent primary elections in the two states.

The party also charged the aspirants to conduct themselves according to the party’s laid down procedure before, during and after the screening of aspirants scheduled for August 21.

Twenty one governorship aspirants from Bayelsa State and 12 aspirants from Kogi State have bought the expression of interest and governorship nomination forms.

Notable aspirants in Kogi State aspirants are a former Governor Idris Wada; Dr Joseph Ameh; Air Vice Marshal Salia Atawodi (retd.); Senator Dino Melaye; Abubakar Suleiman; Grace Adejo and Mr Abubakar Ibrahim.

While the prominent governorship aspirants from Bayelsa State are the incumbent deputy governor of the state, Rear Admiral John Jonah (retd); a former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Timi Alaibe; a member representing Sagbama/Ekeremor Federal Constituency, Frederick Agbedi; the senator representing Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, among others.

Ologbondiyan said, “The aspirants should conform to the process of screening as established in the party. It is a known process in the party.

“Screening of aspirant is part of it and after the screening, there is always the appeal committee on the screening in case there are grey areas or issues and an aspirant wants to appeal the decision of the committee. They have an advantage of achieving that.

“They should not engage in any act of violence or intimidation. As a matter of fact, we do not have members who engage in violence and none of our aspirants will conduct themselves in a violent act.

“What we guarantee all aspirants and the general public is that we will conduct primary elections in Bayelsa and Kogi that will be free, fair, credible and transparent.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]