Hoodlums invade Benue APC secretariat, destroy property
John Charles, Makurdi

Suspected hoodlums invaded the All Progressives Congress secretariat in Benue State in the early hours of Sunday, destroying some valuables, including documents, computers, windows and doors.

The hoodlums were said to have invaded the office located on the Joseph Tarka Way, Makurdi, the Benue State capital, around 4am on Sunday and forcefully removed the window bars to gain access to the office of the acting state publicity secretary of the party, James Orguga, and the computer room.

The hoodlums, who were reported to have harassed and intimidated the security guard on duty, ransacked the office and asked where documents were kept.

The invasion of the APC secretariat came barely 24 hours after the Benue State governor and the Peoples Democratic Party governorship candidate in the 2019 elections, Samuel Ortom, had gone to the governorship election petitions tribunal, sitting in Makurdi, to close his defence in a petition filed against him by the APC governorship candidate, Emmanuel Jime.

Orguga, who confirmed the incident, said four hoodlums were involved in the invasion.

He said that no document was removed from the secretariat, adding that the hoodlums destroyed the computers and littered the office with papers.

The APC spokesman said, “They didn’t go with any document. However, I don’t know how they broke into the premises before gaining entrance into my office. In fact, they broke the window to the office and removed the burglary (sic) on the main door, ransacked everywhere and littered the office.

“They also entered the computer room at the secretariat and scattered all the computers and books there. The security man came out and asked one of them who was standing outside what they were doing.

READ ALSO: Buhari campaigner, 35 others get crude-for-fuel contracts

“One of the invaders confronted the security man with a gun and told him to take them where we keep our official documents in the office and the guard said there was no separate office where we kept documents. They now commanded him to lie down and they started molesting him.”

He said the invasion of the party secretariat might not be unconnected with the ongoing case at the tribunal, adding that the attack on the party secretariat had been reported to the police.

But when contacted, the command Public Relations Officer, Sewuese Anene, said she had yet to receive such a report.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]