Why kidnapping, robbery are increasing in South-West — AIG Zone 11, Oyebade
The Assistant Inspector-General of Police in charge of Zone 11, comprising Oyo, Ondo and Osun states, Leye Oyebade, speaks with BOLA BAMIGBOLA on the spate of kidnapping and other security challenges in the South-West

In recent times, kidnappers seem to be on the rampage in the South-West region, what could be responsible for this surge?

As a society develops, crime increases, and with the advent of technology with modernisation and globalisation come many negative developments. However, it is important to know that kidnapping has become part of the crimes being committed now because of the development of the society and a lot revolves around the mobile phone, like when people hack into other people’s accounts. The zone I oversee is not an island; people from other states transact business here, so the movement and interactions bring some security challenges to the zone. People come from other places to settle here and that leads to an increase in population, trading and other transactions. We shouldn’t forget that mining activities might go up here soon and mining operations have their own challenges too. So, these are the issues that come with kidnapping. I think our zone is still one of the safest in the country.

There are insinuations that the police are overwhelmed with the security challenges in the zone. How would you react to that?

That is not true. In our approach to combating crime, we deal with statistics and I can tell you that if you compare the rate of crime recorded in the third quarter of last year with this year’s first quarter, there has been an improvement. No doubt, we need to step up our game but we are never overwhelmed. If you travel along some of the corridors that have witnessed some security challenges in our zone, you will see that we have upgraded the security arrangement in those places. We have arrested a number of kidnap suspects and they have been identified by their victims. We also do diligent prosecution of these cases after proper investigation; we don’t just rush to the courts or press. A major development that is coming soon is a plan to upgrade the security architecture. We are combating them on the ground; we are prepared to do aerial surveillance to be able to monitor them from the airspace. I am very sure we will surmount the challenges with the innovations we are coming up with. We are ahead of the criminals, because we think ahead.

But people have always said that the Nigeria Police Force is often reactionary instead of being proactive and if you say crime increases as a society develops, does it not mean the NPF didn’t prepare ahead of the security challenges we are facing now?

Like I said earlier, when a society develops, crime is definitely part of the things that will develop with it. We have a prepared arrangement that will address what we are experiencing in recent times. With the upgraded security architecture of those affected roads, especially in the areas we have recorded some incidents in recent times, those problems have been addressed. Also, we have our control rooms that are always open in the three states and we have circulated our dedicated numbers. With these, we have been able to identify the blackspots through the distress calls we get and that has helped us to plan ahead, like knowing where to position our highway patrol vehicles in order to boost the confidence of travellers. We will continue to collaborate with members of the public. That is why we will continue to have the stakeholders’ forum, which was launched on April 25, 2019. The forum has been very effective and it has academics, representatives of the three governors in our zone, non-governmental organisations, the leadership of transport unions and others. It is like an extension of the Police Community Relations Committee. Our proactive nature was what informed that innovation and it has been helpful.

READ ALSO: Obono-Obla being persecuted by Buhari’s anti-graft war enemies – SPIP prosecutor

Some routes in Oyo, Ondo and Osun have become very notorious for kidnapping, why has it been difficult to deploy your men to man these areas?

We have the capacity and recently we upgraded the number of our men on the roads. It is not that policemen were not on those roads ab initio; they were usually there, but we have increased the number, especially the routes you regarded as being notorious. We have members of the Safer Highways Patrol that are also on the ground. At Iwaraja, Apomu, from Asejire down to Ipetu-Ijesa junction, if you traverse that stretch, you would see that we have more men there and there are other measures I cannot disclose to you. I would not want anybody to avoid those roads for now; they are safe. We also have the Marine Police at the waterfront to block those criminals from escaping. Around the waterways in Ondo State, when you get to the Ore-Igbokoda-Ilaje axis, we have upgraded our security architecture to the extent that criminals cannot easily operate there. They can’t operate there without being caught. So, I can assure you that those identified roads are very safe for commuters to travel.

The Odua Peoples Congress has threatened to step in if the police fail to address this insecurity, does it not seem like people are losing faith or becoming impatient with the police?

All sectors have been involved in all the meetings we have had since I resumed office. The meetings have been very robust with a very good output. The OPC and other organisations that have an input should bring them. They are welcome to the Zone 11 stakeholders’ forum that we have launched. They (OPC) cannot take over the work of the Nigeria Police Force. They can only contribute their quota by giving credible information for us to work with. I want to tell you that we are speaking with all the sectors; we are not isolating anybody because in crime, when we get a criminal, we do not identify the religion or the tribe. Crime is crime and a criminal remains a criminal regardless of the tribe or ethnic background they belong to. So, we are open to all people that have credible information for us. Even those that want to criticise us, provided it is done in good faith, we will receive them.

Arms proliferation is another issue of concern when talking about the growing insecurity. Is it impossible to mop up these weapons and discourage the influx of more?

We are mopping up the arms as I speak with you. In the recent past, we recovered a large cache of arms in Ibadan. Even at our border communities, we have upgraded our security at Saki, Igboho and other towns that are having relationships with neighbouring countries. If you go through the Ibarapa area, Igangan, up to Igboora and Iganna among others, we have upgraded our security there. We have recovered more arms from the miscreants using them and each time we get them, we make a very strong presentation in the court for them to be well prosecuted.

How many weapons has your zone retrieved from criminals?

Just like I stated earlier, we have been doing proper investigation and prosecution of arrested persons. During our mid-year press briefing, we reeled out the figures. One of the arrests we made was that of a fake doctor arrested in Osun State. Some weeks ago, we also arrested some groups of kidnap suspects who confessed to the crime. Also, the commissioner of police in Osun State got the leader of a big-time cult group that had been on the run. He has been arrested and duly prosecuted. A lot of arrests have been made. In Ondo State, those gangs who terrorised people going to banks and collected their money have been apprehended. As I speak with you, they are in court. In Oyo State, there have been many gangs parading themselves as members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers that even wanted to disrupt the inauguration of the governor. They were arrested and have been duly prosecuted. We also arrested some ritualists. So many vehicles have been recovered; many of these cases are in the public domain. We have been making a lot of arrests and we have been prosecuting diligently.

But people complain that the number of arrests made is not in tandem with the level of prosecution. How many of these criminals have you arrested and how many have you prosecuted?

In the administration of criminal justice, the Nigeria Police Force is not the only organisation involved but we work with others. The duty of the police is to investigate and take cases to court. The ministry of justice is involved; likewise, the office of the Director of Public Prosecution is also involved. Before we prosecute, we send the cases to the DPP for legal advice. Then, the judiciary also has a role to play while the reformation role is to be played by the prison. When they come out of prison, are they properly reformed? So, the police work with other sister organisations in the administration of criminal justice and all of us have roles to play in ensuring that we bring down crime to the lowest ebb in the society.

The police has maintained that Nigeria is safe, even in the face of the insecurity in the land, do you still maintain that stand?

Nigeria is safe. With due respect to the press, sometimes, the social media does a lot of havoc by recycling old stories. And knowing that good news do not sell again, people will prefer to post the bad news to attract attention. Believe me; we have a safe country. Nigeria that I see is going to be safer with what we are doing in the Nigeria Police Force. The community policing initiative is bringing people closer to us and strengthening the confidence and trust of members of the public. Every society has its own challenges. We have ours but the Federal Government has been able to equip the police the more. We are recruiting more persons and we are getting more equipment, technology-driven equipment for that matter. I can say we are moving forward and I believe that Nigeria is safe.

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Yoruba monarch in Zamfara, brother battle over father’s property

Recently, roads like Ilesha, Owo–Akure and many other roads are now being avoided by travellers because of the fear of being kidnapped. What, specifically, have the police under your supervision done about this?

Like I said, we have identified the blackspots and we have put stop-and-search points there, not roadblocks. They are to reassure commuters on those roads that the road is safe. Not only that, we have patrol vehicles that crisscross these roads. The Operation Puff Adder that has been launched is also a step in the right direction. I would not want anybody to avoid these roads with the idea that they are not safe. There is no society that is free of crime, how it is addressed is what matters. At the moment, we have developed a template where our Public Relations department could go to schools to educate our children on the dangers of taking drugs. We even want them to form clubs, just like we used to have the literary and debating society in schools in those days.

What has been your approach to dealing with the challenges that come with your job?

The challenges are surmountable if we show commitment and dedication to duty. There is an adage that says a fish rots from the head; that is why in my zone, I try to lead by example and be a team player. I carry my officers along in all that I do; I listen to their contributions because they are assets and that makes the work easier. We also work with our sister agencies vertically and horizontally, which has equally helped. There is a Yoruba adage that says whether it is the man or woman that sees a snake, the main thing is that the snake should not be allowed to escape. People now have trust in giving us information and that makes our job easier. So, our community policing initiative has made the job not to be as difficult as it should have been.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]