Food ban: Buhari, APC punishing Nigerians, says PDP
The Peoples Democratic Party on Thursday said President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive on food importation in the country was mean, was ill-timed and against the wellbeing of Nigerians.

It stated that the Buhari Presidency and the All Progressives Congress had demonstrated their alleged insensitivity towards millions of Nigerians who are already suffering acute hunger and starvation due to severe food shortage and high prices brought about by Buhari’s misrule.

The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement said the directive would worsen food scarcity and exacerbate the already harsh economic situation in the country.

He also said it would increase general depression, frustration, resentment and despair in the country under Buhari’s watch.

Ologbondiyan said, “The party says by the directive, the Buhari Presidency and the APC have again demonstrated their insensitivity towards millions of Nigerians who are already suffering acute hunger and starvation due to severe food shortage and high prices brought by President Buhari’s misrule.

“The PDP states strongly that Nigerians do not, in any way, deserve such suffering being foisted on them by such directive on food.

READ ALSO: Court sheriffs raid Bet9ja office over trademark infringement

“Such situation will only breed further despondency among our citizens, heighten our security challenges and put more pressure on compatriots, many of who, in the face of suffering occasioned by the APC misrule, are resorting to suicide and slavery mission as options. “He stated that instead of removing subsidy on food and putting more suffering on Nigerians, Buhari should cut the billions of naira being wasted on luxuries in his Presidency and free the funds for the welfare of the masses.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]