Abiodun launches Ogun job portal, employs 20 youths
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, on Thursday, launched an official job portal created for the unemployed people in the state and gave automatic employment to 20 residents of the state.

The 20 newly-employed civil servants, whose ages were between 25 to 35 years, were selected after emerging as top 20 winners in an ‘interview game’ played at the launch of the portal held at the Cultural Centre, Kuto, Abeokuta.

Abiodun, while confirming the employment of the lucky winners, said the appointment of the new civil servants showed the commitment of his administration to reduce the rate of unemployment in the state.

He added that the job portal was a product of his commitment to ensure a viable Public-Private Partnership that would bring about quality governance model.

He said, “This PPP model, no doubt, is an avenue to have an all-inclusive government that will utilise valuable potential that abounds in our dear state.

“In addition, towards ensuring that the citizens and residents of the state are not short-changed, we are preparing a Local Content Bill which will be sent to the Ogun State House of Assembly.

“When this bill is passed into law, it will make investors to first look inwards for availability of workers in Ogun State and make our youths their primary catchment area when they site their companies in Ogun State.”

Abiodun, who said he regarded himself as a businessman in politics as opposed to being in politics for money, said he was ready to personally mentor youths in Ogun State so that more successful businessmen like Aliko Dangote and Mike Adenuga could be created.

He added, “I have gone through the stages of conceptualising, operationalising and managing successfully business concerns, and I hope some of the issues on business start-ups are not alien to me.

READ ALSO: Woman arrested for locking orphan in dog cage

“When the potential is discovered, I am personally ready to mentor some of our youths who have the potential to become future Aliko Dangote and Mike Adenuga.

“I have gone into all these because as leaders of tomorrow we should not allow our youths to be used as malleable tools in the hands of unscrupulous politicians.”

In his remarks, the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, commended the Ogun State government for its approach to solving the unemployment problem.

Osinbajo said, “I am from this state and that is one of the reasons why I have to be passionate about this state.

“I have been working with the governor to see how we can do more empowerment and give more opportunities to young men and women in Ogun State.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]