Fraudulent Nigerians avoid travelling to US — CISLAC director
The Executive Director, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, Mr Musa Rafsanjani, speaks on the need to sanitise the electoral system and defend the fight against corruption, in this interview with MUDIAGA AFFE

The United States Department of State recently placed a visa ban on some unidentified Nigerians that were suspected to have subverted the 2019 general elections, how would you react to this?

|It is important to note that those who have committed electoral fraud, electoral violence and other forms of corrupt practices during the elections should begin to face some sanctions as a result of the actions they took to deprive Nigeria of having a truly democratic society and also deprive the country of having accountable leadership as well as denying the citizens of the utilisation of the resources that are meant to cater for the development of Nigeria in general. So, I think the Nigerian system is failing to respond to sanctions that are due to those that had perpetuated corruption, electoral fraud and impunity. Therefore, if we have any country that is willing to ensure that there is a level of sanity in the electoral system, we welcome it. I also think that the US government can help us, let us know who these individuals are so that we can shame them. We have observed lately that many Nigerians, who are classified as official looters, tend to avoid going to the US these days because they doubt the possibility of getting a visa. They have resorted to taking their children to the United Kingdom, Europe and Dubai. If the US government wants to help us with these issues, they can take a step further by networking with other countries to ensure that public officials in Nigeria that have been identified to be corrupt do not have free access to other Western countries to enjoy their loot. So, beyond just depriving them of going to the US, I am of the view that collaboration with other countries is imperative.

Why do you think the names of those that were allegedly banned from travelling to the US were not made public?

The truth is that making the names public will help serve as a deterrent to those who might still have such criminal tendencies in mind. This is so because if you do not publish their names, they will continue to do things the way they like. For that reason, we are calling on the US government to publish their names and work with other countries to ensure that some of the corrupt Nigerians and all those that are neck-deep into electoral fraud and violence should not enjoy going to those countries.

What if they chose to ignore the Western world and spend their looted money in other countries?

Some of them have already boycotted going to the US, they now go to other countries in Europe and Dubai. I think that is why there must be a concerted effort to ensure that they are confined to Nigeria.

But there is the belief in some quarters that the US also had its dose of electoral fraud during its last presidential elections. To what extent do you think they have dealt with their situation before extending it to other nations?

The truth is that in the US, there was neither violence nor alleged rigging as was the case in Nigeria. The citizens were not also denied the right of exercising their civic duties as was also the case in some parts of Nigeria. So, I do not think that their interference with our slow attitude to addressing electoral fraud is compared with their situation. They only want Nigerians to begin to have confidence in our electoral system and political integrity. The measurement we should be looking at is for us to have a system that is sound and one in which Nigerians should believe in. Ideally, we want our own system to pass the mark of integrity.

The present administration has taken the fight against corruption as one of its cardinal policies; do you think the anti-graft war is succeeding?

What is important is that the fight against corruption has come to stay and nobody can deprive Nigeria of raising issues around anti-corruption. If the present administration is not doing anything, Nigerians will continue to fight the battle, it is no longer that of the government in power. Corruption contributes to the bad state of the economy; the level of insecurity, and the poor means of livelihood, so, fighting it collectively is good for us because it is all about the survival of Nigeria as a nation. This pronouncement by government public officials is not tantamount to the real fight against corruption; it is the Nigerian people that must insist that enough is enough. There are, however, too many expectations from Nigerians in the fight against corruption, but I believe we are the ones to insist on the fight and any other government that will come afterwards will have no option but to continue in that direction.

Are there areas that you think we have not fared well in this anti-graft war?

There should be an accelerated public enlightenment campaign, highlighting the consequences of corruption and public education to prevent corruption- this is presently lacking in what the government is doing at the moment. The moment we (Nigerians) get to understand and know that it is due to corruption that we have this high level of unemployment, underdevelopment, poverty and unequal opportunities, I am sure the generality of Nigerians will fight to drive this agenda. Again, the absence of political integrity, as a result of not having a sound electoral system and political reform in the country, is affecting the fight against corruption. For us to successfully pursue the anti-graft war, we must embark on political reforms to restore confidence and integrity. Also, disregard for the Freedom of Information law is tantamount to undermining the fight against corruption, among others.

A new cabinet comprising 43 ministers will soon be inaugurated, what should be their focus?

We already have a lot of developmental deficit in Nigeria, so, it is expected that each minister should come with innovative ideas and suggestions that will improve governance in Nigeria. It should no longer be business as usual. Every minister saddled with the responsibility of leading a ministry should come up with such a framework that will make his impact felt by Nigerians.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]