Lagos APC to consult Sanwo-Olu over vacant EXCO seats
Mudiaga Affe

The chairman of the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, Alhaji Tunde Balogun, on Saturday disclosed that the party would consult Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the party’s Governors’ Advisory Council to fill the vacant executive seats.

The seats became vacant following the confirmation of the erstwhile party Secretary, Dr Wale Ahmed; Assistant Legal Adviser, Mr Toke Benson-Awoyinka; and Publicity Secretary, Mr Joe Igbokwe, as commissioner designates in the state.

Balogun, in an interview with journalists at the party secretariat, revealed that he received about 600 curriculum vitae, especially members of the APC, who wanted to serve in the present administration, but noted that only 45 people will be part of the state cabinet.

He said, “Adjustments or appointment of new officers will be made to fill the vacancies in the state executive committee of the party. The decision will be made by the party leadership after consultations with Governor Sanwo-Olu and the Governor’s Advisory Council, which is the apex leadership body in Lagos APC.”

READ ALSO: Ex-ICPC chair takes over Salaries and Wages Commission

Speaking on the selection of the list, Balogun said no fewer than 600 people applied to be commissioners and special advisers in Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration.

“I know they have been carefully selected. We have looked at people who will serve in Lagos State of 21st century and also people who have innovative thinking. People with good pedigree in terms of their educational qualification and what they have done in the past; their antecedents were also put into consideration.

“We really make painstaking efforts in bringing out the best among those who have applied. As the party chairman, I must have received over 600 CVs from people who were trying to be part of the executive council in Lagos State. And of course, only 45 people on the list will occupy that position. So, it is going to be something worthwhile and great honour and privilege for those have succeeded in getting there,” he added.

Governor Sanwo-Olu had last month released a list comprising 25 commissioners and special advisers’ nominees that had been screened by the state House of Assembly. The governor also released another list of 13 nominees on Tuesday.

Commenting on the list of the commissioners and special advisers’ nominees, Balogun, commended Governor Sanwo-Olu for picking three members of the Lagos APC executives, noting that the governor selected the best in his bid to foster good governance in the Centre of Excellence.

He also described Ahmed, Igbokwe and Benson-Awoyinfa as hardworking and committed party officers who have contributed to the growth and victories of the party, adding that their appointments will motivate other party officers, chieftains and leaders to work harder for the victory of the party in the future.