‘Alaibe, others plotting to cause mayhem over primary’
Simon Utebor

A group sympathetic to the Peoples Democratic Party, the Association of Concerned Bayelsa Professionals, has accused some aspirants of the PDP in Bayelsa State of planning to cause mayhem in the state ahead of the party’s primary on September 3.

The group, led by Chief Jasper Timiebi, in a statement on Thursday, alleged that a former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Chief Ndutimi Alaibe, and Dr. Chris Osaisai, among others, were fingered in the plot.

Timiebi claimed that Alaibe and others had devised a plot to cause premeditated violence and instability in the state with the intent to arm- twist national leadership of the PDP to move the primary to Abuja or the neighbouring Port Harcourt, Rivers State.

He claimed that the security intelligence at the group’s disposal revealed that the aspirants were bent on creating a non-existent threat of violence to actualise their plot to move the primary election outside Bayelsa contrary to the stipulations of the law.

He said the ACBP was concerned about the increasing desperation occasioned by blackmail and the evil plot to unleash mayhem and killings in Bayelsa just to achieve a satanic plot.

He stressed that the aspirants behind the plot against the state and its people were worried about the influence of Governor Seriake Dickson who had led the Restoration Team of the PDP for almost eight years since 2012.

Timiebi claimed that the campaign organisation of one of the contestants, Osaisai, wrote a petition dated August 10, 2019 to the National Chairman of the PDP in which he claimed that there were threats to the peaceful conduct of the governorship primary in the state.

According to him, the petition signed by Dr Ebieri Jones, is kicking against the inclusion of the elected chairmen and councillors as delegates in the primaries as provided for in the PDP constitution.

READ ALSO: Is Adeboye a pastor or activist-pastor? (2)

When contacted, a member of Alaibe Campaign team said it was the usual propaganda of the Seriake Dickson-led government to be “the aggressor, the perpetrator and the complainant” at the same time.

The member, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said “It is unfortunate and unthinkable that Dickson could condescend so low because of his personal interest to label great party members with unprintable names.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]