Group seeks action against violence in Bayelsa, Kogi
Friday Olokor, Abuja

An election monitoring group, YIAGA Africa, on Tuesday called on security agencies to tackle the impending threat to the governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states as pre-election observation had indicated early signals of violence.

The organisation also alleged recruitment of political thugs and stockpiling of weapons; violation of electoral laws and guidelines by the politicians.

It added that campaigns had been based on inducement and not on issues.

“Security agencies should investigate and manage the report of recruitment of thugs and stockpiling of arms, to avoid an outbreak of violence in the coming election.

“Security agencies should investigate and arrest people engaged in buying and selling of PVCs, and any form of voter inducement, to serve as a deterrent to others,” YIAGA Africa said.

The group’s Executive Director, Samson Itodo, stated this in a statement issued in Abuja after presenting its second pre-election observation report.

He said, “Other physical and verbal violence were reported from Southern Ijaw, Yenagoa, Brass, Nembe and Sagbama in Bayelsa State and Kabba/Bunu in Kogi State.

“Though the ammunition were discovered to have been stored prior to the 2019 general elections.

“Other reports of recruitment of political thugs were from communities in Yenagoa and Sagbama LGA in Bayelsa State and in Okehi and Idah in Kogi State.

“WTV findings reveal that buying and selling of Permanent Voter Cards still exist. WTV LTOs reported political parties moving from house to house in Ankpa LGA, Kogi State, documenting names and polling unit numbers and addresses of citizens with PVCs, while offering advance payments of N500 ahead of the election.

“In Bayelsa (Yenagoa LGA), findings also reveal that some citizens in Opolo and Gbarian areas are selling their PVCs for N500 and N1,000.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]