Isiaka, three ADC lawmakers meet Abiodun
Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta

The governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress in the 2019 election, Gboyega Isiaka, has said he and other members of the party, including three members of the state House of Assembly, may join the All Progressives Congress.

Isiaka had on Monday night with chieftains of the ADC, held a closed-door meeting with Governor Dapo Abiodun at the governor’s office in Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta.

Some of the political leaders that accompanied Isiaka to the meeting included Joju Fadairo, Nurudeen Olaleye, Dipo Sofowora, Kola Ogunleye, Razaq Oduntan, Chief (Mrs) Mary Ogunjobi, and the three ADC state legislators, Wahab Egungbohun, Adegoke Adeyanju, and Jemili Akingbade.

Speaking with reporters after the meeting, Isiaka hinted that he and his loyalists might soon announce their exit from the ADC to join the APC.

The governorship candidate said he had confidence that the present administration was taking the state to a higher pedestal, adding that, with what was on the ground, the administration was moving in the right direction.

Isiaka said, “We came to see our governor as a way of moving our relationship forward. We had interactions with our people all over the state and they mandated us to come and talk with our governor.

“So we need to go back to them and within the next couple of days, the full outcome of this meeting will be made known to the public.”

READ ALSO: Telecom firms get five days to stop illegal deductions

The governor at the meeting was said to have expressed satisfaction about working with Isiaka and his political structure.

Abiodun was quoted as saying, “I am very comfortable with this group. I want to work with you and I am reiterating my commitment to an inclusive government.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]