Makinde’s 14 commissioners get portfolios
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has assigned portfolios to the 14 commissioners inaugurated at the state secretariat at Agodi on Thursday.

The governor said the 14 commissioners were picked to help him to realise his campaign dream of rescuing Oyo State from its ‘despair status’.

Commending the commissioners for heeding his calls to serve the state, Makinde said, “With the formidable track record and CVs you all possess, I am happy that you are not working against me.

“Just as a CEO cannot function without a trusted and tested board of advisors that key into his visions, Oyo State cannot make the desired progress unless we work together.

“I have presented my vision for the people of Oyo State. As you take up this appointment, I believe you are keying into this vision. As I said in my inaugural speech, I will delegate effectively, but the buck will always stop with me. I hope that you will likewise take responsibility and not pass the buck.

“So, come with me, work with me, let us take Oyo State to greater glory. Together, we can do this.

“I have had one-on-one interactions with all the 14 of you. Your various endeavours hitherto have prepared you for this moment. You had successful and fulfilling individual careers in the private and public sectors.”

The governor announced Kehinde Ayoola as Commissioner for Environment; Nìyí Farinto as Commissioner for Budget and Planning; Bayo Lawal as Commissioner for Special Duties; Prof Shangodoyin as Commissioner for Education; Prof Oyelowo Oyewo as Attorney General and Commissioner for justice; Rahman Abdulraheem as Commissioner for Lands and Mrs Funmi Orisadeyi as Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy.

He put Temi Ashamu in charge of Energy; Muyiwa Ojekunle, Agriculture; Nìyí Adebisi, Commerce; Dr Wasiu Olatubosun, Information; Mr Akinola Ojo, Finance; Dr MVA Bello, Health; and Sunkanmi Olaleye, Establishment and Training.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]