Emulate Oyo gov, Okorocha tells Ihedioha
Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri

The immediate past governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha on Thursday told his successor, Emeka Ihedioha, to emulate his Oyo State counterpart, Seyi Makinde.

Okorocha, in a statement by his media aide, Sam Onwuemeodo, said Makinde, despite taking over from the All Progressives Congress, promised that he would not cancel good policies undertaken by his predecessor.

Okorocha insisted that Ihedioha had a vendetta against him.

He said, “On Wednesday, August 14, 2019, Governor Emeka Ihedioha announced the constitution of a seven-man Judicial Commission of Inquiry on land allocations from June 2006 to May 2019.

“Looking at the members of the panel, who are all card-carrying members of the Peoples Democratic Party, and their terms of reference, one would have no other option but to conclude that the governor, as usual, has his target or mission, which is to continue his vendetta against the past APC government in the state and the man who headed it, Senator Rochas Okorocha.”

He added, “For instance, the Prof Jude Njoku’s education committee took no other action but to take over the PPP-oriented Eastern Palm University and also scrapped the six new universities, four new polytechnics and three new colleges of education built by Okorocha.

“The panel on infrastructure made no other recommendation but to give the governor the licence to demolish some of the prime projects of the former governor like the flyovers, tunnels, waterfalls and so on, to the extent that his men were captured at night on camera tampering with the tunnels just to invent excuses to damage such lofty projects built with Imo people’s money.”

Okorocha also accused the governor of taking over all the establishments handed over to private investors for efficiency and productivity following the “ill-fated recommendations by all these one-way-traffic committees and panels.”

He added, “Governor Ihedioha has taken the state backward instead of moving it forward by taking actions that are obviously counter-productive both in contents and in implementations. In all these belligerent actions, he has never considered their attendant implications but only keen on using them to get at his predecessor and party.

“We would only ask Governor Ihedioha to borrow a leaf from his fellow PDP governor that also succeeded an APC governor in Oyo State, Chief Seyi Makinde, who said he wouldn’t ‘cancel APC administration’s good policies.’ That is how a governor who means well should reason or act.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]