Kogi civil service reform has failed –PDP
Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja

The Peoples Democratic Party in Kogi State has advised Governor Yahaya Bello to stop his alleged politics of deceit by accepting that his civil service reform is a failure that has brought workers in the state untold hardship.

The PDP spokesman in the state, Bode Ogunmola, in a statement reacting to Bello’s Sallah message in which he claimed to have cleared the backlog of salaries, said the governor was economical with the truth and insisted that the average worker in the state was still being owed two months’ salary.

The party stated that arrears for September to December 2018 were still outstanding for all categories of workers, adding that many cleared workers were still being owed arrears ranging from three to 30 months.

Ogunmola advised the governor to stop his “politics of self-delusion and be honest enough to confess the truth.”

The statement read, “One would expect that rather than continue to deny owing workers even after receiving so much from the Federal Government, Governor Bello would be remorseful enough to accept and apologise to workers that he has brought so much hardship on them.

“His continuous denial only confirms that it was a deliberate design to pauperise Kogi workers and should he return, Kogi workers should be ready for more difficult time.”

The PDP queried the continuous non-utilisation of monthly allocation for payment of salaries to both state and local government workers, alleging that the last allocation to the state had “grown wings and disappeared into private pockets” because of the final tranche of bailout.

READ ALSO: Out-of-season political competition for 2023 elections

“At the appropriate time, the PDP will raise questions but we are more worried that the state assembly has remained silent in the face of this crass misgovernment; instead, it is chasing the deputy governor who has raised vital issues that demand that the governor be invited,” the party said.

Ogunmola advised the governor to stop chasing shadows and be alive to his responsibilities to the state and its people.

The Director General, Media and Publicity for the governor, Kingsley Fanwo, said, “The workers have received their salary arrears, including the ones owed while they (PDP) were in power. That is the most important thing.

“We are not prepared to join issues with them. They can continue to raise their allegations while the civil servants laugh all the way to the bank.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]