Emulate Oyo gov, Okorocha tells Ihedioha
Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri

The immediate past governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha on Thursday told his successor, Emeka Ihedioha, to emulate his Oyo State counterpart, Seyi Makinde.

Okorocha in a statement issued by his media aide, Sam Onwuemeodo, in Owerri, said that Makinde despite taking over from an All Progressives Congress governor said that he won’t cancel the good policies of his successor’s administration.

He insisted that the governor was on a vendetta mission against him.

Okorocha said, “On Wednesday, August 14, 2019 Governor Emeka Ihedioha announced the Constitution of a 7-man Judicial Commission of Inquiry on lands’ allocations from June 2006 to May 2019.

READ ALSO: Ihedioha appoints Kanu Nwankwo as aide on sports

“Looking at the members of the panel, who are all card-carrying members of the PDP and their terms of reference, one would have no other option than to conclude that the governor as usual, has his target or mission, which is to continue his vendetta against the past APC government in the State and the man who headed it, Senator Rochas Okorocha.

“Governor Ihedioha has set up more than fourteen Committees and Panels since he became governor and each of the Committees or Panels has one or two specific assignments to carry out and all against the APC government which Senator Okorocha had led.

For instance, the Prof. Jude Njoku’s education committee took no other action than to take over the PPP-oriented Eastern Palm University and also scrapped the six new Universities, four new Polytechnics and three new Colleges of Education built by Okorocha.

“We would only ask Governor Ihedioha to borrow a leaf from his fellow PDP governor, who also succeeded an APC governor in Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, who said that he wouldn’t “Cancel APC Administration’s good policies”.

“That is how a governor who means well should reason or act, because at the end of the day, the overall interest of the State and her people should remain the ultimate goal.”