Bayelsa, Kogi PDP gov aspirants plan consensus candidates
Success Nwogu, Abuja

Governorship aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party for the November 16 governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states have commenced talks for possible emergence of consensus candidates in the states before the party’s primaries scheduled for September 3, The PUNCH has learnt.

No fewer than 21 male and female aspirants from Bayelsa State and 12 male and female aspirants from Kogi State bought the expression of interest and governorship nomination forms.

The Kogi State aspirants include a former Kogi State Governor, Captain Idris Wada (retd.); Dr Joseph Ameh; Air Vice Marshal Salia Atawodi (retd.); the senator representing Kogi West, Dino Melaye; Abubakar Suleiman; Grace Adejo; and Mr Abubakar Ibrahim.

Others are Bayo Averehi, Mohammed Shaibu, Dr Victor Adoji, and Bayo Agberedi.

The aspirants from Bayelsa State include the incumbent deputy governor of the state, Rear Admiral John Jonah; a former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Timi Alaibe; a member representing Sagbama/Ekeremor Federal Constituency, Frederick Agbedi; the senator representing Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, Douye Diri; Mr Tobin Igiri; Mr Anthony George-Ikoli (SAN) and Teriale Oliver, among others.

The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, in an interview with our correspondent, confirmed that the aspirants had been holding meetings to see the possibility of having consensus candidates in the two states.

He said, “The aspirants are talking among themselves for concession. Meetings are being held at various levels to agree on the possibility of having consensus candidates. As far as the party is concerned, we are set for the primary election.

“So, those who have filled and submitted the forms will appear on the day of (primary) elections, (and) will participate in the elections.

“If there is agreement among the aspirants for consensus candidate, it is welcome. If the aspirants and the party can achieve that, it is welcome. And if it is a contest, it is welcome. Our party provides for that. So, either way, the party is ready.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]