Ondo election 2020: God asks me to contest, says Jegede
Peter Dada, Akure

The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the last governorship election in Ondo State, Mr. Eyitayo Jegede has declared his intention to contest the state governorship election again in 2020.

Jegede, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, lost to the incumbent governor, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, of the All Progressives Congress in the November 20, 2016 governorship election.

Speaking at a meeting with the party leaders at the Akure South Local Government, which held at the PDP secretariat, Akure, the state capital on Tuesday, Jegede said he had consulted God and He had given him the go-ahead to contest the next election.

He said, “I am here to thank you for the support you gave me during the 2016 governorship election. I see myself as somebody who is ready to serve. I contested the last election and we knew the result, the following day we went to church to thank God for how far He had helped us. Now, I consulted God Almighty again, I asked if I should go forward on this project, He answered me that I should go ahead.

“I am asking you whether to go ahead or not? This is not the time for the campaign. We will surely come back when the time comes. I seek your support for our great party, the Peoples Democratic Party, and appreciate you for all your efforts both during the 2016 governorship election and the last general elections.”

He also solicited the support of the party leaders in his fresh attempt to contest the governorship position, come 2020.

READ ALSO: Abiodun pledges instant jobs for applicants of Ogun job portal

In his remarks, one of the party leaders and former Chief of Staff to former Governor Olusegun Mimiko, Dr. Kola Ademujimi, said people of the state were tired of the present administration.

He also noted that things were not the same again since the exit of the PDP-led government in the state. He urged members to remain loyal to the party and work tirelessly ahead of the coming election.