Obaseki is my brother, we’re not fighting – Oshiomhole
Sola Shittu, Benin

The National Chairman of All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, has blamed the media for creating friction between him and Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State.

Arising from a meeting with Obaseki at Oshiomhole’s Iyamoh residence in the Estako West Local Government Area of the state, which lasted late into Monday night, Oshiomhole said the rift between him and the governor was the creation of people with personal interests, while he described Obaseki as his brother.

Speaking to journalists after the closed-door meeting, which lasted for about an hour, Oshiomhole said the meeting was not unusual as he was in constant touch with Obaseki.

The APC chairman said, “It is not an unusual visit; the meeting afforded me the opportunity to meet with my brother and with people I have worked with.”

Obaseki also noted that the visit was to celebrate the Islamic holiday with his former boss.

“There is nothing unusual about this meeting; we decided to come here to celebrate Sallah with my predecessor,” the governor said.

He added that people who thought there was a rift between him and his predecessor should “stop thinking.”

Meanwhile, the APC in the Owan West Local Government Area of Edo State on Monday insisted that Mike Ezomo had not abandoned his fight to ensure that Obaseki obeyed the National Assembly’s instruction to issue a fresh proclamation for the inauguration of the House of Assembly.

Ezomo, who was not part of the inauguration, will represent Owan West in the Assembly.

At an emergency meeting of the party in Sabongida Ora on Monday, the APC leaders and ward chairmen in Owan West LGA passed a vote of confidence in Ezomo.

Speaking on behalf of the leaders, Epkenga Lewis told Obaseki to obey the National Assembly’s directives to issue a fresh proclamation for the inauguration of the Assembly.

READ ALSO: Ogun family accuses pastor of hypnotising, killing son

Lewis said, “We cannot be part of any illegality as witnessed by the midnight inauguration by the state government.”

Also, the Edo Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited will soon commence operation before the end of the year.

Obaseki’s Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, in a statement, said the fabrication of a 6,000-barrel-per-day modular refinery had been completed and would be inspected by officials of the Department of Petroleum Resources before it would be shipped to Nigeria.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]