Server: INEC yet to decide on Bayelsa/Kogi polls
Friday Olokor, Abuja

The Independent National Electoral Commission has not taken any decision on whether to experiment the electronic transmission of results in the forthcoming governorship election in Bayelsa and Kogi states scheduled for November, 16.

The commission, however, said it would meet in due course on the issue, taking into consideration laws and regulations guiding the conduct of elections in Nigeria.

The Director of Voter Education and Publicity in INEC, Oluwole Osaze-Uzzi, spoke in an interview with our correspondent on Monday.

He said, “No decision (has been taken) in that regard by the commission. I believe it (INEC leadership) will meet in due course to consider it (experimentation about the electronic transmission of results).

“It (the commission) will take into consideration all necessary factors, including the law and regulations governing the elections, as well as logistics, technical and financial considerations.

Our correspondent had reported on July 4 that the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmoud Yakubu, avoided questions from journalists on the controversy surrounding the use of a server in the 2019 general elections, when he said, “we simply cannot comment on a live matter in court.”

Yakubu had avoided the questions during a meeting with media practitioners in Abuja to review the 2019 general elections.

He was asked to explain the contradictions between the statements made by him and other Resident Electoral Commissioners of INEC before the election.

READ ALSO: FG blames Labour for minimum wage payment delay

According to him, there was nothing the commission could do about the enquiries and controversy about the server issue.

Yakubu had said, “Under our jurisprudence, you can’t comment on a matter in court. You have quoted copiously from statements made by officials of the commission in the context of hope that we were going to do certain things.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]