Group demands Abiodun’s probe for alleged forged certificate
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

The Ogun State chapter of the Assembly of Patriots International has asked the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to investigate the educational qualifications of Governor Dapo Abiodun.

The Secretary of API, Olasukanmi Oyekale, stated this in a petition to the IG, a copy of which was obtained by our correspondent in Abeokuta on Monday.

The petition, dated August 7, alleged that Abiodun made a false declaration under oath when he contested the senatorial seat in 2015 and during the 2019 governorship election in his form, CFOO1.

It claimed that the All Progressives Congress and Abiodun allegedly conspired to engage in what it described as a ‘nefarious act’.

The group further claimed that the governor allegedly committed offences relating to perjury and that, “he intentionally provided false information with the aim of misleading the Independent National Electoral Commission.”

It added that Abiodun allegedly did not obtain any educational qualifications from any higher institution.

The petition further read, “Although we are aware that an executive governor cannot be prosecuted while in office, the Supreme Court has clearly ruled that a governor can be investigated and if found culpable, should be prosecuted upon exit from office.

“As clearly shown on the face value of the attached forms CF001 that Governor Dapo Abiodun filled and signed on oath in 2015 and 2019, he clearly committed an offence by knowingly providing false information.

“The said information was provided with a view to misleading the electoral umpire and benefit from same by criminally claiming to have attended and obtaining non-existing educational qualifications.

“We, therefore, implore you to use your good offices as the Inspector-General of Police to investigate thoroughly the possible involvement and collusion of the All Progressives Congress which screened and certified the credentials submitted to it by Governor Dapo Abiodun for its roles in this nefarious act.”

Attempts to get the reaction of the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Kunle Somorin, failed as he did not answer several calls made to his phone.

He had also yet to reply to the text message sent to him as of the time of filing this report.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]