Obaseki pays surprise visit to Oshiomhole in Edo
Oladimeji Ramon

The Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, on Monday paid a surprise visit to his predecessor and National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole.

Obaseki, according to a statement, went to greet Oshiomhole, who was at his Iyamho country home in the state with his mother, Hajia Aishetu Oshiomhole, for Eid-el-Kabir.

The Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communications, Crusoe Osagie, was quoted in the statement as saying that the visit had punctured the claims that Obaseki and Oshiomhole were quarrelling.

He said, “The notion that these two men are adversaries is being propagated by people seeking to profit from the challenges they have been working so hard to foment. You cannot blame such people really. Their talents and abilities are severely limited, so it is in their collective interest to create tension and drive division, but I can tell you that they have already failed.

“It is not in their interest for Edo State to progress, so they will try to twist the purpose of this visit. This is what they’ve always done and it’s their stock-in-trade.”

Osagie said Obaseki had promised not to share public funds among powerful politicians but would spend same on the projects that would benefit the masses.

According to the statement, when asked whether Obaseki’s visit to Oshiomhole meant that the governor would yield to the National Assembly’s instructions to issue a fresh proclamation for the inauguration of the state House of Assembly, Osagie said he would not comment on the matter as it was already in court.

He said, “I cannot speak on this matter as it is sub judice. But I think the whole world knows that the Edo State House of Assembly has already been inaugurated. No person or group of persons or institution other than the judiciary can order a governor to do anything on a matter that is before courts of competent jurisdiction.

“We are a nation of laws and by the special grace of God, we will all be alive to witness the law run its full course.”

READ ALSO: Oyetola says only APC members ’ll make cabinet

Obaseki later said he had met with Oshiomhole and efforts were being made to resolve the issues between them.

The governor said this at the St. Paul Catholic Church, Benin, during a mass organised to mark the 80th birthday of John Odigie-Oyegun, former national chairman of the APC, on Monday.

He said “We have met – me and my predecessor in office – and fortunately, we do not have any fundamental issues. And because we do not have any fundamental issues, I believe that whatever third parties are trying to propagate I am sure we can talk over it. I assure you that very soon things will return to normalcy in Edo State.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]