ICYMI: Sowore was reckless with his words about revolution – Okorie, UPP national chairman
National Chairman of the United Progressive Party, Chief Chekwas Okorie, talks about #RevolutionNow movement, the controversy surrounding plans to revisit the water resources bill, and Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky and his Islamic Movement in Nigeria, among other issues, in this interview with RAPHAEL EDE

What do you make of the Shiite saga; the Federal Government’s refusal to obey several court judgments that granted their leader Ibrahim El-Zakzaky bail, the recent proscription of Islamic Movement in Nigeria and the Kaduna court judgment that has granted him bail to travel abroad?

It is somewhat comforting now that the court in Kaduna has granted Ibrahim El-Zakzaky the leave to go for medical treatment and government has obeyed it; that is the comforting part. It is very discomforting for many of us when clear, unambiguous orders of the court are not obeyed. And government through its agencies, departments like the ministry of justice or the Department of State Services will try to justify not obeying the court orders with some of the reasons they have given. Personally, I find it quite embarrassing and discomforting. So, it is a good development that this order has come and it has been promptly obeyed. It would be better for our democracy and it will do the government a lot of good if from now going forward, court orders are obeyed. And when the government is not comfortable with such orders, the government has the right to appeal until it gets to the Supreme Court; that is why there is the separation of powers. If we do not observe the principle of separation of powers, then we might as well say bye-bye to democracy because the joy and beauty of democracy are in the separation of powers. In the case of the proscription of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, the members of IMN have rightly proceeded to court to challenge it and I will like to leave it at that.

What is your view about the ‘Revolution Now’ protest and the arrest and detention of the leader of the movement, Omoyele Sowore, by the Federal Government?

I think Sowore was reckless with his words; he did not stop at mentioning revolution. I remember that during the administration of President Goodluck Jonathan, there was a kind of seminar in Lagos where Professor Ben Nwabueze presented a paper, calling for a revolution and nobody protested. Those who misunderstood him were later educated on the fact that a revolution does not always mean violence. And then demonstrations have been taking place; the #BringBackOurGirls Movement led by Dr Oby Ezekwesili, has constantly demonstrated, especially in Abuja and they have not been branded as a terrorist group. They have not been proscribed and they come out always to demonstrate. There have been demonstrations everywhere in Nigeria, especially recently. People have had a cause to demonstrate but when you tag your demonstration with a certain threat, especially when it is coming from a leader of that group, you don’t expect any reasonable government to wait to know whether the gun you are pointing at it is loaded or empty. I didn’t hear him myself but the man has been confirmed to have said that after the ‘revolution now’ demonstration, the DSS will cease to exist and that the government of President Buhari will cease to exist. When you make statements like that, what are you saying? How would state security services cease to exist? Is it by merely demonstrating on the street or by some other action? How will elected government officials cease to exist? He brought that suspicion on himself. His statements were completely reckless; they are unacceptable and as far as I am concerned, the government has every right to take preemptive measures to make sure that those things don’t get out of hand. But having done that, establishing whether there is a prima facie case against him for those allegations is now left for the court to decide.

READ ALSO: I joined #RevolutionNow protest to change my poverty story –Ajayi, injured Lagos protester

Where things will make me feel uncomfortable is if the government resorts to self-help instead of waiting for the decision of the judiciary. Any group that has anything against the government regarding the matter should challenge it in court.

You are asking people to go to court but this government has a penchant for disobeying court orders. An example is the former National Security Adviser, Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd.), who has not been released despite a court order. How do you reconcile that?

That is a very sore point and that is why I alluded to that. It is a very sore point and nobody who is a lover of democracy and the rule of law will accept the explanation that the government has given as a reason for his (Dasuki’s) detention. The explanations that were presented by the former Minister of Justice give an inkling of why some of these persons are still being held. I think I am seeing signs, signs of a change of attitude and the two recent events point in that direction – the recent judgment was given in favour of El-Zakzaky to go for treatment abroad and the promptness with which the DSS approached the court to test the allegations against Sowore and his incarceration.

Looking at the level of insecurity in the country now, can you say there is adequate security for lives and property?

I don’t think it has gone to the point where we can say there is no security at all. There is insecurity, yes. Has it worsened? Yes, because it is now multi-dimensional? It used to be about militants in the Niger Delta area, kidnapping and banditry, but now it is about insurgency. The herdsmen have been classified by the international community as the fourth most deadly terrorist organisation and so on. All of them have contributed to worsening the level of insecurity in the country. Now, is there proper security architecture that will address this multi-dimensional security problem? I will say no. This is because right from the very beginning, even when I ran for Presidency in 2015 on the platform of the United Progressive Party, I made the issue of state police and community policing a cardinal point. And from that time till today, I have used every opportunity to speak on how state police and community policing will help curb insecurity at the rural level. Nigeria is too large for a single central police system. Benue State Government came up with the anti-open grazing law. It was resisted but they put their foot down and stood by it. The cattle rearers under Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria challenged it in court and lost. They are in the Court of Appeal now. Taraba State gave the same anti-open grazing law and it is taking place after the initial resistance. If there is any security problem in Taraba today, it is between the Jukun and Tiv and not attacks by herdsmen anymore. Anti-open grazing law has taken care of it in the states. Ekiti State has done the same thing. So it requires a political will and now the South-East governors have done what I thought they should have done long ago. They have agreed to have 100 persons per local government as forest guards. The heads of armed forces – Military, Navy and Airforce to me have reached the limit of whatever they can offer. They are showing helplessness whereas within the system they can bring up younger, more vibrant ones with fresh ideas. You can challenge them to bring up new ideas that will help, especially where they are fighting insurgency and the insurgents are having an upper hand. I think because of the present reality, the Federal Government has now agreed to provide licences to every state that can acquire drones. They had denied them licences earlier for fear of being used against it. Acquiring drones for aerial surveillance is a good thing because the type of drones we are talking about is not the small one used to capture pictures at events. They are the types that will require control rooms where messages will be sent every second.

Are you concerned about the Water Resources Bill that the Federal Government is pushing for at the National Assembly? Some people are saying it is like bringing the suspended RUGA programme in through the backdoor. What do you think about that?

The water resources bill is very controversial and I don’t think it will see the light of day. Somebody can bring it as an executive bill or even as a private member bill, but once the majority of the people reject it, it will not fly. The amendment of the constitution is not rested on the National Assembly alone. You need a minimum of 24 state Houses of Assembly to endorse it before that amendment can go through. There will also be a public hearing, and it has not also reached the stage where the public will tell the government how it will never work. So whether the National Assembly is a rubber stamp for the government or not, it doesn’t matter as this is beyond any rubber-stamp issue. We are talking about constitutional amendment. Don’t forget that there was a time a bill was sponsored by a senator from Niger State, on grazing routes. It became as controversial as this water resources bill and it didn’t see the light of day. In fact, by the time it got to the second reading, it died because nobody would be talking about grazing routes in this modern stage. Senator Oluremi Tinubu also came up with a bill about giving one per cent of our Gross Domestic Product to Lagos State alone. Of course, it didn’t see the light of day. So this is what is expected of this water resources bill because its content is very provocative and controversial. I don’t see how it will fly. Above all, the fact that states that don’t have enough land have said they are not going to offer land for RUGA, cattle colony or whatever name it is called, has also made the idea of acquiring our water resources for cattle grazing across the country unattractive.

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: My business, political success magical –Shina Peller

The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, recently talked about reviewing the Land Use Act. People are afraid that it is another way by which the Federal Government wants to get land in states for Fulani herdsmen or RUGA. What do you think about this?

The Senate President cannot single-handedly sponsor a constitutional amendment because the issue of land is a constitutional matter. The process of amending a constitution is beyond him as an individual. I won’t want people to get unnecessarily worked up or excited when such statements are made. He is still a politician so, he may be saying anything to excite his constituency or please the government but implementation is another issue. The issue of land is very emotive and amending the law to give or turn things around in Nigeria, to give the Federal Government power over land is not going to work. In short, that is an invitation to anarchy. He has said he is entitled to his views; the day the executive bill or his private member bill comes in that direction, then some of us will now address it.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]