#RevolutionNow protest puts government’s tolerance to test
In this piece, FEMI MAKINDE examines the possible effects of this week’s government clampdown on the #RevolutionNow protesters on the country’s image, among other issues

The ruling All Progressives Congress-led Federal Government headed by President Muhammadu Buhari, in the words and views of many activists, has again shown its intolerance to criticisms with the arrest of the Convener of #RevolutionNow movement, Omoyele Sowore, and the clampdown on protesters in some states across the country.

Sowore’s continued detention and the clampdown on defenceless protesters by security agent have come under heavy criticisms by some individuals and human rights groups, with many of them describing the development as a gradual descent to authoritarianism.

Already, many Nigerians had expressed displeasure over the manner Buhari was handling the insecurity crisis in the country.

Under Buhari, who promised change, the nation’s poverty grew worse to the extent that it now occupies the unenviable position of the world poverty headquarters.

The level of unemployment is appalling while workers have been reduced to beggars and job loss has become a daily occurrence.

These issues, coupled with the government’s penchant for disobeying court orders, have made many to conclude that the administration of the retired Army general has started competing ignobly with that of late General Sani Abacha’s in terms of human rights abuses.

To mobilise for the change he desires, Sowore and the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, who has been on the run, recently held a meeting in New York, United States, and the duo, according to reports, vowed to come together to end oppression in Nigeria.

The duo were said to have agreed that there was not much difference in what they were fighting for, arguing that most people that “find themselves in the contraption called Nigeria today wanted to be free.”

On August 1, Sowore tweeted after holding a meeting with the Nobel Laureate, Prof Wole Soyinka, that Soyinka “agrees that at this time Nigeria needs ‘National Indaba.’’

Sowore subsequently sent his “revolutionary greetings” to #RevolutionNow and promised that his “presence would be felt on August 5 in Lagos.”

One could safely assume that there was so much passion on social media for the planned protest and some, who are active on Twitter, even asked how to join the protest after Sowore’s tweet.

Some said revolution was the way to clean the mess, which the nation had already been turned to, with one saying, he feared no death.

While some security agents said Buhari and his aides had been planning to deal with Sowore since the meeting with Kanu, some were also of the view that the government feared the protest might escalate if it was allowed to start, as many Nigerians were angry about the insecurity in the country and the poor state of the economy.

To prevent the planned revolution protest from kicking off, operatives of Department of State Services had arrested Sowore a few days to the date and detained him. But while the operatives of the DSS went after Sowore to prevent the planned protest, a pro-Buhari group led by one Ogochukwu Ezeaku said his team would hold counter-protests all over the nation in support of the President.

The Pro-Buhari group had also staged a sustained protest against the Amnesty International at its Abuja office asking the international agency to leave Nigeria for criticising the administration of the President.

Soyinka, who likened Buhari’s administration to Abacha’s for arresting Sowore described the move as a travesty, arguing that the nation’s security agencies had learnt nothing even with the over 20 years of unbroken democracy in the country.

He said, “Nothing that he (Sowore) said to me in private engagement ever remotely approached intent to destabilise governance or bypass the normal democratic means of changing a government. I, therefore, find the reasons given by the Inspector-General of Police (Mohammed Adamu) for the arrest and detention of this young ex-presidential candidate totally contrived and untenable, unsupported by any shred of evidence. His arrest is a travesty and violation of the fundamental rights of citizens to congregate and make public their concerns.

“This is all so sadly déjà vu. How often must we go through this wearisome cycle? We underwent identical cynical contrivances under the late, unlamented Sani Abacha, when he sent storm-troopers to disrupt a planning session for a similar across-nation march at Tai Solarin School, Ikenne.”

Also speaking on the issue, a former first Vice President of Nigerian Bar Association, Justy Erhabor, told Saturday PUNCH that apart from lowering the country’s human rights records, the arrest of Sowore and the clampdown on the protesters by security forces could undermine the efforts of the government to drive foreign investment.

He said, “By arresting Sowore, the Federal Government has kept the #RevolutionNow on the front burner. The nation would have moved on and the demonstration would have naturally fizzled out. We must not create the impression that the only people the government respects, tolerates and listens to are dissidents that bear arms. That will be disastrous.

“Those who are disappointed with the state of the nation must be allowed to legitimately vent out their views and demands. We must not narrow down the options open to citizens to violence.

“I am not sure the government care so much about the image or foreign perceptions. Unfortunately, foreign perceptions matter a lot as far as investments and economic patronage are concerned.

“We just moved from the violent El- Zakzaky demonstrations to RevolutionNow and Sowore’s arrest and detention. It does create the impression, especially in the minds of foreigners, that there are crises in the country.”

Erhabor explained that the development could give an impression that the government and the security agencies were overwhelmed.

He noted that the situation was not helped by the slow pace of governance, the delayed inauguration of the federal cabinet and what he termed “the apparent lack of governmental activities,” adding that “we are already known for our police brutality in handling protesters.”

Also, the Executive Director, Nigerians for Good Governance, Wole Oladapo, said the clampdown on Sowore and those who assembled to protest was capable of further lowering the ranking of Nigeria’s human rights records among nations.

Citing Section 40 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, which provides that every Nigerian shall be entitled to assemble freely and associate with others as the basis for the assembling of the protesters at various locations all over the country, Oladapo described the clampdown on the demonstrators as a violation of their rights.

He said such response to peaceful protests by the security agents, backed by the Federal Government, would have a negative effect on the economy of the nation as foreign investors would conclude that the nation was not at peace.

Oladapo said, “The perception of the people is that Buhari is gradually becoming a tyrant, and that might not be the intention of the government but that is what the government is making the people see. Perception is stronger than even reality and if you look at things, there is no protest that has been allowed to hold. The BringBackOurGirl protests were stopped, Tuface’s planned protest was shot down some months ago, whereas protest is an inalienable right of the people.

“The implication is that our image as a nation will continue to go down and we will continue to paint the picture that is not good for us, and this will affect the way foreign investors see our nation. It also shows that we have not evolved from military mentality.”

A professor of Law at the University of Jos, Prof Nnamdi Aduba, in an interview with Saturday PUNCH, criticised the administration for resorting to the use of force against peaceful protesters.

Aduba said, “How can a popular government be panicky when somebody just mentioned the word revolution. Will anybody who wants the kind of revolution they are insinuating go out with placards? They just keep wasting the nation’s money because if the case is taken to court, there is no way it can be proven that Sowore can overwhelm the Federal Government. He does not have the capacity. He is being detained for expressing a contrary view.

“The word revolution must be taken in the context in which he said it. Revolution means change; he does not have any other meaning for saying he wants revolution now, meaning he wants change now.

“This same government promised change when Buhari was campaigning in 2015. There is freedom of expression in the land even if it is contrary to the government’s view. They can charge him for treason but before that can be done the person must have the capacity to overwhelm the government. Some are comparing this case to Chief Obafemi Awolowo’s case but in Awo’s case, some persons were sent for training. In this case, there is nothing like that.”

He said the government was insensitive, adding that it bore semblance with the case of El-Zakzaky.

Aduba added, Americans go to where Donald Trump goes to stage their protest but would he shoot them? No. It is their right to protest and people have the freedom to hold views contrary to government’s .

“Things are not working in Nigeria and you don’t want people to complain. It’s like beating a child and asking him or her not to cry. The government is insensitive but what he (Sowore) and others are complaining against is genuine.”

Also speaking on the issue, the National President, Committee for the Defence of Human Rights, Malachy Ugwummadu, while speaking with Saturday PUNCH, condemned the arrest of Sowore and the clampdown on the RevolutionNow protesters.

He said the nation’s drive for foreign investment would suffer with the way the government was showing disregard for human rights and the due process of law.

He said, “This misadventure will have a negative effect on foreign direct investment in the country. This is simply because a country that has no serious commitment to the principle of fair hearing and rule of law will suffer direct consequences of that on its economy and foreign investment.

“Investors are not just particular about the population or market size of the economy; far more than that is the rigorous process of the justice delivery system and the regard for the rule of law. Investors know that a country that does not recognise the rights of its citizens to freely assemble without any violence is not likely to accord foreigners such respect and their business interest when there is a dispute.”

The Programme Officer, YALI Network, Lagos, Nendirmwa Yakubu-Malafa, in an interview with our correspondent, said maladministration and corruption were responsible for most of the problems facing Nigerians, adding that people should no longer depend on the government for a solution to all their needs.

“The ongoing entrepreneurship revolution will enable Nigerian youths to achieve economic independence from the political class, and make them prolific job creators and positive contributors to the continent’s economy,” she added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]