No force on earth can stop citizens’ agitation –Olayinka, CDHR Nat’l Sec
National Secretary of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights, Olayinka Folarin, shares his experience during the #RevolutionNow protest held last Monday in Lagos State, in this interview with ALEXANDER OKERE

What inspired your group’s involvement in the #RevolutionNow protest?

CDHR is a pro-democracy organisation. It believes in good governance and in line with our ideologies, we are expected to collaborate with other organisations which have the intention of promoting our goals. It was in line with that that we decided to identify with the demands of the revolutionary protest. The demands are that there should be qualitative and affordable education and implementation of the N30,000 national minimum wage; we even stated that it should be a living wage and by 2021, there should be an upward review of such. If our politicians earn what they earn, then it will be unfair to keep widening the gap between the rich and the poor.

We also called for a holistic fight against corruption, rather than a one-sided thing or selective fight against corruption. There should be an end to insecurity; we have no other country to call our own. So, the Federal Government should end the incessant killing across the country – we have seen Boko Haram, we have seen banditry and it is now becoming the order of the day. Freedom of movement is no more there, freedom of association is becoming a thing of the past and we are saying that the Federal Government should double up efforts today.

Nigeria’s problems can basically be resolved by Nigerians. Our agitation that the country should be restructured holistically has now presented itself as a thing of necessity. It is through this that people can participate and decentralise the wealth distribution.

The Federal Government accused proponents of the protest of inciting the citizens against the government. What’s your response to that?

It is quite unfortunate that the Federal Government was not sincere by misinterpreting the intention of the protest. I would rather say that it should be seen as reawakening the consciousness of the people towards what they should demand from the government. Good governance is a fundamental human right of the citizens.

READ ALSO: 2019 APC primaries worst ever conducted in Nigeria –National vice chairman, Abdulkadir

But I understand the fact that the Federal Government is not comfortable with the term, revolution. In our view and in the context in which we embarked on that protest, it means a change in the status quo. We don’t have a capacity to force a regime change; we are a pro-democracy organisation which believes that a regime change can only come through the ballot. We don’t have any ammunition other than our voices and we don’t intend to incite the public against the government. Rather, we were trying to expose the government’s failure and the need for the government to sit tight in addressing the challenges.

This won’t be the first time the word, revolution, is being used. Maybe the government is after the messenger and neglecting the message.

Can you share your experience during the Monday protest?

Sincerely, it was a pathetic one. It was one of the experiences that made me realise that we still have a long way to go in our country. We were gathered in front of the National Stadium, Surulere, to exercise our fundamental rights before the agents of the Nigeria Police dehumanised and dealt with us in a manner that made us say that such behaviour was not expected under a democratic government. Some of my colleagues, including journalists, were arrested but I only managed to escape the brutalisation.

How many of your members were injured or arrested?

I am aware that, in Lagos, we had no fewer than 16 of our members injured. Nine members of a coalition group were arrested on that day; six of them were arraigned at the Magistrates’ Court in Ebute Metta and granted bail while three of them were released.

Are your members afraid that they could be arrested if they continue with the protest?

We can’t be afraid of being arrested. Our demands are manifestations of what is happening. This is our own democracy and we must contribute positively to its advancement. No force on earth can stop people’s agitation. We can only take time to re-strategise and re-approach the issues. We have no other country other than Nigeria and we owe ourselves the duty to advance it. It is better to die for something than to live for nothing.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]