I joined #RevolutionNow protest for the sake of humanity –Ajayi, injured Lagos protester
Ridwan Ajayi, a student of the Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, Lagos, was injured during the failed #RevolutionNow protest in Lagos and his pictures were circulated online. He tells GBENRO ADEOYE about the experience and why he was part of the movement

You posted pictures of yourself online after sustaining injury during the failed #RevolutionNow protest in Lagos, how did it happen?

We were at the National Stadium, Surulere and had not even started the march when the security agents started telling us that they had been told that there must not be any gathering. They said they would attack us violently. They said the mandate given to them was not to allow any gathering in Lagos. I was trying to call people when they started firing tear gas canisters at us. One of them hit me in the leg and I started bleeding. It hit my leg so badly. I was addressing a journalist when they started attacking us. They said they would not allow us to address reporters.

How many were you?

We were about 100 and when they started attacking us with tear gas canisters, many people started running away.

The police had said it considered #RevolutionNow protests as treasonable felony, why did you still go out?

When we said revolution, we didn’t mean we wanted a regime change. By revolution, we meant demand for good governance, payment of N30,000 national minimum wage to workers, and so many other things. If you see our list of demands, there is nowhere it is stated that we want to overthrow this government or send it packing. Even President Muhammadu Buhari demanded that we should learn from Egypt revolution in 2011, when he wasn’t in power yet. But today now, because someone tagged a protest as #RevolutionNow, they take it to mean it is a plan to overthrow the government. It is just the name used to tag the protest; it has nothing to do with overthrowing the government. Our demands are on the Internet.

So what happened after you sustained the injury?

Shortly after I was hit, I realised I was getting weak and could not stand again. I was taken away from the place to get treatment. And since then, I have been receiving series of phone calls from people who want to know my location. There were about 15 police cars and lorries and their men were heavily armed. Some of the guns we saw there could fire about 800 rounds in five minutes. Those were the kind of arms that were brought to attack unarmed protesters who had only placards with them. We only had our voices. They were Special Forces and not just any police unit. It was like a joint operation involving operatives from different police units. I have been to the hospital and I have been treated. This is the prize I had for asking for my rights.

READ ALSO: Despite pressure, PDP extends suspension of Elumelu, others

Some of us were arrested and taken to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department at Panti, Lagos. I was the only one that was injured. If not, I would have also have been picked up. It was shortly after they started attacking us that I got injured so I was taken away from there. It was very irresponsible of this government to have done what it did. Any group of people that criticises the government, it immediately names the group as terrorists. They did it to the Indigenous People of Biafra, the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, and now it is the turn of #RevolutionNow protesters. They arrested our people in other states too. It is as if we are back to the military era. In Nigeria today, you cannot protest, you cannot ask for your rights.

What do you do?

I was rusticated from the Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, Lagos. I challenged the school with a lawyer before a disciplinary panel that was set up. When they discovered that I came with a lawyer, they were scared. Till today, there is no report about my appearance before the panel. I was asked to finish and take my remaining exams. It was all because I led a peaceful protest in 2017 and since then, I have not received my certificate. And it happened during Buhari’s government. And it is like that in other schools too. It is just like how Femi Adeyeye was also rusticated by the University of Lagos.

So will you be willing to go out again?

The rights of Nigerians are being tampered with and we will never be happy with it. However, this will never discourage us, that is what they should know. You cannot intimidate somebody who is not afraid of anyone. They have been doing it to Shiites and those people are no longer afraid, they kept at it until they got another court judgment asking the Federal Government to release their leader, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, on bail. So also, we will continue to demand good governance in this country. Our security agents have turned themselves to animals, killing people. I was asking a policeman at the protest ground why he was doing what he was doing, as he was not even comfortable and living well. He said yes, he knew. So I said, ‘Why are you telling us not to gather here?’ He said that was the instruction given to them.

What are you fighting for?

We are demanding that the issues affecting students must be taken seriously. This is a democratically elected government; we are waiting to see the change. Our politicians are taking their children away from Nigerian schools and sending them abroad to study. Those were the things we were asking for – good governance. We are asking for adequate security and protection of lives. We have so many students who are being victimised in schools; that should stop. We have students who were rusticated for leading peaceful protests.

Do you regret participating in the protest considering that you sustained an injury?

How can I say I regretted it? Nobody forced me to go out. I went out on my own. We saw videos on the Internet of some pro-government people who went to Abuja; those were paid protesters. I was not being paid to protect so I don’t have any regrets. If I was paid to go out, I could say I shouldn’t have gone out. The victims of today were yesterday’s survivors; we don’t know who is next. I went to the protest ground because I don’t want to be a victim tomorrow. I have been a victim of victimisation in my school and I don’t want to be a victim again.

Some people say there is bad governance in this country because Nigerians are too docile, what is your view on that?

Like Fela Anikulapo Kuti said, Nigerians fear to die for freedom, they fear to fight for liberty, they fear to fight for justice, they fear to fight for happiness. They have every reason not to fight. With what happened today, some people would be afraid to go out to protest. All we wanted to do was march and address the press to say ‘Free Omoyele Sowore’. So I don’t blame anyone who doesn’t come out to protest. It has to come from within you. How many people are ready to die? Look at how they kill Shiites.

Why are you doing this?

I am doing it because I know where I’m coming from; I am doing it for humanity. I am doing it because I know what it feels like to be on the lower rung of the ladder. I have been a situation where I didn’t have anything to eat for days. I know what that feels like. If I was not educated, I might not be so conscious of what is going on and my parents already know my position, they understand that is who I am. They understand the love for humanity I have, so it is very different for them to convince me not to go out to join protests. I don’t want us to continue like this as country. I have been receiving strange calls since I left the hospital; people are trying to get my location.

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: ICPC recovers ambulances from ex-Edo Rep, private clinic

Are your parents not afraid for your life?

My mum is always panicking; I have a mother who loves me so much so I try to talk to her anytime I have to leave for a protest. Someone had called her from Abuja that they saw my pictures on twitter and that I was injured. When I told her I would go out again, she said I would only do that if I wanted her dead. But after I explained things to her, she understood. She then said I should heal first. I have suffered so much. I am from the lowest class of the society. She understands the situation. I was brought up from nothing and I’m still in this level of nothingness. I have two brothers who graduated with second-class upper degrees in 2017 from UNILAG and still have no good job. They are working in a private school that is paying them N28,000. Even if you are spending N1,000 to eat every day, you cannot be comfortable.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]