Aggrieved lawmakers halt protest as Senate reviews panels
Sunday Aborisade, Abuja

The crisis that rocked the Senate over the composition of the committees appeared to have been resolved as the aggrieved lawmakers have halted their protest.

Investigations by our correspondent revealed that the federal lawmakers backed down on their agitations following peace moves initiated by the body of principal officers in the upper chamber.

It was learnt that those who felt aggrieved by the outcome of the committee sharing arrangements were said to have been assured that the selection committee would soon review the panels’ composition.

One of aggrieved senators told our correspondent on condition of anonymity that he had handed over everything to God.

He said, “I know that I satisfied my conscience by working vigorously for the emergence of Senator Ahmad Lawan as Senate President and I am surprised that I could be treated that way.

“What pained me most was the fact that the position, which was initially given to me was changed at the last minute . However, our leaders have intervened.

“We have accepted it as God’s will. They have promised that the committees would be reviewed before we resume from recess.”

The senator said the leadership of the red chamber specifically assured him that the list was not the final one and that a review was imminent because of the obvious lopsidedness in the committee chairmanship composition.

The Chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Senator Adedayo Adeyeye, confirmed to our correspondent on Thursday that the Senate was now calm and there was no longer, any cause for alarm.

He said, “The Senate is now calm. What was reported as protests by some senators could be described as a storm in a tea cup . We are a united family and there is no problem at all.

“We are all united behind the Senate President. There is no way he (Lawan) would carry out such exercise and everybody would be satisfied. It is not possible.

“It is understandable that some people were not too pleased with what they got but we are all united now.

“By and large, the Senate President has been fair to all concerned including opposition members. He has succeeded in carrying everybody along.”

Asked if those that protested would get juicy panels after the review, Adeyeye said, “I don’t know anything about juicy and non – juicy committees.”

He said, What I know is that there are 69 standing committees of the Senate that have been constituted. In any case, juicy or non-juicy, I believe that it is a call to duty for Senators to serve their fatherland and to serve the nation merritorously .

“So, in whatever capacity anybody has been placed, he has been called upon to merely render service.

“If you believe that the committee that you have been placed will not give you enough responsibility to exert a lot of your energy as chairman, you also belong to other committees where you can still make your contributions.

READ ALSO: NYSC searches for missing corps member in Edo

“I would plead with those who may have one complaints or the other to sheath their swords. They should see their chairmanship or membership of the various commiittees as a call to service. They should let us continue to work in one accord, harmoniously.”

Adeyeye added that the leadership of the red chamber could review the standing committees as the need arises, from time to time.

He said, “These committees, as I have learnt, are also subject to review before the end of the four-year term.

“If you have 69 committees, there is no way, in which about seven people who want to be chairman of a particular committee could get it. Only one person would be appointed.

“Therefore, if you don’t have that opportunity now, please in whatever commiittee you have been placed as chairman, see it as a service to the nation so that the nation can benefit immensely from your experience and commitment.

“The Senate President has done everything possible to keep the Senate together. There won’t be any form of rancour either now or when we resume, on the issue.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]