Ihedioha destroying APC legacy in South-East, says Okorocha
Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri

The immediate past governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, on Wednesday said his successor, Emeka Ihedioha, was destroying projects executed by his administration in order to discredit his achievements and the All Progressives Congress legacy in the South-East.

He also said the Peoples Democratic Party administration in the state was fighting him because of the defeat that the party suffered through him in the 2011 and 2015 general elections, when he won the governorship election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress.

Okorocha, who is now representing Imo West Senatorial District in the National Assembly, made the claims in a statement issued in Owerri on Wednesday by his media aide, Sam Onwuemeodo.

He alleged that his successor wanted to destroy the APC in the South-East at all cost.

The senator said the PDP stalwarts in the state were still angry with him for making sure that former President Goodluck Jonathan’s voting strength in the South-East in the 2019 general elections was challenged.

The statement read in part, “The Governor Emeka Ihedioha-led PDP government in the state is simply fighting back because of the defeat they suffered in 2011 and 2015 in the hands of Senator Rochas Okorocha.

“They are also playing the politics of how to remain in power in the state having known that they didn’t win the 2019 governorship election because before now, nobody had become the governor of the state with bloated figures from only three out of the 27 local government areas in the state.

“For them too, having known that Imo remains the strongest hold of APC in the South-East, they now feel that once APC is destroyed in Imo, the party has been destroyed in the South-East. That is another major reason for the current hostility against Okorocha, his amazing achievements and APC members in Imo.”

The Senator also said his administration left N42.5bn in the state coffers, but alleging that Ihedioha had not fixed any bad road since he became governor.

READ ALSO: IG special squad hits South-West in two weeks

But Ihedioha, while reacting through his Special Adviser on media, Steve Osuji, said Okorocha’s allegations against him were baseless.

He said, “The Imo State Governor is more preoccupied with the challenges of rebuilding the state.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]