APC suspends Kogi deputy governor, Simon Achuba
Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja

The All Progressives Congress, Kogi State chapter, on Thursday affirmed the suspension of the Deputy Governor of the state, Simon Achuba, from the party for anti party activities.

The party based the suspension on the deputy governor’s alleged activities before, during and after the 2019 general elections, as well as some actions he took that constituted embarrassment to the APC in Kogi state.

The APC State Chairman, Abdullahi Bello, at a press conference in Lokoja on Thursday, said the party had received several petitions from stakeholders, alleging that Achuba had discretely and openly worked for the candidates of the opposition parties during the presidential, national and state assembly elections in the state.

The chairman noted that the report of the disciplinary committees constituted by his ward, Iyano Ward, and the Ibaji Local Government Area of the APC indicted the deputy governor and also recommended his suspension to be followed by expulsion if he did not show any remorse.

Bello stated that the State Working Committee of the APC deliberated on the recommendations of the disciplinary committee of the APC in Iyano Ward and the LGA and resolved to uphold Achuba’s suspension till he responded to the letter that the party would serve him.

“The All Progressives Congress does not condone acts of indiscipline, indiscretion and anti-party activities from any party member, no matter how highly placed.”

He added that the decision of the State Working Committee would be communicated to the APC National Working Committee.

However, the Chief Press Secretary to the embattled deputy governor, Sylvester Akor, said his principal would soon respond to the latest development.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]