APC undecided over mode of primary in Bayelsa
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja

The ongoing crisis among stakeholders in the Bayelsa State All Progressives Congress is causing delay in the mode of primary to adopt for the August 29 governorship primary.

Our correspondent gathered on Wednesday that the National Working Committee had yet to adopt any mode of primary for the state because the Bayelsa State chapter had yet to communicate with the national secretariat.

Recall that a meeting held sometime ago where direct primary was reportedly adopted as the mode of primary, which led to ripples among stalwarts of the party.

The meeting had in attendance a former Bayelsa governor, Timipre Sylva, and the immediate past Minister of State for Agriculture, Heineken Lokpobiri.

Our correspondent gathered that while those loyal to Sylva were behind the push for direct primary, the camp of Lokpobiri routed for indirect primary where only accredited delegates would vote in the primary.

But Sylva has been confirmed by the Senate as a minister-designate.

Lokpobiri, after picking his Expression of Interest and Nomination forms, had stated his preference for indirect primary, saying it would lead to a credible outcome accepted to all.

The NWC adopted indirect primary for Kogi State but remained silent on Bayelsa primaries are slated for August 29.

Speaking with our correspondent, the APC National Vice-Chairman (Sout-south), Hillard Eta, said, “We are still waiting for the state to formally write us after a stakeholders meeting, but it has not done that. So there is no decision for now.”

The APC National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu, said the matter for Bayelsa’s mode of primary had not come up for discussion at the NWC meeting.

Efforts to speak with the state APC chairman, Amos Labulana, proved abortive as calls placed to his phone indicated it was switched off.

The Independent National Electoral Commission fixed the governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa for November 16.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]