REC joins Bayelsa race, Ebebi leads Alaibe’s campaign
Ada Wodu and Daniels Igoni

The Resident Electoral Commissioner in charge of Cross River State, Dr Frankland Briyai, has resigned his appointment to enable him contest the governorship race in Bayelsa State.

He announced his resignation on Thursday at the headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission in Calabar just before a valedictory party organised in his honour.

Briyai told journalists that he had to resign to heed the call of the people of Bayelsa State, the youth groups in Niger Delta, the northern and eastern Nigeria, the Econlomic Community of West African States, the Africa and the Commonwealth to contest the November 16, 2019 governorship election.

He said, “I have critically considered their demand and dilemma. I have heard their call to selfless service that had always been my lifestyle.

“For the sake of the very important call to rescuing the kind, peace loving and great people of Bayelsa State, I have resigned my appointment as a Resident Electoral Commissioner in the Independent National Electoral Commission of the Federal Republic of Nigeria with effect from Thursday, the 8th of August, 2019.”

He said the successful conduct of elections in the state since he took over in 2017 as the REC, his integrity and hard work, which had made him won several awards, had confirmed what the people are saying.

On why he chose the All Progressives Congress to run as governor, he said, “As a progressive, I will identify with the very best of the progressive political parties – the All Progressives Congress.”

Briyai appealed to the people of Bayelsa State not sell their votes and urged the youths not to allow themselves to be used as political thugs during and after the governorship election.

The Chairman, Conference of Nigerian Political Parties in the state, Sunday Michael, said, “When Briyai was appointed the REC, he told us that he was going to work with stakeholders. This is the only REC that has carried every political party along from start to finish.”

“Meanwhile, a two-time deputy governor of Bayelsa State, Mr. Peremobowei Ebebi, has been announced as the Director-General of the campaign organisation of Timi Alaibe, who is contesting the forthcoming Governorship Election in the state, on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party.

A statement on Thursday by the Administrative Secretary of the Alaibe Campaign Organisation, Prof Seiyefa Brisibe, explained that Ebebi, who is also a two-time Speaker of the state House of Assembly, would lead the team and ensure that the aspirant emerged the candidate of the PDP at the party’s primary election on September 3.

About 1,400 delegates would elect the party’s governorship candidate for the election, slated to hold on November 16.

Brisibe stated that the appointment of Ebebi was a huge advantage to the campaign organisation of Alaibe, who is a former managing director of the Niger Delta Development Commission.

Other members of the campaign team are Senator Nimi Barigha-Amange, (coordinator for Bayelsa East Senatorial District); a former state PDP Chairman, Chief Rufus Abadi, (Bayelsa Central), and Kemi Prefa for Bayelsa West.

The statement also announced the appointment of the first female member of the state House of Assembly, Vivienne Ere, as the campaign’s Women Leader.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]