Akeredolu threatening my life, ex-Mimiko’s aide alleges
Sunday Aborisade and Peter Dada

The Commissioner for Special Duties, Culture and Tourism during the administration of governor Olusegun Mimiko in Ondo State, Chief Olufemi Adekanmbi, on Wednesday, alleged that Governor Rotimi Akeredolu was threatening his life.

Adekanmbi, who addressed journalists in Abuja, said the threat became serious when reports of his plan bid to challenge Akeredolu in the 2020 governorship election, dominated social media recently.

The ex-commissioner wondered why the Attorney – General of the state, Mr. Kola Olawoye SAN, was still prosecuting him when the case against him had been thrown out by the court.

But Akeredolu, in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant (Media and Publicity), Mr Ojo Oyewamide, accused Adekanmbi of seeking media attention through mischievous means.

Akeredolu said, “But for the deceptive and diversionary reason, mischief, as well as the motive behind the person in question, we would not have bothered granting any element of seriousness to an unstable character as such.

“A man with clean hands does not require extraneous things to seek attention. If it is attention he desires, this should be enough for people of his ilk. Adekanbi requires no more of response than the fact that the world should ignore him.”

Adekanmbi told journalists in Abuja that the governor allegedly started threatening his life after the conclusion of the last governorship election in Ondo State because Akeredolu felt he did not support him.

“As soon as the elections were over in November 2016, Mr Kola Olawoye submitted a petition against me alleging that I and some other politicians in Owo carried out the destruction of life and property.

“I was invited by the Ondo State Police Command and subsequently charged to court where I was discharged and acquitted, among others.

“I received lots of threat calls before and after the elections and even up till now, I still receive calls from people threatening to deal with me.

“The reason behind all these is because of the forthcoming governorship election in which they believe some powerful forces are behind my aspiration.

READ ALSO: Man, 60, nabbed for defiling seven-year-old girl

“Plans have been perfected to frame me up at all cost by dropping a dead body in my house at Owo and thereafter hold me responsible for the killing.

“Plans have also been perfected to plant incriminating objects like guns in my house to rope me as a gun-runner.

“ I was surprised to receive a letter from the Commissioner of Police in Ondo State inviting me for interrogation. On receiving the letter, I called the IPO to whom I was directed to report only to be told that it was the Attorney General of Ondo State that wrote a petition which they had earlier submitted to EFCC against me.

“I am now terrified and become afraid to the extent that I can no longer visit Owo in the last three months as I am afraid I may be kidnapped and killed and at the end, Fulani herdsmen would be

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]