Ex-minister asks NASS to divert N2.2bn Ruga funds to productive sector
Sunday Aborisade, Abuja

Former Minister of Housing and Urban Development, Nduese Essien, on Tuesday criticised the N2.2 bn already appropriated for the Rural Grazing Area scheme and called on the National Assembly to reject it and vire the Ruga money into other critical sectors of the economy.

He noted the Federal Government was funding cattle rearing when oil producing companies were terminating contracts with contractors who were in turn, laying off their staff in the Niger Delta over the non-implementation of the Joint Venture Cash Call.

He said, “Disappointingly, when appropriation is being made for cattle rearing and money promptly released, the joint cash calls to the petroleum industry are always suffering delayed payments.

“Currently, some petroleum industry operators have laid off some of their services contractors who have equally laid off their workers, thus compounding the unemployment situation.

“The National Assembly should as soon as possible, vire the provision for Ruga to other uses to clear itself of complicity in this scheme.

Essien, who is also a former member of the House of Representatives, lamented that the Federal Government was setting wrong priorities for itself with the poor implementation of the JVCC

READ ALSO: Judge withdraws from Suswan’s N3.1bn fraud case

He noted with concern that rather than appropriate funds for the JVCC in order to boost the petroleum industry, the government was making budgeting allocation for for cattle rearing.

He said the delay in the release of funds for Joint Venture Cash Calls to oil companies, had resulted in the termination of contracts with service operators.

He said the operators had in turn, laid off their workers, thereby compounding the unemployment situation.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]