Beg Nigerians, dump South-West, northern group tells Buhari
Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja

The Coalition of Northern Groups on Wednesday asked President Muhammadu Buhari to apologise to Nigerians for allegedly dragging the country to a desperate situation.

The group, in a statement by its spokesman, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, further urged the President to own up on his inadequacies and take steps to address national grievances.

It said although the North was aware of Buhari’s lapses, northerners decided not to take part in the #RevolutionNow protests because of their belief that disagreement could be resolved through engagement rather than confrontation.

The group also faulted the South-West, which it claimed had been a major beneficiary of the Buhari administration, for allegedly being in the forefront of efforts to discredit the administration.

It urged the North to severe political ties with the South-West.

It said, “We submit that instead of just sitting back to thank Nigerians for not joining the overthrow plan, President Buhari should rather sincerely apologise to the nation by reflecting on how he has dragged the country into such a desperate situation, own up to his inadequacies and take genuine steps to address the mounting national grievances.

“Unless this is done, with the growing angry mood that pervades the country, the likelihood of a more serious dissent remains imminent.

“We also wish to ask the President if in all honesty he still considers the south-western players as true friends who are genuinely desirous of his success.

“…To the entire northern leaders and elite, we categorically say that the current political alignment with the South-West is not paying and it never will.

“The vital task at this point is for the northern political leadership to renegotiate its current alliance with the South-West which has never been North’s political ally

“The alliance is already turning out to be unhealthy. We are calling on the northern elders and leaders to review the region’s position by realigning with our traditional political friends which had served the whole nation for decades before the coming of this unholy and unprofitable union with the south-western bloc.”

READ ALSO: The revolution did not fail

It added, “This has become necessary with the way the South-West is going about the current friendship by being more openly antagonistic to northern interests even while they are the major beneficiaries of the Buhari administration.

“They, at the slightest of pretences, openly denigrate the North, its people, its leadership and culture which must not be allowed to continue.

“The CNG therefore calls on the current leadership of the Northern Elders Forum under Prof. Ango Abdullahi to mobilise relevant stakeholders towards bringing an end to the political partnership with the South-West and embracing the North’s initial political allies.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]