HDP presidential candidate sues EFCC for declaring him wanted
Ade Adesomoju, Abuja

The presidential candidate of the Hope Democratic Party in the 2019 election, Ambrose Owuru, has sued the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for declaring him wanted over an alleged land scam.

Justice Taiwo Taiwo of the Federal High Court in Abuja on Wednesday declined to grant an ex parte application by Owuru’s lawyer, Mr. Eze Nnayenlugo, seeking an interlocutory injunction restraining the commission from making such publications declaring him wanted pending the hearing of the main suit.

Applying for the order, Nnayenlugo said, “The applicant is a presidential candidate for in the 2019 election. That is our worry. We need this court to come to our aid”.

READ ALSO: FG, LGAs renew marriage registration battle

When asked the basis for the suit, the lawyer said, his client “was declared wanted based on a land transaction in Rivers State”.

He explained that case which led to the EFCC’s publication declaring the presidential candidate wanted “has been withdrawn” from court.

“All these have been exhibited before the court,” he added.

Asked by the judge if he was aware that the EFCC had filed a counter-affidavit and a notice of preliminary objection, the lawyer said “no”.

The judge advised the lawyer to obtain copies of the court processes and file his response to them.

He said in view of the processes, particularly the notice of preliminary objection, filed by the commission to challenge the competence of the suit, the court would have to hear the anti-graft agency’s objection first.

The EFCC was not represented by a lawyer at the proceedings.

The judge adjourned hearing till August 22 for hearing.

Earlier, the plaintiff’s lawyer applied that the names of six individuals joined in the suit as respondents be struck out. The application was granted.

Owuru and his party, HDP, are the petitioners who filed one of the two petitions pending before the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal challenging the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari at the February 23, 2019 election.

The other petition was filed by the Peoples Democratic Party and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar.