Buhari addresses APC NWC Wednesday
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja

President Muhammadu Buhari is billed to address the National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress on Wednesday.

The meeting will be the first official meeting between him and the NWC after the 2019 general elections.

Our correspondent learnt that the meeting earlier planned for the APC National Secretariat in Abuja to address issues concerning the party’s performance in the elections could be moved to Aso Rock Villa.

The meeting, which will be presided over by the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, is also expected to review the lingering crisis in the party and possible solutions to douse tension.

The NWC had already placed the National Vice-Chairman of the party, Inuwa Abdul-Kadir, on suspension and recommended that to the National Executive Committee for ratification.

Abdul-Kadiri has since sued the party for alleged infringement of his rights and privileges.

A member of the NWC, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “The meeting is the first after the general elections and we will discuss a lot of issues affecting the party. This is a meeting that holds once in a while and we cannot let this opportunity slip by.”

The PUNCH also learnt that Buhari would be briefed on the reports of the Committee on Anti-party chaired by the Deputy National Chairman (South), Otunba Niyi Adebayo. Adebayo is one of the 43 ministers designate.

The committee was raised to probe party members accused of anti-party activities during the general elections.

The source said, “The meeting is not unusual as it had taken place at the Villa in the past. It is because we scheduled it for the national secretariat that it is now generating attention.”

When asked if members of the National Executive Committee would be in attendance, the source replied, “No, it is a meeting with the 20 members of the NWC, nothing more.”

READ ALSO: Bauchi varsity students reportedly killed as bridge collapses

The PUNCH reports that there are 21 members of the APC NWC but the position of the National Secretary became vacant after Mai Mala Buni left.

The NWC appointed the Deputy National Secretary, Victor Giadom, in an acting capacity.

“Issues concerning the position of the National Secretary may also come up for deliberation. There is a need to have a substantive National Secretary,” the source added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]