Bayelsa APC lacks presence to beat PDP —Jonathan
Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa

Former President Goodluck Jonathan on Tuesday described the opposition All Progressives Congress in Bayelsa State as a party that lacked political presence at the ward, local government and state levels to win the state governorship election slated for November 16.

Jonathan, who stated this during the PDP Elders’ Advisory Council meeting at Government House, Yenagoa, noted that the large number of governorship aspirants on the platform of the party indicated the dominance of the party as the preferred platform for election.

He said the PDP had all it took to record a landslide victory in the forthcoming election.

The former president commended Governor Seriake Dickson; the state Chairman of the PDP, Mr. Moses Cleopas; and all critical stakeholders, including the 21 aspirants for working for the continued stability of the party.

He stated that it was important for the PDP to get its acts together so that it would not create room for opportunistic platforms to steal the party’s victory.

Jonathan, who urged the party’s governorship aspirants and all political leaders not to engage in mudslinging, said, “We must free the space and eschew rancour because finally, one person will become the candidate of the party and for that one person to win the election, all aspirants must work for that person.

“It is only our unity that can give us victory and if we are not united, they (APC) can get away with it. For example, it took the unity of the people of Rivers State, including women who were resolute against soldiers, to get the PDP victory in the state. If that had not happened, they (opposition) would have taken it.

“For us to secure this state for PDP, we need maximum unity and that is why all the 21 aspirants are important to us; we must have that maximum unity and must not create any form of division or discrimination. At the end of the day, one person will emerge and all of us will work for whoever emerges as candidate of the party.”

Dickson, in his remarks, stressed the need for members of the party to forge a united front to maintain its dominance and control of power in the state, starting with the local council elections billed for August 10.

The governor called on members of the party, particularly the governorship aspirants, to work hard for the victory of the chairmanship and councillorship candidates of the PDP in the Saturday’s election.

Dickson called on the national leadership of the party to complement the effort of the state in providing a level playing ground for all the aspirants.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]