Save Edo from crisis, group tells National Assembly
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja

The Joint Action for the Advancement of Democracy in Edo State has urged the National Assembly to insist that Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State issue a fresh proclamation for the inauguration of the state House of Assembly.

The appeal came following the expiration of the one-week ultimatum issued to the governor to do so.

The Senate had last Tuesday directed Obaseki to issue a fresh proclamation within one week or the National Assembly would invoke its powers as contained in the constitution by taking over legislative functions of the state assembly.

The development followed the adoption of the report of the Senate ad hoc committee on the state assembly crisis, presented by its chairman, Senator Sabi Abdullahi.

The JAADE leader in the country, Aiyamenkhue Edokpolo, in a statement made available to journalists, said the support by some elders and statesmen for the minority rule in the assembly was not unexpected.

“Either they see a long-term milking of Edo State treasury through their patron clienteles in the government house or they misinterpret the crass exclusion of majority of members-elect from the premeditated ungodly June 17 midnight ‘initiation’ inside the hallowed chambers of the Edo State House of Assembly as a fight against political godfatherism.

“Either way, their intentions are suspect, mischievous, vitriolic, pernicious, rancorous, and nasty, and therefore condemnable,” the group said.

The group thanked the National Assembly, Senate President Ahmad Lawan, and Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, for responding to the “yearnings of democratic voices in line with the spirit of sections 91 and 96 of Nigeria’s constitution as amended which instructively defined a House of Assembly.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]