Isiaka, three ADC lawmakers set to join APC
…hold closed-door meeting with Gov Abiodun

Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta

The governorship candidate of African Democratic Congress in the 2019 election, Gboyega Isiaka and three lawmakers on the platform of the party are set to join the All Progressives Congress.

Isiaka said this on Monday after a closed-door meeting with Governor Dapo Abiodun at the Governor’s Office, Oke Mosan, Abeokuta.

The meeting came barely three weeks after both Isiaka and Abiodun held a secret meeting over the rumoured plan to join APC.

Some of the political leaders that accompanied Isiaka to the meeting include Joju Fadairo, Nurudeen Olaleye, Dipo Sofowora, Kola Ogunleye, Razaq Oduntan, Mrs Mary Ogunjobi and the three ADC state legislators, Wahab Egungbohun; Adegoke Adeyanju and Jemili Akingbade.

Isiaka said, “We came to see our Governor as a way of moving our relationship forward. We had interactions with our people all over the State and they mandated us to come and talk with our Governor.

READ ALSO: Take over NDDC affairs immediately, Lawan tells new board

“All the areas that needed clarification, we have got them. So, we need to go back to them and within the next couple of days, the full outcome of this meeting will be made known to the public.

“We are very confident because the morning shows the night. If we had not seen positive signs, we probably would not have taken steps to boost our relationship.

“I have come with the leadership of my political structure all across the State. This is to signify the fact that we are very confident and happy with the way the government is going about putting the State on a greater scale.”

He further said “I’m not here on behalf of the ADC, but I have come as a leader that led a political movement into the ADC a few months ago. I have come here on the platform of that political movement. Majority of us are members of ADC, but, I’m not here to talk of ADC because the party has its procedures.”

The Governor at the meeting was said to have expressed satisfaction about working with Isiaka and his political structure.

“I’m very comfortable with this group, I want to work with you and I’m reiterating my commitment to an inclusive government,” the governor was quoted to have said.