Tribunal reserves judgment on HDP’s petition against Buhari
Ade Adesomoju, Abuja

The Presidential Election Petition Tribunal on Monday reserved judgment in the petition filed by the Hope Democratic Party and its presidential candidate, Ambrose Owuru, to challenge the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari at the February 23, 2019 poll.

The five-man tribunal, led by Justice Mohammed Garba, reserved judgment after parties to the case adopted their final addresses on Monday.

The tribunal had earlier on August 1 fixed August 21 for the adoption of final addresses in respect of the petition filed by the Peoples Democratic Party and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, to challenge the outcome of the last presidential poll.

HDP and Owuru’s petition was anchored on the grounds that the rescheduling of the poll from February 16, 2019 to February 23, 2019 was done without basis.

They contended that with the rescheduling, the presidential election was deemed “abandoned,” paving the way for “people’s controlled affirmative referendum election,” held on February 16, 2019, which they said validated Owuru as the elected President by 50 million votes.

They claimed that the said referendum was conducted by Citizen Observers Referendum Election Right Protection of Nigeria on February 16, the date originally scheduled for the presidential poll.

The HDP alleged in the petition that its candidate emerged as Nigeria’s President in an alleged referendum held on February 16, 2019, and urged the tribunal to so hold.

The HDP and Owuru, on July 22, 2019, opened and closed their case with only one witness and some documents tendered as exhibits.

The respondents – President Muhammadu Buhari; the Independent National Electoral Commission; and the All Progressives Congress – opted not to call any witness to defend the case and urged the tribunal to order the filing of final addresses.

The tribunal subsequently fixed August 5 (Monday) for the adoption of final addresses by the parties.

On Monday, the petitioners urged the tribunal to set aside the presidential election of February 23, 2019.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]