Benue deeply divided, unity needed, says Ortom
Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has called on indigenes of Benue at home and in the Diaspora to unite against the security and economic challenges bedevilling the state.

The News Agency of Nigeria reports that Ortom made the appeal at the 2019 annual convention of the Idoma Association USA in New York at the weekend with the theme, ‘Security and Economic Challenges in Idoma Land.’

Noting that the state is “deeply divided,” the governor emphasised the need for unity and cooperation among indigenes to resist alleged plans by herdsmen to take over their land.

He reiterated plans by his administration to constitute a truth and reconciliation committee to address the challenge of ethnic disharmony fuelled by the last general elections in the state.

The governors said, “Benue is deeply divided today. Elections are over, so we must come together. As we go back to Nigeria, we should be able to set up the committee.

“I thank God for the Idoma nation, especially you here in America. But while we look at the Idoma agenda and the Tiv agenda, for me as governor, it will be a thing of joy to also look at the Benue agenda.

“I believe that if the leaders of the Idoma and Tiv come together at one forum to prosecute the Benue agenda, it will help us all because we are members of the same family from Benue State.’’

Senator Abba Moro (PDP-Benue South) blamed the elite for the ethnic divisions in the state, noting that the average Idoma and Tiv people had nothing against one another.

The member representing Apa/Agatu Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives Mr Godday Samuel, solicited support for the state government’s peace building and conflict resolution efforts.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]