Ex-NNPC chief advises Kogi APC on gov poll
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja

A governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress in Kogi State, Danlami Mohammed, has urged the national leadership of the party to listen to the masses in deciding the mode of the August 29 primary.

The National Working Committee of the party had chosen indirect mode of primary in deciding its governorship candidate in Kogi for the November 16 governorship election.

The decision had, however, generated controversies with a coalition of 20 governorship aspirants calling for direct primary.

Addressing journalists on Monday at the APC National Secretariat in Abuja after picking his Expression of Interest and Nomination forms, Mohammed said the party should listen to the yearning of the masses calling for direct primary.

He said, “It is the masses that are yearning for it (direct). If the party hierarchy believes in the masses, they should listen to the masses. It is the masses that will determine who gets it.”

Mohammed, who retired from the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation after 22 years, said the situation in Kogi required God’s intervention and collective efforts to lead the state to development.

He promised to use his working experience to tap the mineral deposits in the state by working with the legislative at the state and national levels.

He added, “The experience I had in civil service and private life has prepared me well for the task. I have come to Kogi to serve; I have a lot to offer. The situation in Kogi everybody knows.

“Let us come together and join hands to develop the state. Kogi is a connection point of the North with the South. There is need for development of the people and infrastructure. This is a state where people are committing suicide because they have lost hope.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]