Dickson lists qualities of successor in Bayelsa
Daniel Igoni, Yenagoa

Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State has said that his successor must be principled, bold and courageous enough to protect the collective interest of the Ijaw nation at all times.

Dickson, according to a statement by his Special Adviser, Media Relations, Fidelis Soriwei, made the comment during a chat with journalists at the Government House on Sunday.

He noted that in view of the challenges facing the state, Bayelsa could not afford to have what he described as an establishment errand boy as governor.

He also stressed that the next governor must have a clear agenda and be God-fearing to serve the people with a sense of humility and compassion.

“The next governor of the state must be courageous and ready to defend the Ijaw nation at all times. He must not be the errand boy of any ethnic group. I will be sad to see the governor of Bayelsa playing just politics without being able to take a decisive position on issues,” he stated.

Dickson, who said he had raised the standard of governance and expectations, promised to publish an audited account of his eight years’ stewardship in line with his administration’s policy of accountability and transparency.

“The shoes I am leaving behind are very big; posterity will judge. Only very few of the people, who come to talk to me, have the interest of the state at heart. There is no free money to give anybody in Bayelsa. Don’t kill for anybody; none has the power to make you a billionaire,” he said.

The governor also attributed the peaceful atmosphere in the state to the new political culture of tolerance and maturity that his administration had promoted over the last seven and a half years.

Dickson, who commended the political class for the current peace in the state in spite of the multiplicity of aspirants, expressed the hope that all political parties and candidates would abide by the rules of the game for the greater good of the state.

He stressed that the Peoples Democratic Party had so many governorship aspirants in the state because it remained the only solid and robust platform that could win elections in the state.

Dickson said the August 10 local government council polls in the state would hold as planned by the State Independent Electoral Commission, pointing out that the boycott of the election by the All Progressives Congress would not in any way affect the credibility of the poll.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]