‘Senate shouldn’t be retirement home for looters’
Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja

The Global Centre for Conscious Living Against Corruption on Monday warned that the Senate should not be turned to what it called a retirement home for alleged looters.

The centre’s Director-General, Dr Nwambu Gabriel, made the call at a press conference tagged, “Before our esteemed Senate becomes a safe haven for some corrupt ex-governors,” in Abuja.

Gabriel expressed concern that the National Assembly, particularly the Senate, was degeneration into a safe haven for former state governors who he said were being prosecuted by the nation’s anti-corruption agencies.

He said the Senate had been confronted with lots of integrity questions because of the development.

He said there was a need for political parties to begin to prevent corrupt former governors or politicians, especially those still standing trial over alleged corruption, from seeking refuge in the National Assembly.

Gabriel said as of the last count, about 15 ex-governors who are standing trial for corruption are in the Senate.

He said, “The Senate should not be a retirement home for looters.

“Although, former governors standing trial on corruption charges are presumed innocent until proved guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction, some people still argued that it is morally wrong to field such persons to run for any public office.”

He argued that the high turnover of alleged corrupt former governors and others would continue to paint the Senate black.

He added, “It is however worthy to note that the perceived bad image of the Senate did not start with the 7th or the 8th Senate, but has been with us since the Fourth Republic’s Senate.

“But this is not a good reason to continue to live with this embedded virus in the political system of the most populous black nation of the world.”

Gabriel said the only way to restore public confidence in the Senate was by purging the chamber of corrupt politicians.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]