Nigerian pilgrims suffering from diabetes, others – NAHCON
Sunday Aborisade, Adelani Adepegba with agency report

The National Hajj Commission of Nigeria has identified four common diseases afflicting Nigerian pilgrims presently in Saudi Arabia for the Hajj.

The News Agency of Nigeria reported that the Chairman of NAHCON’s medical team, Bello Abdulkadir, said in Makkah on Monday that most of those diagnosed had either high blood pressure, diabetes, ulcer or high fever.

According to him, the medical team attends to an average of 500 patients daily at the main clinic while the remaining clinics also consult an average of between 150 to 200 patients daily.

Abdulkadir said the medical team comprised 90 doctors, 150 nurses and 60 pharmacists, working round the clock to attend to the medical needs of the pilgrims.

He advised the pilgrims on the need for personal hygiene and to avoid exposing themselves to the harsh weather in the holy land.

However, Umar Bateji, a pilgrim from Gombe State, lamented the delay in attending to patients at the clinics.

According to him, a patient spends an average of six hours waiting to be attended to, adding that the situation may worsen a minor health challenge.

He, therefore, urged NAHCON to address the problem.

Meanwhile, the President of the Senate, Dr Ahmad Lawan, on Monday departed Abuja for Saudi Arabia to join millions of Muslim faithful who are gathered in the Holy Land for this year’s Hajj.

A statement by the Special Adviser on Media to the Senate President, Ola Awoniyi, said Lawan, while in the Holy Land, will seize the opportunity to pray for the peace, unity and progress of Nigeria.

The statement explained that Lawan would also pray for the success of the 9th National Assembly, whose members are currently on annual recess.

It noted that the prayer was necessary as the lawmakers engage in legislative activities for the good and advancement of the country.

It added that Lawan would return to the country as soon as the Hajj rites were over.

Meanwhile, the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria has said that the airlift of the last set of intending pilgrims for this year’s hajj would be done on the night of August 5, 2019, (yesterday).

Over 700 intending pilgrims would be airlifted during the operation which ends the movement of persons for the 2019 hajj.

NAHCON Spokesperson, Mrs. Fatima Sanda, confirmed to The PUNCH on Monday that the flight would take care of those who failed to join the earlier flights to the holy land.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]