Buhari may inaugurate ministers, assign portfolios August 21
Olalekan Adetayo and Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja

Barring any last-minute change, President Muhammadu Buhari may inaugurate the 43 ministers designate on August 21, SATURDAY PUNCH learnt on Friday.

It was also learnt that the induction retreat for the ministers designate fixed for August 15 to 16 might be shifted to August 19 and 20.

A government source, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, confirmed this to our correspondent.

The source said, although the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, had earlier announced that the retreat would hold on August 15 and 16, a change in date would be announced because of “the President’s prior engagement”.

He said, “The President will inaugurate the new ministers on August 21.

“You know that the SGF announced earlier in the day that a retreat for the ministers designate would hold on August 15 and 16, after which the inauguration would take place.

“But that date will change because of the President’s prior engagement. During that period, he is scheduled to be in Katsina State where he will be inaugurating some projects.

“In view of this development, the retreat will be moved to August 19 and 20. The SGF will announce the change in date. Then the inauguration will hold on August 21.”

Shortly after administering oaths of office on the ministers, Buhari is expected to assign portfolios to them.

With the Federal Executive Council properly constituted, Buhari will preside over the first meeting of the council in his second term.

READ ALSO: Buhari’s next level ministers and ‘reward’ for graft

The Senate on Tuesday confirmed the 43 nominees Buhari sent to the upper chamber of the National Assembly for screening and confirmation.

Some of the ministers-designate are Uchechukwu Ogah (Abia), Muhammad Bello (Adamawa), Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom), Chris Ngige (Anambra), Sharon Ikeazu (Anambra), Adamu Adamu (Bauchi), Mariam Katagum (Bauchi), Timipre Silva (Bayelsa), George Akume (Benue), Mustapha Shehuri (Borno), Goddy Agba (Cross River), Festus Keyamo (Delta) and Ogbonnaya Onu (Ebonyi), among others.

Meanwhile, the Presidency on Friday insisted President Muhammadu Buhari had not assigned portfolios to his ministers designate, denying the list in circulation, especially on social media.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]