Reviewing foreign policy to protect Nigerians abroad
Following a series of diplomatic blunders by Nigeria in the past three years, ADELANI ADEPEGBA writes that the immediate past Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, must turn over a new leaf if asked to head the same ministry

The emergence of the immediate past Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, as a ministerial nominee has made analysts believe that the soft-spoken Enugu State indigene may return to his erstwhile office as the face of Nigeria on the international scene.

As the nation’s chief diplomat for over three years, Onyeama was able to push many Nigerian representatives into various world organisations, including the United Nations Human Rights Council, Governing Body of the International Labour Organisation, the UN Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, and the UN World Tourism Organisation.

Policy watchers give credit to Onyeama for Nigeria’s impressive presence on the international scene during his stewardship.

Nigerians, who were held captive as slaves in Libya, would not easily forget the prompt intervention and rescue efforts mobilised by the Federal Government.

Collaborating with the International Organisation for Migration and with the assistance of the European Union, the government successfully repatriated hundreds of citizens stranded in Libya, many of whom would have perished.

Despite the nation’s rising global influence, there were lapses in terms of protection for Nigerians facing xenophobic attacks across the world.

Many felt Nigeria’s membership of various international agencies did not deliver the expected results in terms of respect for the nation and protection for its nationals living outside her shores.

It was argued that Onyeama’s tenure did not impact on the international profile of the nation going by the unceasing xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in many parts of the world.

Though he was always quick to condemn incidents of attacks on his compatriots, this was mere cold comfort for the victims.

The frequent attacks on Nigerians in South African are a case in point. As of the last count, about 127 Nigerians had been murdered in that country in the past few years.

The high point of the killings was the murder on June 13 this year, of the Deputy Director-General of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria, Mrs Elizabeth Ndubuisi-Chukwu.

She was killed in a hotel in South Africa while attending the conference of the African Insurance Organisation.

The South African High Commissioner in Nigeria, Ambassador Bobby Moroe, revealed that the case had been prioritised, noting that video footage had been obtained from the hotel to aid investigations.

The diplomat revealed this during a meeting with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Nigerians In Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, and the brother of the late insurance chief, Dr Chiedu Ndubisi, at the South African High Commission, Abuja, on July 16.

Since then, no word had been heard from Pretoria on the incident. Although the MFA and the South African government set up what is called an early warning system, an indicator to alert the South African and Nigerian authorities to imminent or impending xenophobic violence in South Africa, the continued killings of hapless Nigerians in South Africa demonstrated how ineffective the initiative was.

Lately, many Nigerian nationals resident in Ghana had also come under siege from their hosts who attacked their business for allegedly taking over the retail business in their country.

Between June and August 2018, a task force of the Ghanaian government closed about 400 shops belonging to Nigerians and other foreign nationals and arrested their owners for alleged failure to comply with the country’s laws, particularly the stipulation that foreign-owned businesses must have $300,000 capital base.

The amount was subsequently increased to $1m. The firms were also directed to employ at least 10 Ghanaians or shut down. The law was made following the pressure from indigenous petty traders who complained of being crowded out by foreign competitors of which Nigerians constitute a huge segment.

The law was reportedly targeted at protecting the interests of Ghanaian citizens, but it runs contrary to the free trade policy of the Economic Community of West African States, to which both countries are signatories.

In the aftermath of the attack, the Federal Government summoned the Ghanaian High Commissioner in Nigeria, Amb. Rashid Bawa, to explain the closure of the Nigerian firms in spite of earlier assurances.

Nigerians were also disappointed by the lethargic response of the ministry to the harassment of Nigerians by the United States border agents implementing President Donald Trump’s executive order on immigration in 2017.

Many Nigerian travellers with valid travel documents were illegally detained and deported by the US authorities, but the MFA failed to rise to the occasion expeditiously as expected, prompting Dabiri-Erewa to take up the challenge.

Affronted by her action, the ministry officials scrambled to take up the issue with the US Mission in Nigeria.

An online newspaper, Quartz Africa, reported that in the year after Trump took office, US Immigration and Customs Enforcement reported a drop in the total number of deported persons except for African migrants who have seen a spike in the number of people sent back home.

Even though overall deportations dropped to 226,119 in 2017 from 240,255 in 2016, the number rose for Africans—in many cases.

The paper reported that 242 Nigerians were removed from the US in 2016 while 312 were repatriated in 2017.

Again, when some Nigerians and other nationals were trapped in the hurricane that ravaged Dominica about two years ago, the Federal Government failed to render any help to her citizens. While other nations quickly made arrangement to evacuate their citizens, Nigeria failed to do so.

On the positive side, however, following Onyema’s diplomatic shuttle, Nigeria received from Switzerland the sum of $322m which was part of the money stolen by an ex-military dictator, Gen. Sani Abacha.

Another $267m stashed in a Jersey bank account has also been recovered after a five-year legal wrangle and would be split among Jersey, United States and Nigeria.

Despite promises of reforms and rationalisation, many of the 110 Nigerian missions and embassies abroad are still a national embarrassment as they still groan under financial difficulties.

Some of them have reportedly not paid salaries for months and owe huge debts. As part of its cost-saving measures, the Federal Government ordered the closure of three of Nigeria’s foreign missions and down-sized one, citing paucity of funds as the reason. The closed missions were located in Sri Lanka, Czech Republic and the Republic of Serbia while the one in Ukraine was downsized.

Justifying the decision, Onyema said, “Every embassy has written to us about their huge financial demand and when we go to these embassies we see clearly very unattractive state that does not reflect well on the country.

“Very often, the members of staff of the embassy really find things extremely difficult. Clearly, if we want to operate on the scale and scope in which we are at the moment with over 100 missions around the world, we need to spend a lot more.”

An insight into the 2019 budget of the ministry presented to the Senate in April, showed that the government was not willing to spend more and might further shut down many missions as 80 embassies have zero-budget this year.

In 2018, the Federal Government allocated N11.333bn to capital votes for the missions but cut it to N4.123bn in 2019, representing a reduction of N7.209bn or 64 per cent.

The Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Ambassador Mustapha Suleiman, said that discussions were going on the possibility of shutting down some of the missions.

Many of the ambassadors serving in most of the missions were said to be unable to pay their children’s school fees, rent, electricity, medical and other utility bills due to the paucity of funds.

A foreign policy expert, Charles Onunaiju, said the success or failure of the ministerial nominee would depend on the support he gets from the government, government officials working with him and the level of funding or resources available to do his job effectively.

He said, “If he had failed in terms of protection of Nigerians abroad, was there sufficient wherewithal? Does he have what it takes in terms of the funding of the embassies which are the frontline for the protection of Nigerians abroad? He could have the funding, but he may not have the requisite personnel who have the knowledge to deal with the issues.”

He called for a review of the nation’s foreign policy in order to align it with global realities, noting that key issues had cropped up necessitating the re-assessment of Nigeria’s foreign policy position.

Onunaiju added, “There is the emergence of Asia-Pacific, which is very significant. Even key European and American countries are changing their policies to prioritise intensive engagement. I think Nigeria’s policy should be a lot more global.

“There is the Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank which has a lot of members from American and European nations, but Nigeria has not been able to access the membership of the bank. It is a multilateral bank meant to provide funding for infrastructure development. The truth is that the international financing architecture is being redesigned; why is Nigeria missing at the table?”

A senior lecturer, Department of Political Science and International Relations, University of Abuja, Dr Sheriff Ibrahim, said in the next dispensation, the minister must make the interest of Nigeria his major pre-occupation by seeing adequately to the protection of Nigerians in foreign lands.

He also advised the MFA to ensure that the nation’s integrity was respected and promoted outside the country.

Ibrahim said, “We must not continue to dance to the tune of other great powers in the world. So, whatever we do, Nigeria must serve its own interests. The relationship between Nigeria and other countries should serve Nigeria’s interests, so the foreign affairs minister should not serve the interests of Saudi Arabia, America, Russia or Israel.”

If the guess turned out to be right and Onyema was reinstated as foreign affairs minister, he would be expected to show more dedication to the security and protection of Nigerians in the diaspora.

With the government facing financial struggles, Onyema would also do well to push for the quick repatriation of the Abacha loot as well as the $15m arms fund seized by South Africa Revenue Service/ Police Service in September 2014.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]