Oyo Assembly moves to ban open grazing, others
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

Oyo State Open Rearing and Grazing Regulation Bill 2019 has passed the second reading at the state House of Assembly.

The bill is jointly sponsored by the Speaker, Adebo Ogundoyin; the Deputy Speaker, Abiodun Fadeyi; Majority Leader, Sanjo Adedoyin and the Minority Leader, Asimiyu Alarape.

If passed into law, anyone found guilty of open rearing or grazing of livestock is liable to seven years imprisonment or a fine of N200, 000 or both, if convicted.

The bill prohibits movement of livestock from one destination to another within the state, while herdsmen are mandated to register with the government and get identification cards which must be worn at all times.

The bill allows movement of cattle only by rail wagon, truck or pick-ups, while any person found moving livestock on foot is liable to one year imprisonment or a fine of N10, 000 or both, if found guilty.

The penalty for any herdsman who fails to register is two years, imprisonment or a fine of N100,000 or both, while anyone without an identification card is liable to six months imprisonment or a fine of N50,000 or both.

The bill prohibits a minor from livestock grazing, rearing or herding except under the supervision of an adult, while anyone found guilty of possessing a weapon within or outside the ranch is liable to imprisonment for one year or a fine of N100, 000 or both.

If the bill is passed into law, any herdsman wishing to set up ranches or anyone intending to graze livestock on ranches is expected to pay a permit fee and the permit would be renewable after a year, subject to the governor’s approval.

The Speaker, while commenting on the bill, said it would make it an offence for anyone to engage in open rearing, herding and grazing of livestock in the state outside the permitted ranches and also provide opportunities for private investors who may want to have their own ranches in the state.

Alarape representing Atiba constituency and Hakeem Adedibu (Iwajowa constituency) noted that the movement of livestock around the state posed a great risk to farmers in rural communities.

Mr Jacob Bamigboye (Oriire constituency) and Olawumi Oladeji (Ogbomoso North constituency) called for speedy passage of the bill in order to curtail the rising cases of farmers-herders clashes, particularly in the agrarian communities in the state.

To ensure the implementation of the bill, an open grazing prohibition task force comprising representatives of the state government, security agencies, farmers’ association, Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association, vigilantes and the judiciary would be constituted.

While passing the bill to the Committees on Agriculture and Security for further deliberations and scrutiny, the Assembly also resolved to conduct a public hearing on the bill.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]