Ondo leaders carpet Akeredolu over clash, seek probe
Peter Dada, Akure

Leaders of Ikale communities in Ondo State on Thursday called on the state government to set up a panel of enquiry on the communal clash between the people of Araromi-Obu community and the Ikale community in the Odigbo Local Government Area of the state.

In the clash which took place about two weeks ago over land dispute, no fewer than four persons lost their lives.

Addressing journalists in Akure, the state capital, the traditional rulers of Ikaleland said there was the need for fair and just resolution of the crisis.

Speaking on behalf of others, the Jagunmolu of Ikaleland, Gen. Oluyemi Bajowa (retd), said, “ In view of the foregoing, we are requesting in the interest of fairness, equity and justice, that an independent administrative enquiry should be set up by the government to look into the immediate and remote causes of the incessant crisis between Araromi-Obu settlers and the Ikale people.”

Bajowa alleged that Akeredolu had not been neutral in his reactions to the crisis, saying “I was at the palace of Abodi of Ikale land when the Ondo State governor visited. I was shocked and horrified at the governor’s public display and pronouncement of power, devoid of decency and protocol, by taking the Abodi of Ikaleland and other Ikale traditional rulers present to the cleaners.

“He threatened to instruct the security services to level to the ground Ago Alaye (an Ikale community) and other Ikale villages in Araromi-Obu and its environs; he also threw caution to the wind by boasting that he did not need Ikale votes for his re-election.

“ The Araromi-Obu settlers have again repeated their unprovoked aggression using government machinery on Ikale people by arresting and remanding them in prison. In other words, the Nigeria Police which is supposed to be neutral and protect the citizens has been turned to instrument of oppression in the hands of the local government.”

But the state Commissioner for Information, Mr Donald Ojogo, denied the allegation, saying the government had been making efforts to ensure there was peaceful coexistence among communities in the state.

He said, “It is an unfair statement if anyone says the governor is bias in his handling of the crisis. Recall that he visited both areas and appealed for calm even as he deployed armed security operatives to the affected conflict zone. That singular act of swift response by the governor stemmed the crisis, especially as it avoided reprisals from either community.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]