Women demand 35% cabinet seats, write Abiodun
Friday Olokor, Abuja

A coalition of 150 women organisations under the aegis of More Women Campaign have called on the Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, to ensure 35 per cent representation of women in his cabinet.

The organisation, an initiative of the Women Advocates Research and Documentation Center, said it would lead a solidarity walk to the office of the governor on Thursday (today).

The demand was contained in a letter to the governor and signed by the chairperson, Transition Monitoring Group and co-convener of More Women Campaign, Dr Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi; the Executive Director, Women for Peace and Gender Equality Initiative, Ms. Mojisola Akinsanya and Executive Director, Partners West Africa – Nigeria, Kemi Okenyodo.

The document copied to the Speaker, Ogun State House of Assembly and Secretary to the State Government, was titled, ‘Open letter to Ogun State governor for 35% representation of women in the the cabinet for 2019-2023 and beyond.’

The letter read, “We urge you to listen to the yearning of the people and support a pro-people government that portrays representation that is above board and can support development. Take notice sir that the women groups and concerned citizens will undertake a solidarity walk to your office on Thursday August 1, 2019.

“We are concerned by the continued marginalisation of women in leadership positions in the country and hereby request your excellency to consider 35 per cent representation of women in the cabinet who will lead your agenda in the state. We also urge you to consider other social groups, including the youth and people with disabilities.

“We believe that the appointment exercise is a critical tool to steer affairs of the state towards a desirable and sustainable future; such future can support the state towards the achievement of 2030 global agenda.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]