Stakeholders advocate credible process for Bayelsa gov poll
Samuel Nkemakolem, Yenagoa

Some stakeholders in Bayelsa State have advocated a democratic process that is inclusive, free, fair, void of electoral fraud and imposition of candidate for the November 16 governorship poll.

They identified a free and fair democratic process with a strong industrialisation drive as the panacea to ensuring sustainable development in the state.

They made the call at a one-day round table conference in Yenagoa, the state capital, organised by The Destiny Movement, a non-governmental organisation.

In his opening remarks, the Chairman of TDM, Senator John Brambaifa, urged all participants to speak truth to power regardless of their political leanings.

The keynote speaker, Prof. Ambily Etekpe, in his lecture titled, ‘Bayelsa State and Leadership Questions, Problems and Prospects,’ lamented that Bayelsa was the least in development among the five states created by the General Sani Abacha regime.

Blaming the underdevelopment on the frequent travel orchestrated by those in power, he stressed that aggressive industrialisation drive, good governance and social infrastructure among others, were key elements to all round development in the state.

In a communiqué issued, the conference agreed that the major problem of the state was leadership, adding that natural resources of the state and its human potentials had not been developed and utilised properly for the development of the state.

The communiqué added, “That the economy of the state is virtually affected and needs infrastructure development, functional educational system, skills acquisition and capacity building, among others.

“That in order to ensure good governance, a proper electoral system that is free and fair must be entrenched in our state.

“That the security condition has become worrisome and something must be done urgently about that and all issues should be tackled seriously to reduce the security issue in the state.”

Those who spoke at the occasion included former Ijaw National Congress President, Kimse Okoko, Senator Nimi Amange, Dr Philip Okolobiri, Dr Konrad Welson and Rear Admiral Thomas Lokoson.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]