Akeredolu starves us of fund since inception – Assembly
Peter Dada, Akure

The Ondo State House of Assembly on Tuesday described the Assembly complex as the worst in the country in terms of infrastructure, alleging that Governor Rotimi Akeredolu and previous administrations in the state failed to release money for the renovation of the complex .

The lawmakers, through the Chairman, House Committee on Information, Mr Gbenga Omole, recalled that a snake was found inside the hallowed chamber last Wednesday while the termites-invested ceiling of the chamber caved in, preventing the plenary session from being held.

This, according to him, made the assembly to adjourn sitting indefinitely.

The lawmakers called for total autonomy of the legislative arm of government for proper functioning.

In a communiqué issued at the end of their parliamentary meeting held at the Speaker’s Lodge, Alagbaka, Akure, the Ondo legislators reiterated that the complex was in a state of dilapidation and needed urgent renovation.

The meeting was presided over by the Speaker, Bamidele Oloyeloogun, while the communique was read by the lawmaker representing Ese Odo constituency, Mr Success Torukerijo.

The lawmakers said, “We want to restate and reaffirm that on Wednesday July 24, 2019, a snake fell from the ceiling into the chamber of the Assembly. On Thursday, July 25, 2019, part of the ceiling caved in and fell into the chamber, preventing us from holding a scheduled meeting inside the chamber.

“We take exeption to the doctored video released from the media office of the governor as it did not reflect what transpired when the governor visited the assembly on Friday July 26, 2019 and we will not want to take issue with him by releasing the original version of the tape.

“We reiterate the constitutional status of the legislature as an independent arm of government which therefore deserves to be accorded such.

“We want to state without any equivocation that no fund has been released to the assembly for capital projects in the last five years, in spite of the yearly budgetary provision and there has not been any cash-backing for the renovation of the assembly for the past 10 years.”

When contacted, the Ondo State Commissioner for Information Mr Donald Ojogo, declined comment on the matter.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]