Implement Uwais committee’s recommendations, Atiku tells FG
Success Nwogu, Abuja

The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the February election, Atiku Abubakar, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to implement the recommendations of the National Electoral Reform Committee headed by former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Mohammed Uwais.

This, he said, would help to achieve credible elections in the country.

Atiku, in a statement on Monday, also called for the creation of Electoral Crimes Commission.

He alleged that the 2019 elections were several steps down from the 2015 elections in terms of credibility.

According to him, Nigeria’s electoral system needs not just the amendments to the Electoral Act passed by the eight National Assembly, but needs to be proactive.

This, according to him, will be by taking steps to ensure that the perceived lapses that made it possible for the 2019 elections to be allegedly manipulated or rigged are addressed.

He said, “One way of addressing these lapses is to implement the salient recommendations of the National Electoral Reform Committee headed by former Chief Justice of the Federation, Justice Mohammed Lawal Uwais.

“One of such recommendations, which will enhance the independence of the supposedly Independent National Electoral Commission, is the recommendation that the power to appoint the chairman and board of the INEC be taken away from the President and given to the judiciary.”

“Of all the three arms of government, the judiciary is the least affected by elections, meaning that it has the highest objectivity in matters relating to the INEC. It is therefore in the best position of the three arms, to appoint a chairman and board members for the electoral body that are impartial, competent and patriotic.”

Atiku said Nigeria currently faced lots of challenges, including security and economic revival.

He stated that to effectively tackle those problems, government must have an honest and indisputable mandate.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]