Doctors extend strike notice as Gbajabiamila intervenes
Leke Baiyewu, Abuja

The National Association of Resident Doctors has extended its strike notice to the Federal Government following the intervention of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila.

Gbajabiamila last week, through a member of the House and immediate past Secretary-General of the Nigerian Medical Association, Mr Yusuf Sununu, appealed to the doctors to suspend the strike pending a meeting with him.

At the meeting on Monday in Abuja, the Speaker persuaded the association and officials of the Ministry of Health to reach an agreement on how to settle the matter.

The meeting, which lasted for close to two hours, had in attendance the Majority Leader, Alhassan Ado-Doguwa; Deputy Chief Whip, Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, and other members of the House.

Top officials from the ministries of finance and health as well as the Director-General, Budget Office, Ben Akabueze, also attended the meeting.

The President of NARD, Dr Olusegun Olaopa, said they were seeking their salary arrears, skipped salaries amounting to N23.6bn and the resolution of the irregularities in the implementation of the Resident Doctors Act.

Gbajabiamila said, “When you talk about essential services, the most important is health services, because you save lives. So, we know the consequences of your going on strike. Since we all know the consequences, we should be serious about the issue.

“Ours is to appeal to you using the instrumentality of this House. The issue of your N3.5bn, I can almost assure you that that will be resolved next month. There’s already machinery in motion to ensure that it is paid by next month.

“In the presence of everyone here, the finance (ministry) is committing three weeks and you’ll get your pay. As a house, we’ll make sure we follow through. So, for the sake of lives, on that particular one, I beg you to tarry a while.”

On the Resident Doctors Act, the Speaker said the House would ensure that the House Committee on Health provided effective oversight to the relevant agencies. He also stated that the House would ensure the inclusion of the N23.6bn skipped salaries due to the doctors in the 2020 budget.

Gbajabiamila said, “We’re going to put our reputation on the line and try to see how we can get the executive to bring whatever is agreeable and due to them (NARD) into the budget. On our part, we will make sure that whatever is due to you forms part of the 2020 budget.”

Olaopa said the association would wait for three weeks.

Olaopa said after the meeting, “The issues that we have raised that have been the main source of this agitation is basically our emoluments that we have worked for. That some agencies of government have been making all efforts to scuttle, and that has created that height of displeasure among our members.

“The other issue is in respect of the implementation of the Medical Residency Training Act that President Muhammadu Buhari assented to in May 2018. It is unfortunate also that some chief executives are making efforts to frustrate the implementation of the Act.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]