MASSOB accuses APGA of destroying Ojukwu’s ideals
Tony Okafor, Awka

The Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra has accused the leadership of the All Progressives Grand Alliance of destroying the ideals of the patriarch of the party, the late Dim Odumegwu Ojukwu.

In a statement by the Deputy Leader of MASSOB, Ikechukwu Ekwe, the group said the party was being run aground.

The group condemned the internal crisis and the lack of trust and confidence rocking APGA.

It said, “MASSOB as a stakeholder in the affairs of Ndigbo is not happy about the degeneration of APGA.

“Our major concern in this political ill-wind is borne out of the fact that the name of Dim Odumegwu Ojukwu was involved in APGA.

“MASSOB warns that every legacy that the name and person of Ojukwu were genuinely connected with will never be allowed to be destroyed.”

It advised the leadership of APGA and Governor Willie Obiano to “stop pretending that Ojukwu’s political dynasty is intact while both the outer walls and internal pillars are heavily cracking.

“APGA as the political bride of Ndigbo was healthy and 80 per cent intact when it was handed over to Obiano as the APGA governor and Chief Victor Oye, the national chairman. But today, the APGA is deteriorating with an infectious disease of pathological hatred, character assassination, blackmailing and self-interest.

“Ojukwu will never forgive those killing APGA with external collaborators because of their selfishness and personal ego.”

It regretted that founding members of APGA had been frustrated out of the party because of ill-treatment.

It frowned on the manner by which Ojukwu’s widow, Bianca, was being maltreated by the party.

“We advise the current leaders of APGA, Willie Obiano and Dr Victor Oye, to urgently take positive steps to revive the image of APGA which was dragged in the mire during and after this year general elections.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]