Edo politics: Obaseki, Oshiomhole in the eye of the storm
SOLA SHITTU writes that things have fallen apart between Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki and his predecessor, Adams Oshiomhole, ahead of the 2020 governorship poll

Prior to his exit from office as the governor of Edo State in 2016, the task before Adams Oshiomhole was how to sell his anointed successor, Godwin Obaseki, to the various political groups in the ruling All Progressives Congress in the state.

Oshiomhole, an accomplished labour leader, had preferred Obaseki, who was the head of his economic amd strategic management team for eight years, over his deputy, Pius Otubu, who had equally served him for eight years.

The choice of Obaseki, however, met a brick wall especially before Edo politicians who alleged that Obaseki was arrogant, not known and not saleable. But Oshiomhole told them “that’s why I brought him, to make him known and make him saleable.”

The then-comrade governor, as he was popularly known, was used to having his way right from his days as the leader at the Labour House in Abuja.

After much begging, persuasion and lobbying, Obaseki emerged as the choice candidate of the party and subsequently as Oshiomhole’s successor.

Among other reasons, Oshiomhole had premised his campaign for Obaseki on his career as a technocrat, arguing that he would be able to consolidate and turn around the economic fortunesof the state, especially with the dwindling oil revenue from the Federal Government.

But political observers believed that beneath the laudable quality of Obaseki as a technocrat and Oshiomole’s government economic powerhouse, was the role he also played for him during his legal battle for the number one seat in the Government House. Therefore, his choice was seen as nothing but a bold compensation for that role.

However, it was not long before the romance between the duo turned sour. It started right from the composition of Obaseki’s cabinet after his victory in the 2-16 governorship election, but the tension was quickly doused in order not to send the wrong signals to opposing groups in the party who felt Obaseki was forced on them.

But the internal bickering between the governor and his supposed godfather resurfaced again during the party primaries for the 2019 general elections in the state and since then “the centre could no longer hold” for Obaseki and Oshiomhole, who is now the national chairman of the APC.

Obaseki felt Oshiomhole’s influence in his government was becoming overbearing. As governor, he wanted to have his way both as the head of the executive arm of government and as the party leader in his state, just like his boss, Oshiomhole, when he was in power.

READ ALSO: Edo’ll have peace if cabal stops disturbing Obaseki –Ezomo of Benin

He had said, “The state will not be left in the hands of selfish political gladiators marauding themselves as father in a bid to create confusion.”

In the late hours of July 17, nine out of the 24 members in the state House of Assembly, who were loyal to Obaseki, were inaugurated, leaving out the 15 others supposedly loyal to Oshiomhole.

The inauguration came after much hue and cry from the various stakeholders within and outside the state.

The 15 lawmakers-elect, led by the younger brother of the APC national chairman, Seidu Oshiomhole, chose to address journalists the following day to state their own side of the story, but the venue for the press conference was turned into a boxing ring by hoodlums who attacked the lawmakers-elect and practically turned them to punching bags to the surprise of journalists who were present at the occasion. The hoodlums were allegedly led by an aide to the governor.

After the attack, the 15 lawmakers-elect immediately relocated to Abuja where they continued the fight for their causes. They vowed to resist any attempt to impose Francis Okiye, the newly elected Speaker of the House, on them.

But speaking to a group of Edo indigenes resident in Abuja who visited him at the Edo Governor’s Lodge in Abuja, Obaseki vowed never to allow “Edo State to be a pawn in anybody’s political chess game. The only thing they have said is that I refused to share money and I am not taking care of the people who brought me into office. I said 300,000 Edo people voted for me to be governor; if I do for the people, everybody will benefit.”

Although the governor said there was no conflict of interest between him and his predecessor, he berated him, saying Oshiomhole was not interested in the peace of the state.

In his own reaction, Okiye said his emergence as Speaker was based on zoning by the party and that even if the House was dissolved and re-inaugurated again, he would still remain the Speaker.

According to him, some people were kicking against his appointment because they knew he would not be used as rubber -stamp or instrument in the hands of people to destabilise the state. He vowed not to succumb to any pressure from any quarters to relinquish his office except due process was followed.

He said, “I am not here by my own law. I am abiding by the rules of the House. I am a Speaker by the rules of the House and if the rules say otherwise, I will abide. What I am saying is that there is a provision for changing the leadership. This is my third shot in the House and I have held different kinds of leadership positions.

“My speakership is not cast on stone. It is usually by the grace and support of the members. As long as the House comes together and abides by the rules, that will not be a problem. But you cannot be asking for a change from outside.

“You see, a House manages itself only when it has been inaugurated and members subscribe to the relevant oath. This is not the first time the leadership of the House has been changed. This is not the first time committees and others have been juggled. We keep saying complete your documentation, come to the floor and be inaugurated and then we can now listen to your agitation. So they still have the opportunity to be inaugurated and participate in the business of the House and then we listen to their agitation,” he said.

Seid Oshiomhole, who is leading the opposing lawmakers, refused to comment on the crisis. He said since the matter had already been taken up by the House of Representatives, it was better to exercise patience and allow them to work.

“You know they have commenced a process already, so let us wait and see the outcome of the process. Let us allow the process to take place properly, for me to make any comment now will not be okay. Let’s wait for the committee,” he stressed.

But Henry Idahagbon, the immediate past Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice of the state, said Obaseki was just being ungrateful to the hands that fed him. He said prior to his appointment as Special Adviser on Economic Affairs, he was a nobody in the state.

Idahagbon, who was one of the first persons Oshiomhole told about his successor, regretted that he gave his support to Obaseki.

He lamented that Obaseki was a wrong person as governor, describing his emergence as a case of taking a clothing material to a bricklayer or carpenter instead of a tailor.

Idahagbon, who is also one of the two founders of the Edo Peoples Movement kicking against Obaseki’s administration, said perhaps if he had supported those who opposed the nomination of Obaseki then as successor to Oshiomhole, Edo State would not be in the mess it was now.

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Obaseki can’t be Edo APC leader when we have Oshiomhole –Idahagbon, former state Attorney General

“We made a fundamental mistake in supporting him for the position in 2016. I belong to Oshiomhole’s camp and I am unapologetic about it. The governor too also belongs to Oshiomhole’s camp, he is a creation of Oshiomhole but for Oshiomole, nobody knows Godwin Obaseki. Oshiomhole brought him from profound obscurity to the limelight. So, the governor and many of us who worked with Oshiomhole are all his products. On the primaries that he conducted, Edo people should be grateful that the national headquarters of the party did not allow it to stand because we would have been having a repetition of the Zamfara case in Edo. The Supreme Court has held that the power to conduct primaries belongs to the National Working Committee of the party and not to any governor. And that was the madness we saw in Zamfara when governor Yari prevented members of the NWC sent to conduct primaries in the state from doing their job. In Edo State, he did the same thing. It took the intervention of the national headquarters of the party to wrest some of the offices from him.

“On the second issue of not allowing him to nominate, it is because he doesn’t know and doesn’t want to know. The power to nominate persons for appointment does not belong to the governor alone, it is between the governor and the leadership of the party and who is the leader of the party today in Edo State, it is Oshiomhole. The governor has claimed that when Oshiomhole was governor he was also the leader. Yes. When Oshiomhole was governor he was the leader because there was no former governor in the party when Oshiomhole was the governor. It is like Babajide Sanwo-Olu claiming to be the leader of the APC in Lagos State. Sanwo-Olu cannot claim so because he is far junior to Bola Tinubu, let alone Babatunde Fashola or Akinwunmi Ambode. The leader of the APC in Lagos State is Bola Tinubu while Sanwo-Olu is the governor.”

For now , Obaseki is seen and perceived as a stranger by this political class who are hell bent on seeing that until he recognises them as the power that be in the state, peace will be far from his administration.

They also believe that the governor’s chance of coming back in the 2020 election is getting slimmer as the day progresses.

However, observers believe only time will tell who will eventually be the winner between the Oshiomhole and his estranged political godson.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]