Ex-female CP joins Bayelsa gov race
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja

A retired Commissioner of Police, Diseye Nsirim-Poweigha, on Friday obtained the expression of interest and nomination forms of the All Progressives Congress for the August 29, 2019 primary election of the party in Bayelsa State.

She is the first female governorship aspirant to join the November 16 governorship race in Bayelsa.

Nsirim-Poweigha, who served as Commissioner of Police in Niger State, advocated adequate funding of the nation’s security.

“Government needs to put more money into the security apparatus of the state. Security is not only the government’s business, but it is also everyone’s business. Whether state or federal police, what is needed is adequate funding,” she said.

Nsirim-Poweigha lamented poor communication between security agencies in Bayelsa State and their colleagues in other parts of the country.

She also lamented that the entire state had only two major roads, adding that available natural resources in the state had been left untapped.

She said, “Our youths have now become kidnappers because they don’t have work to do since the government in place has not provided any for them. Bayelsa has a lot of untapped mineral resources. It does not have a good housing system. Everybody is struggling to get houses for themselves.

“Give us a chance to make the difference in Bayelsa. A situation whereby some people are saying women cannot lead in Nigeria should not be allowed to continue because we have seen women serving as great leaders in other parts of the world. The communication system in Bayelsa has completely broken down. You cannot communicate with somebody in other parts of the state.

“When we come to power, we will work with the security agencies to address the security situation in the state because, without security, there will be no investment or industries in the state. It is a shame that with all its resources, there are no industries in the state.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]