PDP rakes in N633m from Bayelsa, Kogi gov nomination forms
Success Nwogu

The Peoples Democratic Party has realised about N633m in 23 days from the sale of expression of interest and nomination forms to 33 governorship aspirants from Bayelsa and Kogi states.

The Independent National Electoral Commission had fixed the governorship elections for November 16.

Investigations by our correspondent in Abuja on Friday revealed that 21 male and female aspirants bought the forms in Bayelsa State while no fewer than 12 aspirants purchased the forms in Kogi State.

The male aspirants from both states paid N20m each for the nomination form and N1m for expression of interest form while the female aspirants paid only N1m each only for expression of interest form. The party made nomination form free for women to encourage them in their political aspiration.

The aspirants from Kogi State included Dr Joseph Ameh; the senator representing Kogi West, Dino Melaye; Abubakar Suleiman, Grace Adejo and Mr Abubakar Ibrahim, son of a former governor of the state, Idris Ibrahim. Others are Bayo Averehi, Mohammed Shaibu, Dr Victor Adoji, Bayo Agberedi, and Air Vice Marshal Salia Atawodi (retd.).

The aspirants from Bayelsa State include a former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Timi Alaibe; a member representing Sagbama/Ekeremor federal constituency at the House of Representatives, Frederick Agbedi; the senator representing Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, Douye Diri; the incumbent deputy governor of the state, Rear Admiral John Jonah, Mr Tobin Igiri, Mr Anthony George-Ikoli (SAN) and Teriale Oliver among others.

According to the governorship election timetable for Kogi and Bayelsa states, the sale of expression of interest and nominations forms commenced on Monday, June 24 and ended on Wednesday, July 24.

READ ALSO: 12 reasons why hepatitis must be eliminated

However, the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, had yet to state whether the period for sale/collection of expression of interest and nomination forms was extended.

Meanwhile, Alaibe, while addressing journalists in Abuja after returning his expression of interest and nomination forms, confirmed that there were 21 governorship aspirants from Bayelsa State who had bought the forms.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]