Senate screens nominees without asset declaration certificates
Sunday Aborisade and Eniola Akinkuotu

The Senate on Friday screened seven ministerial nominees, bringing the number of cabinet nominees so far screened by the red chamber to 31 since Wednesday.

Those screened on Friday were Abubakar Malami (Kebbi), Hadi Sirika (Katsina), Festus Keyamo (Delta), Pauline Tallen (Plateau), Osagie Ehanire (Edo), Muhammadu Dingyadi (Sokoto) and Ali Pantami (Gombe).

Those yet to be screened are Gbemisola Saraki (Kwara), Goddy Jeddy-Agba (Cross River), Suleiman Adamu (Jigawa), Maryam Katagum (Bauchi), Lai Mohammed (Kwara) and Clement Agba (Edo).

Others are Geofrey Onyeama (Enugu), Muhammad Mahmoud (Kaduna), Sabo Nanono (Kano), Raji Fashola (Lagos), Rauf Aregbosola (Osun) and Saleh Mamman (Taraba).

The screening will continue on Monday.

Meanwhile, the Senate has been acting in breach of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) by screening cabinet nominees who did not submit their asset declaration certificates.

Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo representing Bayelsa West said this on Friday through a point of order, during the screening at the National Assembly complex, Abuja.

According to him, the constitution stipulates that for anyone nominated for any office by the President must submit their asset declaration certificate.

However, he asked why they had been screening ministerial nominees that did not present their asset declaration certificates as required by law.

Ewhrudjakpo said since the Muhammadu Buhari administration had laid much emphasis on fighting corruption, it must be demonstrated at all levels of governance.

He said they should insist on the nominees submitting their asset declaration certificates at the confirmation stage, saying those who failed to comply should be disqualified.

[READ ALSO] Ministerial screening: Drama as Melaye tells Keyamo to recite national anthem

Meanwhile, The Senate says some ministerial nominees may not scale through the screening if they fail to provide their asset declaration certificates which is a condition for persons holding public office.

The Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, stated this while sustaining a point of order raised by Bayelsa West lawmaker, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, at the screening on Friday.

This implies that 42 out of the 43 ministerial nominees who have once held public office risk being disqualified if they don’t provide evidence of asset declaration next week.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]