Crisis ’ll end APC’s reign in Edo – PDP
Sola Shittu, Benin

The Peoples Democratic Party in Edo State on Thursday described the lingering crisis in the ruling All Progressives Congress in the state as an early exit warning for the party in the 2020 governorship election.

The state PDP Chairman, Mr Dan Obih, who stated this in an exclusive interview with The PUNCH in Benin said a party that could not manage just 24 members of the state House of Assembly would surely not be able to manage a state.

He said this had shown clearly that Edo deserved far better than what it had on the ground now.

“We have the APC-dominated house and nobody can accuse the PDP of the ugly development in the house; rather it is clear now to the people of Edo State that a party that cannot manage 24 persons cannot manage a state. Come 2020, we urge Edo people to vote out the APC and bring the PDP in,” he said.

Noting that the PDP had no single seat in the Assembly, he said he was still very proud that the party won two senatorial seats and four seats at the House of Representatives in the last general elections.

Obih expressed the hope that the number of the PDP members in the National Assembly could still be more as some of the seats, belonging to the APC, were being contested in court.

He said the PDP was still finding it very difficult to understand what played out at the state House of Assembly election, adding that the magical formula the APC used in getting that number was still a mystery to the Edo PDP.

For democracy to last in the country, the PDP chairman said there was the need to revisit the law setting up the Independent National Electoral Commission.

According to him, from some of the things coming out from the conduct of the last general elections, it is obvious that the greatest threat to Nigeria’s democratic journey is INEC.

READ ALSO: Currency circulation rose to N2.16tn in April — CBN

Obih stated, “We have results declared in areas where they have internal security threats, where people cannot come out more than places where there are no crises. I think it is very clear to Nigerians now that the greatest threat to our democracy is INEC. Today INEC is talking about server or no server, there are lots of contradictions.”

Obih also advocated a law to protect INEC against “executive rascality” stressing that untill that was achieved, Nigeria would continue to have elections that were skewed to favour those who were in power.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]