APC gov candidate seeks fresh poll in Akwa Ibom
Patrick Odey, Uyo

The All Progressives Congress governorship candidate in Akwa Ibom in the last election, Nsima Ekere, on Thursday, called for the cancellation of the March 9 governorship election in the state.

Ekere said this while testifying as the principal witness (PW46) in his petition against Governor Udom Emmanuel’s re-election.

The candidate, while under cross-examination by the second respondents’ counsel, Tayo Oyetibo (SAN), dismissed his earlier claim that he won in some local government areas in the state, including Essien Udim and Etim Ekpo, during the governorship election.

When confronted with his earlier deposition and the evidence by the Essien Udim Divisional Police Officer, Samuel Isiek, that election in Essien Udim was free, fair and credible, Ekere admitted that even though his tendered result showed he won in Essien Udim, he wanted the election also cancelled.

“My plea is for full nullification of the entire election, including Essien Udim, because by the time we went through documents provided by INEC, we discovered that election was not conducted according to the provisions of the electoral law, ” he said.

Referring Ekere to Paragraph 15 (11) of his statement, Oyetibo asked if accreditation took place in the areas that he allegedly won, Ekere replied that he was no longer in support of his previous statement about winning in those areas.

“My Lord, I have abandoned the areas where I won,” he said.

When confronted with his statement on oath in paragraphs 15(18) where he claimed to have figures of accredited voters for the March 9 election, Ekere confirmed that he got it from the INEC server but failed to provide the data source before the tribunal.

The APC governorship candidate who had alleged in Paragraph 44 of his deposition that INEC recruited PDP members as electoral officers, also failed to provide the list of the PDP members who he claimed were recruited by INEC as assistant polling officer, supervisory polling officers and returning officers for the election.

Sensing frustration at some point during cross-examination, Ekere sought the protection of the tribunal panel chairman, A. M. Yakubu, who told him to answer the question as his request for protection at that point was unwarranted.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]