Ex-commissioner knocks Abiodun for Ogun building comment
Samson Folarin

A former Commissioner for Housing in Ogun State, Segun Abiodun, has criticised Governor Dapo Abiodun for faulting the architectural and structural designs of the state’s judiciary complex.

Segun, who claimed it was an attempt to rubbish the good works of a former governor of the state, Ibikunle Amosun, advised the incumbent governor to stop chasing the shadows.

Abiodun had last week flayed the contractor that handled the construction of the complex, saying that the did a shoddy job

In a statement on Wednesday, Segun noted that the complex was conceived to provide the judiciary in the state a befitting environment for the dispensation of justice.

According to him, the building, which was inaugurated on May 25, 2019, by President Muhammadu Buhari, has 13 courtrooms with judges’ offices, support staff offices, a library, conference facilities, a ceremonial court, a Chief Judge’s court, a central library, a restaurant, a crèche, among others.

He said, “The beauty and utility of the complex was acknowledged by no less a personality than President Muhammadu Buhari, who at the inauguration commended the Amosun administration for conceiving such a laudable project.

“The allegation of architectural and structural defects was to create the impression that both the design and construction have been incompetently executed. This is totally baseless and unfounded. The judiciary complex was constructed by one of the most sought-after construction companies in the West African sub-region, De Simone Group (Monterossa),” he added.

The former commissioner said he designed and supervised the architecture of the complex, just as he designed and supervised Abiodun’s residence in Iperu, Ogun State.

Segun noted that the construction and furnishing companies for the judiciary complex were also “carefully and characteristically” selected to deliver high standards.

READ ALSO: Ogun gov denies plans to scrap MAUTECH

“The comments of Prince Dapo Abiodun so far on the projects inherited from the Amosun administration have indeed confirmed fears that many of them would be denied of funding to frustrate their completion so as to label them as abandoned projects of the Amosun administration.

“Thankfully, the Amosun-led administration foresaw this and ensured that ongoing projects were either fully paid for or advance payments of between 80 and 90 per cent were made,” he added.

He urged the governor to focus on programmes and projects that would benefit residents “instead of chasing the shadows.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]