2019 elections: US imposes visa restrictions on culpable Nigerians
Adelani Adepegba, Abuja

The United States has imposed visa restrictions on some Nigerians for undermining the democratic process in the country during the 2019 general elections.

It explained that the affected individuals, who were not identified, operated with impunity at the expense of Nigerians and undermined democratic principles and human rights.

Those affected include individuals indicted for electoral violence, rigging and other anti-democratic activities before, during and after the 2019 elections.

The spokesman for the US Department of State, Morgan Ortagus, who disclosed this in a statement in Washington on Tuesday, explained that the visa restrictions would affect Nigerians believed to be responsible for undermining democracy in Nigeria.

Ortagus said the US had earlier warned in its statement on January 24 that the American government would consider consequences – including visa restrictions – for individuals responsible for undermining the Nigerian democratic process or for organising election-related violence.

The statement read partly, “To that end, the Secretary of State is imposing visa restrictions on Nigerians believed to be responsible for, or complicit in, undermining democracy in Nigeria.

“These individuals have operated with impunity at the expense of the Nigerian people and undermined democratic principles and human rights.

“The Department of State emphasises that the actions announced today are specific to certain individuals and not directed at the Nigerian people or the newly elected government.

“This decision reflects the Department of State’s commitment to working with the Nigerian government to realise its expressed commitment to end corruption and strengthen democracy, accountability, and respect for human rights.”

READ ALSO: Kwara revokes acquisition of Alimi Chalet by Saraki

The US insisted that it was a steadfast supporter of Nigerian democracy and commended all those who participated peacefully in the February and March 2019 elections and have worked to strengthen democratic institutions and processes in the country.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]