CTA urges INEC to conclude Imo North poll
Sunday Aborisade, Abuja

One of the local observers groups accredited to cover the last general elections, the Centre for Transparency Advocacy, has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission to appoint a new returning officer to complete the collation of results of the Imo North Senatorial District election.

The centre’s Director of Legal and Documentation, Tochukwu Ohazuruike, stated this at a news conference in Abuja on Wednesday.

The group, which lamented that Imo North remained the only constituency in Nigeria without a senator, advised INEC to make appropriate declarations after completing the collation.

Ohazuruike said, “We call on INEC in exercise of its inherent powers to appoint another returning officer to complete the collation of results for the election and make the appropriate declaration.

“We also urge the commission to file an appeal against the judgment of the Federal High Court because there may not be an election in Nigeria again if politicians can print their own election results and declare themselves as winners.”

Ohazuruike said the centre was not interested in whoever would win the election but that the election processes be concluded in line with the laws.

“We can clearly say that the returning officer earlier appointed has absconded. Somebody wants to be declared winner before the election is concluded. This is what we are against. We are interested in how INEC concludes this election because this is a danger for future elections in the country,” he said.

The group also called on the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to immediately act on affidavits of INEC over an alleged forgery against one of the candidates.

Meanwhile, the EFCC said Okorocha refused to make himself available for questioning over allegations of fraud despite invitations.

The acting spokesman of the EFCC, Tony Orilade, in a statement on Wednesday said the Enugu Zonal Office on July 23, 2019, marked some property traced to Okorocha, as well as those of his family members and cronies.

The statement read, “It is also pertinent to state that the Commission has pictorial and video evidences which put a lie to the claim that Rochas Foundation College was allegedly raided by the EFCC while in session. This could not be so because the school was not in session.”

It urged Nigerians to disregard the antics of some “unscrupulous politicians and fraudsters who seek to distract the commission from holding them accountable for their nefarious activities.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]