Issue fresh assembly proclamation, Reps tell Bauchi gov
Success Nwogu and Leke Baiyewu, Abuja

The House of Representatives has called on Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State to withdraw the two proclamations earlier issued by him and present a fresh one for the inauguration of the state House of Assembly.

The House at the plenary on Wednesday considered and adopted the report by the ad hoc committee set up to investigate the crisis rocking the assembly over its inauguration and emergence of two speakers.

Apart from issuance of a fresh proclamation, the federal parliament threatened to take over the running of the state legislature if the governor failed to comply with the resolution within one month.

Approving the recommendations by the panel, the House resolved to “condemn the unfortunate incidents that led to the purported election of two different members-elect as Speakers of the 9th Bauchi State House of Assembly, either by the group of 11 members-elect or the group of 18 members-elect, without following due process and proper legislative practice.

“Urge the Executive Governor of Bauchi State, in the interest and well being of the people of Bauchi State, to withdraw the Letters of Proclamation of June 17, 2019 and June 20, 2019, and reissue a new proclamation letter for holding of the first session of the 9th Bauchi State House of Assembly, which will be publicised in national dailies and broadcast media, with specific date, time and venue for the inauguration.

“Notify the Bauchi State Government that failure to comply with Prayer 2 above within a period of one month, the House of Representatives shall invoke the provisions of Section 11 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended).”

The lawmakers also resolved to transmit the resolutions to the Senate for concurrence.

Efforts by members of the House, especially those in the minority Peoples Democratic Party, which is the governing party in Bauchi State, proved abortive.

The Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu, had cited Order 9 Rule 5 of the House Standing Rules, urging the chamber to suspend the consideration pending the time cases taken to courts on the matter would be resolved.

The Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, who presided over the plenary, however ruled that the report would be adopted. He stated that the House was not served any notice by any court, stressing that the legislature could not be stopped from carrying out its functions even when served by a court.

Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party Governors’ Forum on Wednesday urged the National Assembly not to interfere in the leadership crisis rocking the Bauchi State House of Assembly.

The Chairman of the forum, Seriake Dickson, in a statement urged NASS to abide by the order of the Bauchi High Court restricting it from interfering in the leadership crisis in the state House of Assembly.

Dickson, who is also the Governor of Bayelsa State, cautioned against encouraging impunity and lawlessness.

He said, “We also call on the NASS not to back the culture of impunity and lawlessness that is hardening its bite on the polity and show more respect for the rights of the people.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]