Lawmaker seeks Senate’s support for Kaduna on measles threat
Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna

The member representing the Kaduna North Senatorial District, Mallam Uba Sani, has expressed concerns over the outbreak of measles which reportedly claimed the lives of no fewer than 100 children in Wusar community in the Igabi Local Government Area of the state.

The Senator in a statement by his Legislative Assistant, Abubakar Abubakar, in Kaduna on Tuesday, urged the 9th Senate to declare a national health emergency on the measles threat in his constituency.

Abubakar said Sani alerted the Senate to the danger of a measles outbreak in the Wusar community that claimed the lives of about 100 children.

“Sequel to Sani’s motion on the urgent need to address the issue, the Senate rose up in unison to declare the outbreak in Wusar a national health emergency,” he said.

According to him, the Senate granted all of Sani’s prayers, which include sympathising with the affected community by observing a minute’s silence in honour of the children who lost their lives, and directing the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, the National Primary Health Care Development Agency and National Emergency Management Agency to mobilise to Wusar for an on-the-spot assessment with a view to providing relief materials and other necessary support.

Abubakar added, “While granting the third prayer, the Senate directed the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control to set up an office in Kaduna State for rapid response

“It urged the Federal Ministry of Health, the NPHDA, NCDC, NOA and other relevant Federal Government Agencies to embark on and intensify massive sensitisation and awareness campaign on the dangers associated with measles with a view to eliminating the scourge in the country.

“It directed its committee on Primary Health and Communicable Disease when constituted, to engage the Director General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control on the status of the centre’s statutory requirement to have zonal centres in all the six geopolitical zones and offices in all the states of the federation as well as follow up on the activities of the centre.

“It also called for increased budgetary allocation for the management of the NCDC and the management of the NPHDA in order to fast-track the establishment of zonal centres in all the six geo political zones and offices in all the states of the Federation.”

The statement quoted the Senator as thanking his colleagues for their support and not hesitating to approve all his prayers.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]