We’ll reconcile PDP, our legislators – Wabara
Success Nwogu, Abuja

The fact-finding committee set up by the Peoples Democratic Party on the role played by its members in the election of the presiding officers of the 9th National Assembly met with the PDP caucus on Tuesday.

The chairman of the committee and a former Senate President, Adolphus Wabara, said the committee aimed to reconcile the party with the National Assembly members and herald reforms that would best serve the interest of Nigeria.

“The implicit confidence Nigerians have in the PDP should not be allowed to wane. We must collectively steer the ship of the party on the path of responsible politics, responsible governance and responsible leadership,” he said.

The Senate Minority leader, Chief Enyinnaya Abaribe, advised the committee to concentrate on how to move the party forward by resolving issues peacefully and uniting members of the party.

He said it was imperative for them to continue to keep the PDP in the eyes of the public as a party that would resolve Nigeria’s problem.

He said, “We are looking at one thing and that is the way forward. We believe that each and every member of the party here is committed to the party and therefore what we should look for is how we can resolve issues amicably, help in bringing everybody together and make sure that we continue to keep the PDP in the eyes of the public as a party that will resolve Nigeria’s problem.”

Recall that the party had directed its members to vote for Senator Ali Ndume from Borno South Senatorial District as the Senate President and Umar Bago from Chanchanga Federal Constituency of Niger State as the Speaker of the House of Representatives.

But the anointed candidates of the All Progressives Congress, Senator Ahmed Lawan from the Yobe North Senatorial District and Femi Gbajabiamila from Surulere 1 Federal Constituency of Lagos state emerged as Senate President and Speaker, respectively.

The PDP subsequently agreed to set up the committee to investigate what happened.

The committee chaired by Wabara with Prof. Wale Oladipo as the Secretary was inaugurated on July 10.

Other members of the committee are Yunana Iliya, Senator Ben Obi, Mr. Austin Opara, Senator Ibrahim Mantu, Senator Stella Omu, Margret Icheen, Hassan Hyatt and Senator Abdul Ningi.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]