YIAGA to train Zamfara lawmakers
Maiharaji Altine, Gusau

A Non-Governmental Organisation, YIAGA Africa Centre for Legislative Engagement, has concluded plans to organise training for Zamfara lawmakers being the state with the highest number of young legislators in the country.

The President of the organisation, Mr Ernest Ekire, who spoke during a courtesy call on the Speaker, Zamfara State House of Assembly, Nasiru Magarya, on Tuesday said the centre chose Zamfara because more than half of the legislators in the state were below the age of 40, while the Speaker of the House was the youngest in the county.

Ekire said his organisation would train the lawmakers in how best to perform their legislative functions, considering the fact that the centre was responsible for the passing of the ‘Not Too Young To Run’ bill by the National Assembly.

He stated, “We struggled for the passage of ‘Not Too Young To Run’ bill, as such, we must also ensure that the young legislators in Zamfara State and other states in the country performed creditability well so that people would understand why we are saying that young people should be given the chance to rule.

“Our aim is to strengthen young legislators. We are in Zamfara because Zamfara has produced the youngest Speaker in Nigeria. It gives us joy to have Speakers that are very young.”

Ekire further stated that their advocacy had really succeeded as there were currently young Speakers in Oyo, Plateau and Zamfara states, adding that, “part of our legislative activities is to give capacity building to the young legislators.”

According to him, the centre would be biased towards only four states

He stated that his organisation would organise similar training in Oyo and Plateau states immediately they finished with Zamfara because the Speakers of those two states were also young.

He concluded that the centre would also educate the public to understand the functions of legislators and also to let people understand that a lawmaker is not a philanthropist or a Father Christmas.

He called on the assembly to provide all the necessary assistance for the success of the capacity building programme that he said would commence soon.

Magarya thanked the centre for its commitment to ensuring the passage of ‘Not Too Young to Run Bill’ in the Natinal Assembly assuring him that the youth would not let Nigerians down,

“As the youngest Speaker in the county, I will do my best to perform well so that members of the public will see the difference between young and old age,” the Speaker.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]