Bello running government of deception —Ex-Kogi Gov, Idris Wada
Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja

Former Kogi State governor, Idris Wada, has accused the present governor of the state, Yahaya Bello of running a government of deception.

Wada was speaking on Friday on the sidelines of the State Congress of Peoples Democratic Party, held at the Confluence Stadium, Lokoja.

He said that the last three and half years of the present government in the state had unleashed untold hardship on the people through hunger and starvation occasioned by non-payment of workers salaries.

“This government lie about everything, they claim to be embarking on various projects, which cannot be found anywhere”

Captain Idris Wada, who is seeking a return to the Lugard House seat of Kogi State governor said that the failure of the present government was responsible for his second term bid.

READ ALSO: Horrible Lagos-Badagry road: Motorists’ nightmare, cash cow for miscreants

Wada, who lost the last election to late Prince Abukar Audu of the All Progressives Congress, a victory inherited by the incumbent, Bello, said that the present government had bastardised governance in the state.

“They have no clue and idea on how to move the state toward and enhance the standard of living of the people,they don’t know how to improve revenue coming in to the state, hence their inability to pay salaries, but for me I have been there, I know how to augment whatever is coming in from the Federation Account to pay salaries and even embarked on projects”.

According to him, “Most of the projects I started and completed such as the Kogi Hotel, Mega Park and others were meant to generate revenue but the present government abandoned them because they have no idea on how to put them to use”

He said that if given another chance, he would do everything possible to right all the wrongs of the present administration.

Contacted for a reaction, an aide to the Governor on Media, Publicity and Strategy, Kingsley Fanwo said that the former governor had revealed to the world that the issue of unpaid salaries did not start with the present administration but during his own tenure as the governor.

“We want to appreciate the former Governor once again for helping us tell the world that the salary issue didn’t start with the present administration. Capt Wada told the whole world that it started during his administration. Percentage payments to LGA workers also started during his administration to the extent that council workers got as low as 10 per cent of their salaries.”

He said that within two years, Governor Yahaya Bello did more physical projects than Capt Wada did in his entire four years.

“The honourable thing for the former Governor to do is to stop making unfounded allegations against the current administration.

“Governor Yahaya Bello has justified himself as the best governor to ever lead the State.” He added.