Leave Jonathan, Dickson out of your fight, Bayelsa tells aspirants
Samuel Nkemakolem, Yenagoa

The Bayelsa State Government has called on politicians seeking the governorship ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party in the state to leave former President Goodluck Jonathan and Governor Seriake Dickson out of their smear political campaigns.

It advised all the PDP aspirants to focus their attention on unveiling their development agenda for the state rather than deploying underhand tactics to create a rift between the two men for targeted political benefits.

The Special Adviser to the Governor on Media, Fidelis Soriwei, said this in a statement on Sunday while reacting to an opinion article sponsored by those he branded “desperate politicians”.

He decried the situation where politicians seeking to contest the governorship election sponsored parallel publications against the governor, the former President and their teams.

The statement said, “Our attention has been drawn to a scurrilous publication targeted at the former President. We have also seen the reaction from people suspected to be the former President’s publicists. We decry the situation where politicians seeking to contest the governorship election in the state sponsor parallel publications against the governor, his government and his team, and the former President, his family and his team, thereby deepening and taking advantage of disagreement and fault lines in the state.

“We have read the publication by the PDP Youth Network and we condemn any attack on the former President. Our suspicion from all preliminary enquiries is pointing in the direction of some desperate governorship aspirants who are doing everything possible to deepen division in the state especially between the governor and the former President for their own selfish advantage.

“They are doing this because they are aware of the meetings and consultations a few days ago, between the governor and the former President and the governor’s statement concerning the ambitions of some politicians.

“Our suspicion is that those desperate aspirants are sponsoring publications to take advantage of supposed disagreement between the two leaders of the PDP. The government urges the aspirants to leave the governor and the former President out of the governorship race and concentrate on what they would do and their agenda for the people of the state,” he said.

Soriwei, who stressed that the government had no hand in the opinion article which misrepresented parts of the historical facts of Bayelsa, appealed to all aides and supporters to devote their energy to the propagation of the benefitting policies and numerous programmes of the government.

He also advised the people of the state to be wary of the sinister antics of desperate politicians who had devised a strategy of division in the PDP as their political lifeline in the state.

Soriwei, who added that it was not in the character of the governor to make public any assistance to people in Bayelsa, the Ijaw nation and indeed the country, said that there was so much anger in the PDP because of the desperate activities of the desperate politicians.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]