Aggrieved Ondo APC members want state exco dissolved
Femi Makinde and Peter Dada

There is an indication that the move by the leadership of the All Progressives Congress in the South-West to reconcile aggrieved members of the Ondo State chapter of the party has not been successful.

A faction of the party led by a former deputy governor of the state, Alhaji Ali Olanusi, has accused the state governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, of failing to honour the agreement reached at the meeting.

The National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, a former APC National Chairman, Chief Bisi Akande, a former Governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba, and other party leaders recently held a meeting in Akure, the state capital, with Governor Akeredolu, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State and other APC leaders in Ondo State, in a bid to reconcile the warring factions of the party.

But Olanusi, who spoke at the meeting of the group in Akure, said Akeredolu had done nothing to bring everyone together.

He called for the dissolution of the state executive led by Mr Ade Adetimehin as part of ways to resolve the crisis.

He said, “We want to appreciate leaders of our party in the South-West for calling the meeting. What we discussed was that our party must move ahead in unity and progress.

“We are waiting for the national headquarters of the APC to do the needful because those leaders don’t have the power to dissolve party executives. We told them we have lost confidence in the Adetimehin-led state executives and they agreed with us.”

Also speaking, a former Commissioner for Regional Integration in Osun State, Mr Bola Ilori, said a window of peace had been opened with the peace meeting, urging both parties to keep to the agreement.

READ ALSO: Concern over Buhari administration’s penchant for disobeying court orders

But Adetimehin said the meeting with Tinubu and other leaders was fruitful.

He expressed confidence that the crisis rocking the party in the state would soon be resolved.

Adetimehin said this while Speaking with SUNDAY PUNCH in Lagos on Friday.

He said the APC leaders were concerned about the crisis adding that this was why many of them embraced the reconciliation move.

The APC chairman said, “The first leg of the reconciliation has started and very soon the crisis will be resolved and the APC in Ondo State will become stronger.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]