Prove we’ve looted Osun’s treasury, APC tells Adeleke
BOLA BAMIGBOLA

The Osun State branch of the All Progressives Congress on Saturday challenged Senator Ademola Adeleke to prove his allegations that the ruling APC has looted the state’s treasury.

Adeleke, who lost the September 2018 governorship election to Oyetola of the APC, had claimed in a statement that the governor “was the chief enabler of the most corrupt, inept and anti-people administration in the history of Osun State”.

Adeleke was reacting to comments attributed to the governor that he felt ridiculed contesting against the Peoples Democratic Party candidate for the election “who is best at dancing”.

In a statement on Saturday, spokesman for the APC in the state, Kunle Oyatomi, said, “But if you don’t do so within 14 days of this challenge (for Adeleke to prove his allegations), then the people of Osun and all responsible people in the country will regard you as unworthy of any serious attention.”

The statement added, “If Ademola (Adeleke) was informed and politically mature, he would be sensitive to the imperative of being truthful, factual and rational when making statements of such significance and consequence. We also expect him to have the honour and the discipline to provide proof of his allegations.

“The APC will not dignify Adeleke with a response to any of the silly allegations contained in his statement. We simply ask for the proof, which he is under obligation to provide. Otherwise we will be justified to equate him with a loafer and jester.”

READ ALSO: I’m not fighting with my partner, Yewande – Omobola (Oshisko Twins)

On Adeleke’s call for him and Oyetola “to walk the streets of Osun…and see who will get mobbed and stoned by the embittered citizens of our dear state”, the APC said, “It is pathetic how ignorant and poorly educated this dancing young man is. Has he forgotten that in Osun today, the PDP has less than 15 per cent of total electoral support?

“The APC has the governorship, the overwhelming majority in the House of Assembly (23 of 26), two of three senatorial seats and six of nine Federal Representatives.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]