Kogi ex-govs’ sons, Wada, Melaye berate Bello over perceived poor performance
Success Nwogu

Some governorship aspirants from the Peoples Democratic Party and the All Progressives Congress have accused the Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, of poor performance and failure to deliver dividends of democracy to the residents of the state.

In separate interviews, they alleged high insecurity in the state, poor educational and health care systems; non-payment of salaries to state workers and entitlements to pensioners as well as non-provision of infrastructure such as good road, electricity and water, to the residents.

The aspirants included Mohammed Audu, a son of a former governor of the state, late Abubakar Audu; Abubakar Ibrahim, the son of former Governor Ibrahim Idris; a former governor of the state, Capt Idris Wada (retd.) and the senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District, Dino Melaye.

Audu who is an aspirant under the APC, in an interview with our correspondent in Abuja on Friday, lamented that there was high insecurity and poverty in the state.

He said, “If Bello was doing well, I would not vie for the position. I would still be an APC member, I would probably seek other positions in governance, maybe at the federal level, to contribute my quota and I would support Bello to achieve success had it been he had sincere and genuine intentions for the state.

“I am vying for this position to bring back succour to the lives of the people in Kogi State. That means if he was doing well, there would have been no need for to me to vie for such a position because it must not be me and it must not be us, it could be anybody else but it must be measured strictly on merit.”

Ibrahim of the PDP alleged that residents of the state were undergoing hardship, adding that about 80 doctors and 120 lecturers had been sacked.

According to him, the situation in the state was very pathetic and required immediate remedial measures.

He said, “It is not something that I am proud to talk about because when you look at the facts on ground, it is not encouraging. When you look at the fact that our civil servants have not been paid ranging from eight to 40 months; when you look at the fact that our pensioners do not even know what pension is like, when you look at the fact that our universities have been turned to glorified senior secondary schools, and the education sector is not receiving the necessary attention; when you look at the fact that in the health sector, about 80 doctors were sent packing and no one has made any effort to replace or redeem them.”

Wada of the PDP said many projects he started which were at varying stage of completion had been abandoned by Bello, adding that hunger and poverty were prevailing in the state.

He said, “When I was governor of Kogi State, I added value to the state. I had several infrastructural projects which I did for the state. I did rural electrification for more than 400 communities. I built an 11-storey building here in Abuja, for revenue generating project for the state. I built a world-class park in Lokoja.

“But unfortunately, since I left, even projects that I had done to 90 per cent completion have been abandoned by the succeeding administration. The projects that were at 60 per cent are still where they were when I left office. You can feel prevailing hunger and poverty when you enter Kogi State”

Melaye said insecurity and backwardness had taken over the state, adding that they would defeat the governor if he (Bello) emerged as the APC candidate for the November election.

He said, “We are resolutely determined to chase the mediocre in Lugard House. We are too sophisticated to have Yahaya Bello as a governor. We are too intellectually mobile to have a classless character like Yahaya Bello as governor. He never won an election, he is a coronated governor.”

But Bello’s Chief Press Secretary, Mohammed Unoho, said the assessments of the aspirants of the governor’s administration were not factual. He stated that Bello had delivered dividends of democracy to the residents of the state.

He said specifically, Wada’s criticism of Bello’s performance was laughable.

He claimed that Bello’s administration had built the largest rice mill to be inaugurated in August which he said, would drastically reduce unemployment in the state.

Unoho said, “It is laughable that Wada, whose administration was marred by insecurity, underdevelopment and impoverishment could accuse the administration of Yahaya Bello of poor governance.

“Wada is only trying to conjure political relevance among his kith and kin today. It is on record that he was voted out owing to the fact that his administration could not initiate any project in four years while insecurity overran the entire geography of the state while he was governor.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]