North not well represented on agencies’ nominal rolls – Reps spokesman, Kalu
The Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Mr Benjamin Kalu, speaks with LEKE BAIYEWU on the Legislative Agenda, community policing among others

The House of Representatives recently launched its Legislative Agenda, which some analysts have described as ambitious. Do you think otherwise?

In the document and even in the Speaker’s (Mr Femi Gbajabiamila) speech, he mentioned that the agenda looks ambitious but achievable. Remember that the Speaker has been in the House for about 16 years; he has sufficient institutional memory, he has seen so many petitions that came from the public and many motions, some of which were moved by him, representing his people and Nigerians. And what motions, petitions, resolutions and the rest do is they open your eyes to the available needs and the analysis of such needs, and through resolutions proffer the solutions to them. Most of those in the leadership are not newcomers, they have been there for quite some time. A combination of all this and the ad hoc committee that was set up to do the research on what the Legislative Agenda should look like, came out with that wonderful document. I call the agenda ‘wonderful’ because they might look ambitious but not hyperbolic. And ambitions are achievable. The issue is the strategies out in place towards actualising them; the framework put in place to realise them.

Is the blueprint to achieve the agenda in place?

The answer is exemplified in what we are doing, reversing the budget calendar. This is one of our legislative agenda. We have started practising that so-called ambitious agenda, with what we are doing with the current (2020) budget. We have tasked ourselves. We insisted that we were going to work with the executive to be able to reverse the (budget) calendar to January-December. It is part of our goal and we have put a framework in place. The committees were inaugurated in time and were assigned to commence work immediately and they are meeting with the MDAs (ministries, departments and agencies). Initially, there was this story that the MDAs would not be able to attend to us but it is obvious now that the MDAs are coming every day. You will agree with me that we didn’t just wish that the budget was reverted to January-December and went to sleep. Nothing in that document is wishful thinking. We have a framework for achieving them. Are we going to achieve all of them before the end of four years? We may not, but we are going to lay a foundation that will take us closer to the place. Remember, Rome was not built in a day and the journey of a thousand miles begins with a step. We have put a step in place and we are going to make a reasonable impact going forward.

The House has listed the creation of community policing system for the country, which has remained controversial among lawmakers and members of the public. Does it mean that the chamber has taken a stand on it?

There will always be ‘for’ and ‘against’ on any issue; there is never going to be an issue that will come before the National Assembly or outside the Parliament that will not have the people who are proposing it and those who are opposing it. And that is the beauty of democracy; the ability to express one’s opinion. But the issue here is that democracy operates with the desire, will and interest of the people more than individual or personalised interests. The pendulum will always swing towards public interest for us to say that we are in a democracy. If the pendulum swings the other way, then that is an autocracy, where the will of the people is not put into perspective. The issue here is that there is insecurity in the land and efforts are being made to resolve it. There are so many aspects of resolving this particular issue. One is using the formal security solution, another is through sociological research to understand the root cause of some of these problems. Why do they pick arms? Why are they fighting? It was sociological analysis that led to the development of government policy on amnesty (for militants) and that solved the problem in the Niger Delta during the administration of (the late President Umaru) Yar’Adua. It was not the arms-against-arms strategy. It is the same thing many are advocating for insecurity in the North-East. Is it only military solution that is the best solution to what is happening in the North-East? Is it not high time we considered other options of understanding their agitation? I am sure that through the sociological process, it would be realised there is a need for jobs in that area of the country. There is a high unemployment rate in that area. I am a member of the (Committee on) Federal Character and I have gone through some of the nominal rolls of some of the Federal Government agencies. I am not from the North, I am from the South-East, but someone from the North is my brother just like someone from the South.

READ ALSO: LEDAP, others ask court to nullify Akpabio’s NNDC interim committee

What were your findings from the nominal rolls?

My discovery is that some of the states in the North are not well represented as expected on the nominal rolls of most of the agencies – Zamfara, Yobe, name them. I even noticed that in some agencies, Sokoto got between one and three, when other states in the North, especially from the North-Central, got much more. There is a way to balance this and the agitation will stop.

So, what is the House proposing on the country’s security architecture?

You will agree with me that when an Igbo or Efik man is posted to the North-East to go and police the activities there, he would find it hard to know his left from his right. This is the truth. Before he would integrate into society through the process of acculturation and socialisation, as propounded by social scientists, it would take him time. The language difference, cultural difference, religious difference. He would be like a deviant in that particular community. If a criminal event takes place there, he would find it difficult having access to relevant information, understanding the terrain and knowing who to approach and when to do that. But if there is a community policeman there who is from that community and knows every nook and cranny of that community and the people there, he would be able to know that ‘this one is a stranger.’ He would able to say, ‘This man who is driving a new car is a palm wine tapper; at what time did he start driving a new car?’ He would become suspicious. So, this is why people like us are leading the advocacy for community policing and I am in line with the Speaker and the leadership of the House who are advocating community policing. We need to safeguard our people. If we cannot have state police, at least we can start with community police and from there we will go up. I tell you, it will reduce insecurity so much.

The Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Otunba Gani Adams, has also raised the alarm over states that were creating security outfits under different guises and names. How do you react to this?

I have not read it but this is to tell you there is the need for it (community police). There are different state-armed groups such as the Bakassi group, livestock guard and other vigilante groups. Once they start springing up like that under different names, that is to tell you the need for community policing has arisen and there is a need also to formalise the framework so as to cut out illegality. If we don’t, there will be illegality and this will create further insecurity. But if we form a good legal framework now, it will secure us better and guard against undue duplication – every Tom, Dick and Harry starting security outfits in the name of the states.

How will the House implement the items on the agenda?

The House does not work with just writing letters, it operates through the instruments of motions, resolutions and bills. So, we are not going to go outside the expectation of the enabling provisions – Section 4 of the Constitution – that gave birth to us (National Assembly) and what we ought to do as specified in sections 88 and 89, which includes making laws for all the things that appear on the Exclusive List. Security happens to be one of them. We cannot draw up a legislative agenda for issues outside our boundaries. To achieve them, we will use motions, resolutions and bills.

The House has reeled out the timelines for certain processes towards the passage of the 2020 Appropriation Bill. Are you still on course?

Of course! Today is October 31 and we said we were stopping on November 5 and that day is sacrosanct. By that date, everybody must be done with their defence. And you have been following up with what is happening. You have been busy. Most of you (journalists) are even falling sick because activities here have been hectic but commendable. There is no idle committee anywhere, all hands have been on deck, working hard to make sure that we meet up.

Have the MDAs turned up for budget defence as expected?

I must commend the MDAs. It is like I was a prophet when I said we were going to be different from the Eighth Assembly where there was apathy against the legislative arm by the executive, thereby forming the reluctant, indifferent and nonchalant attitude of the MDAs towards the legislative arm. I prophesied and said in the Ninth Assembly, the MDAs would come. And they came in their numbers. I am privileged by virtue of my position as Chairman of Media and Public Affairs to enter into any committee that I want and check what is going on there, so I can answer questions well. I’m proud of the leadership of the committees. The Speaker also went round, that is to tell you how serious we are. The Speaker was sitting in committee meetings. I told Nigerians to have confidence in what we are doing. We came here to work, there is no playground anywhere in the National Assembly. I pity those who don’t take us seriously, because we came for serious business. The MDAs have done well by coming, they also presented documents before us; some were passed, some were criticised and we are working on them at the committee level after their presentations.

The National Assembly Service Commission is conducting a “regularisation” exercise, which is leading to some legislative aides being disqualified or downgraded with salary cuts. What are lawmakers doing to protect their interests?

It is part of the Legislative Agenda to take care of the welfare of the workers. They are the ones who give us wings to fly. We have not received any complaints yet. And as you know, it falls under the commission and the management. The National Assembly is sitting on a tripod – the Senate, the House and the Management. So we always try to allow each other to operate in their various autonomy except where it is absolutely necessary to look into issues. For now, we have not received any complaints. There is no petition anywhere. Nobody has complained to us. If it is properly laid before the House, I am sure that the House has a way of handling issues.

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Gospel artistes should touch lives, not chase money – Tope Van-Lare

Shortly before the annual recess in July, you said about 290 bills had been introduced within two months. Research led by a former Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof Attahiru Jega, however, discovered that while National Assembly is passing more bills, the number assented to by the President is much lower. Would the Parliament rather be more strategic on bills?

The statistics I gave were correct and the statistics from Jega’s committee were also correct, they are not disputed. The question Nigerians should ask is, ‘What makes the President not to sign those bills?’ It is not about the quantity of the bills or how much numbers we have. It is the quality of the job. The quality of the job on those bills, they were not well done. A punctuation mark in a document that has to do with the law could change the full interpretation and meaning of that particular line. The Eighth Assembly made some good laws and I am sure that most of those laws, the President did not refuse to sign them because they were bad laws. But some of them were ambiguous because of the way they were drafted, and they were returned (to the National Assembly) to be fine-tuned. So, what this Ninth Assembly is doing is to make sure that we work closely with the Nigerian Institute of Legislative and Democratic Studies. I have proposed about 28 bills and NILDS goes into the bills and analyse them and put their opinion – whether or not it suits the purpose for which we drafted them, or what needs to be added. These observations and recommendations would be captured during my debate and at the committee level, these would be included. So, when the bill leaves the House, it is properly packaged. You are going to see in this Ninth Assembly that there will be a reduction of what happened in the Eighth Assembly. A lot of them (bills) that will go to Mr President will come back signed.

Is the opinion of NILDS binding on bills?

The advice will go to the committee, the Speaker will see it and the sponsor too. They don’t look at all the bills, they choose bills relevant to the country, pick them and give their advice. At the first reading, I will incorporate it in my debate during second reading and pencil it down as the amendment that the committee should consider, so that by the time it leaves the committee and goes into the Committee of the Whole, it is complete and every interest has been captured. We are going to make sure that quality bills are delivered for the interest of national growth.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]