FG wrong to give Bello bailout after denying Wada same — Awoniyi, ex-Kogi deputy gov
A former Deputy Governor of Kogi State and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, Yomi Awoniyi, speaks with JOHN ALECHENU about the political situation in the state as well as the forthcoming governorship election

The Peoples Democratic Party has begun its campaign for the Kogi governorship election, how has it been?

Our campaign has just started. We started from Lokoja, the state capital. We will continue with visits to various local government areas.

The ruling All Progressives Congress has described your party’s governorship primary as rancorous and an indication that the party is in trouble. How would you react to that?

Our party is not in turmoil. Yes, our primary ended in a manner that left so much to be desired, for some. Towards the end of the primary at about 1am on September 4 – which incidentally is my birthday, sporadic gunfire started raining from one side of the stadium and we all had to scamper for safety.

This led to the disruption of our primary, which was later reconvened. Till now, not a word has been uttered by the authorities and the culprits have not been apprehended. All we have heard are conspiracy theories. The primary brought out Musa Wada but his emergence is being challenged by one of the aspirants who felt he was short-changed. It is his right to explore the possibility of getting the justice he wants but the party is also looking exploring at internal mechanisms to deal with the issue.

At the end of the day, we will resolve this issue and come back together as one. It is an election for the people of Kogi State and I know that the people of the state are sufficiently discerning. The question they will be asking themselves is whether they are better off today than they were four years ago. Of course, the answer is a resounding “no”. I know this would translate into votes for us on Election Day. The PDP will pull a lot of surprises. It will be like the story of David and Goliath.

My appeal to the Inspector General of Police is to ensure his men are deployed massively all over the state to forestall violence. This deployment should, at least be from November 15 right through the voting and collation days. On November 16, there should be zero vehicular movement during the period of voting. This would effectively thwart the machinations of people brought into the state to cause trouble.

READ ALSO: My face tattoo a marketing strategy– DJ Sose

The governor’s camp has said the people of the state will reject the PDP because successive PDP administrations did nothing to improve the lives of Kogi people. What do you think about that?

That is such an untrue statement. Our records are there. The PDP was in government for a period of 12 years; you can come to Kogi State and see what we did.

Our government was very prudent. At the state level, we received a total of N157bn in 47 months and spent N130bn to pay salaries because that is the economic lifeline of the state. The balance of N27bn was used to run government (ministries, departments and agencies) for over 47 months and we executed projects, including Youth Advancement Programme for Kogi, roads, schools, hospitals, and water and rural electrification projects. We used the N8bn received out of the N20bn bond money for projects like Lokoja Bus Terminal; Kogi Hotel, Lokoja, Kogi House, Abuja and over 50 other projects. Almost all have now been abandoned.

I am not sure the present government has matched what we did as far as projects were concerned. The people of Kogi State cannot be easily deceived; no one can pull wool over their eyes.

President Muhammadu Buhari recently asked the Senate to approve the issuance of about N10bn promissory note to Kogi State Government for projects done on behalf of the Federal Government. What do you think about that, especially coming at this time?

Ordinarily, all Kogi people should be celebrating the release of that money because it was not generated by this government. It was generated by the previous PDP governments. We had requested for the refund of this N10bn whilst in government but sadly, it was not paid. Now, this money has finally been paid; it is another windfall just like the N30bn bailout that was also paid recently. However, Kogi people have grave concerns as to how the funds would be utilised ahead of the November 16 election.

It is clear that this money will be deployed extensively towards the elections. N10bn in Kogi State at this time gives the government an unfair advantage ahead of the election. Don’t forget that the N30bn bailout that was approved and paid was also money that under the administration of Governor Idris Wada, we had worked out to use to pay outstanding salaries of civil servants. By the way, Kogi State was the first state to qualify for the bailout. I can tell you that because I was actively involved in the whole process.

Unfortunately, the APC government felt that releasing that money to us in 2015, close to the election, would give us an unfair advantage because we were going to pay outstanding salaries of civil servants and that would have been a major boost to us as a government. They denied us this money. Governor Wada told the Central Bank of Nigeria: ‘Please, don’t release the money to me, come and disburse it to the people of Kogi State’, but they said no. We didn’t intend to use it for the election.

What do you think about the recent removal of the former Deputy Governor, Chief Simon Achuba, from office?

It is an assault on the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. It is not only the people of Kogi that should be concerned, every Nigerian of good conscience should be mindful of this illegal removal of this deputy governor, whom I know very well. We all know a committee was set up; it came up with a report to say the allegations were not proved and what the constitution says is that, in a situation where the accusations are not proved, all activities towards impeachment should cease immediately.

There are so many anomalies. I am not a lawyer and people with sound legal minds have described this as an aberration. It’s so sad that people who swore to defend the constitution are assaulting it like this. I am happy that Chief Achuba has taken the matter to court and I know it can’t stand. I wish there were sanctions for those that violated the constitution the way it was done in Kogi State.

Do you have confidence that Independent National Electoral Commission will provide a level playing field for all parties involved in the election?

There is no other thing to have than hope. The rules and guidelines are there. If they are followed strictly, we should have a credible election. Inconclusiveness of an election is usually due to extraneous factors, principally violence and the ensuing disorder. One never knows the extent to which the government of the day would go to manipulate this process. We do not have the ability to manipulate this process; it is not our plan to do so. We intend to cast our votes with the firm hope that one, the card readers will work; two, the collation will be done properly and the results will be announced.

If it is done properly and the PDP loses, we will be the first to congratulate this government but if it is manipulated through the use of violence as it was done in the House of Assembly elections, it will leave a lot to be desired. I read a piece where a top official of INEC was talking about the possibility of inconclusive elections in Kogi and Bayelsa. I just hope the ground is not being prepared for elections in PDP strongholds to be declared inconclusive. In 2015 when we had the election that brought in Yahaya Bello, not a single life was lost throughout the campaign and the election because of the nature of the then governor, Wada, who abhors violence.

In the last election, about 10 people were killed; this is strange to us and unfortunately it’s becoming the norm. For us, like former President Goodluck Jonathan would say, our victory is not worth the life of any individual, this is the mantra we live with as we go into this election. But trust me, we will stand there and protect our votes. Kogi people need a new lease of life. Even some APC members know this.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]