APC national vice chairman insists on litigation against party
John Alechenu, Abuja

The National Chairman (North West) of the All Progressives Congress, Inuwa Abdulkadir, has said he would not be cowed by attempts to intimidate him into relinquishing his quest for justice and respect for the rule of law.

He said this while reacting to what he called a “purported meeting” of the National Working Committee and the decision taken therein.

Abdulkadir told Saturday PUNCH in a telephone interview in Abuja on Friday that he had responded formally to the statement announcing the NWC’s decision which he said was taken in spite of a subsisting legal tussle between him and the party.

The Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC had on Thursday recommended that Abdulkadir be expelled from the party over alleged anti-party activities.

In his response to the NWC statement, he said, “My attention was drawn to a public statement issued by the Acting National Publicity Secretary of my party, the All Progressives Congress, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, conveying a purported decision of the National Working Committee upholding disciplinary actions of Magajin Gari A Ward, Sokoto and the party’s Sokoto State Executive Committee against me, knowing that the basis of the purported decision has been the subject matter of an action filed in Suit SS/33/2019 pending at the Sokoto State High Court in which the party, National Chairman, Sokoto State Chairman endorsed as defendants and had entered appearances.”

The APC chief said he had reasons why he could not appear before the Otunba Niyi Adebayo-led panel. He said he had informed the panel that it would be unwise to proceed with further action on the matter since the issue was still in court.

Abdulkadir said, “In view of the same reason I gave earlier I’m still constrained to comment on the propriety of the purported meeting of the NWC and its decision.

“But as a professional and a responsible Nigerian citizen who is a stickler for rule of law, I will keep my patience for justice to prevail notwithstanding that the wheel of justice grinds slowly but certainly surely.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]