Buhari’s lawyer accuses petitioners’ data analyst of awarding Atiku victory margin not claimed in petition
Ade Adesomoju, Abuja

President Muhammadu Buhari’s lawyer, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), on Friday, accused Petitioners’ Witness 60, Joseph Gbenga, of issuing a report which conflicted with the claim of the petitioners in their petition challenging the outcome of the February 23, 2019 presidential election.

‎Olanipekun said the witness in his report awarded a margin of victory which the petitioners never claimed in their petition.

The lawyer also said, while the petitioners conceded defeat in Katsina State, the witness in his report of analysis of the results gave victory to the petitioners.

Gbenga, an Industrial Chemistry graduate from the University of Ilorin, who described himself as a Database Analyst and Designer, appeared before the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal in Abuja at the instance of the Peoples Democratic Party and its candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar.

Both Atiku and the PDP are in their joint petition challenging President Muhammadu Buhari’s victory at the February 23, 2019 presidential election.

Under cross-examination by the respondents’ lawyers, Gbenga said he was engaged by the petitioners to analyse the results of the presidential poll in 11 out of the 36 states of the federation.

Fielding questions from Buhari’s lawyer, Olanipekun, the witness said he was not aware the petitioners conceded defeat in eight out of the 11 states which their presidential election results he analysed in his report.

Asked, the witness said he was unmindful of who won or lost in the 11 states, in order to be able to do a professional and unbiased job.

He said he had not gone through the pleadings contained in the petitioners’ petition.

Olanipekun also asked, “But are you aware that you have given them a margin of win in 11 states that is more than what they are claiming in the 36 states excluding the FCT?”

Responding, the witness said, “I am not aware. I worked on documents provided for me.”

Asked, again, he said he was not aware that the petitioners conceded defeat in Katsina State.

“But by your analysis you gave them victory,” Buhari’s lawyer said.

Asked, the witness said he had been receiving trainings in data analysis but had not been certified.

He however said he had previously been engaged by the World Health Organisations, among other organisations.

He confirmed that he was engaged to do analysis of results of the election in Yobe State.

He said the Yobe State job was the first he ever took up in respect of elections before his engagement for the presidential election.

Fielding questions from the All Progressives Congress’ lawyer, Lateef Fagbemi (SAN), the witness said the job he did was not something any literate person could do as suggested by the lawyer.

The witness also said he was aware that hacking of websites was a global phenomenon.