Produce documents needed by Atiku, tribunal orders Yakubu, REC
Ade Adesomoju, Abuja

The five-man Presidential Election Petition Tribunal in Abuja on Wednesday ordered the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, and the commission’s Resident Electoral Commissioner in Zamfara State to produce electoral documents requested by the Peoples Democratic Party and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar.

The tribunal, led by Justice Mohammed Garba, gave the order after receiving complaints by the petitioners that INEC officials had refused to comply with the court’s subpoenas served on them for the production of the documents.

He ordered INEC officials to produce the documents in court on Thursday.

But the tribunal at the end of the proceedings, following a request by the petitioners’ lawyer, Chris Uche (SAN), fixed Friday as the next hearing day.

The Wednesday’s hearing was the ninth of the 10 days given to the petitioners to present their case.

The proceedings were adjourned Wednesday after the petitioners called nine additional witnesses, making a total of 58 they had called in nine days.

The PDP and Atiku, who are the petitioners challenging the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress at the February 23, 2019 poll, spoke through their lawyer, Chief Chris Uche (SAN).

Before the petitioners started calling their witnesses on Wednesday, Uche informed the tribunal that INEC officials had refused to release the requested documents to the petitioners despite the fact that the fees for the certification of the documents had been paid to the commission.

“We have made concerted efforts and we stated in the letters we wrote to them that we had it on good authority that they were instructed not to release the documents,” Uche said.

Accusing both INEC chairman and the Zamfara State REC of disobedience to the summons of the court, he said that upon his clients’ applications, the court issued two subpoenas on July 9, 2019 which had been served on the two officials.

“One was upon the chairman of INEC for the production of some documents. The subpoena was issued on July 9, 2019. The documents were paid for. The subpoena was served on the same date of July 9, 2019. It was to produce documents, not to testify.

“On the same July 9, another subpoena was issued to the Resident Electoral Commissioner, INEC, in Zamfara State, Gusau, in which we applied for all the Forms EC8A (polling unit result sheets), and they refused to release them to us.

“They have not been produced and we have not seen them in court. Neither have the persons on whom the subpoenas were issued in court. We seek your lordships’ intervention,” he said.

Responding, Justice Mohammed Garba, who leads the panel, noted that the subpoenas were not served on INEC officials as claimed by the petitioners’ lawyer, but that one was served on the chairman on July 15 and the other was served on the REC, Zamfara State, on July 12.

In his reaction, INEC’s lawyer, Yunus Usman (SAN), said he and members of his legal team met with the commission’s chairman, up till 11.30pm on Tuesday but he never made mention of any subpoena.

As for the Zamfara REC, Usman said he received a text message from her indicating that the documents requested by the petitioners had been certified but the petitioners had refused to come up to make the needed payment.

Other respondents’ lawyers, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN) for Buhari and Lateef Fagbemi (SAN) for the All Progressives Congress, said the petitioners ought to do more by liaising with INEC’s lead counsel and ought to have made the requests for the documents earlier than last week.

But responding, Uche said, “We have made so many efforts.

“We wrote a letter addressed to the chairman of INEC on April 15, 2019 and the letter was received the same date.

“An earlier one on the same subject matter was dated April 9, 2019 was received the same date.

“We also wrote an earlier one on the same subject-matter on March 12 and it was received the same date.”

In his comments before ruling, Justice Garba noted that the legal team representing INEC in the matter owed the court the duty to ensure that the court’s orders were obeyed by their clients.

“I have seen from the record of the court that the INEC chairman and the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Zamfara State, were duly served with subpoena issued on July 9, 2019, to produce documents named therein.

“The INEC chairman and the Resident Electoral Commissioner in Zamfara and the legal team representing them are under binding obligation to ensure that the orders contained in the subpoena are obeyed.”

‘INEC declared results from deserted town’

Among the petitioners’ witnesses, who later testified on Wednesday, was a ward collation agent for the PDP in the Awe Local Government Area of Nasarawa State, Aliyu Abdullahi, who told the tribunal that he rejected results from two polling units located in a town that had been deserted.

Testifying as the 52nd petitioners, Abdullahi produced results from the two polling units in Wuji Primary School and Kuba Sarkin Wuji in Awe LGA.

Abdullahi, while being cross-examined by respondents’ lawyers, told the tribunal the election in Awe Local Government Area was conducted “in substantial compliance with INEC guidelines” except for the two polling units.

Buhari’s lawyer drew the witness’ attention to a part of his written statement where he said the two polling units were not in existence.

Asked to clarify his claim, he said, “The polling units still remained as polling units in Wuji. As of that time, there was nobody there. Results were produced in these polling units.”

Asked to give the figures of the results from the polling units, he said, “I did not collate it. That is why I can’t remember. I refused it.”

Attempt by the petitioners’ lawyer, Pius Akubo (SAN), to ask a question to enable the witness to clarify the seeming contradiction in his claim about the existence or otherwise of the two disputed polling units was blocked by the tribunal.

Atiku’s witness weeps

Petitioners’ Witness 57, Mohammed Yahaya, shed tears while testifying on Wednesday.

Mohammed who served as the PDP agent for Aboto Ward in the Dekina Local Government Area of Kogi State, during the election, shed tears under cross-examination by Buhari’s lawyer, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), saying lives of people were being toyed with over politics.

Earlier, he had claimed that two persons were shot by the All Progressives Congress thugs who invaded a polling unit in his ward on the day of the election.

He said the two victims were rushed to hospital but one of them died later in April.

He said he witnessed violence in the polling units where he voted and the others he visited during the election.

The witness insisted that the Aboto Ward had always been the stronghold of the PDP.

He said the PDP would have won in the ward had there been no violence in the ward.

He broke down in tears when Olanipekun repeated the question to extract a more satisfactory answer.

“You people are just playing politics with peoples’ lives. People died,” he said.

It took about five minutes for the head of the five-man panel, Justice Garba, to pacify him.

Reacting to the development, Olanipekun said, “We are used to people like him. My question had nothing to do with death.”

Under cross-examination by the APC’s lawyer, the witness claimed that the APC won in the 2015 elections in the ward.

“It may interest you to know that I was in the APC during the election he is talking about. Had there been no violence, the PDP would have won this election.”

‘Zero votes allocated to PDP in Chibok’

Petitioners’ Witness 54, Dr Alhassan Anase, who served as a collation agent for the Peoples Democratic Party in the Chibok Local Government Area of Borno State, told the tribunal that zero vote was allocated to his party during the election.

Under cross-examination by lawyers representing the respondents to the petitioners, Manaseh alleged that “a lot of infraction and anomalies took place during the election”.

The 54th petitioners’ witness, who said he voted at the Garu Polling Unit 005 in Chibok during the election, said, “Zero vote was allocated to the PDP and the rest of the votes to the APC” in some of the polling units.

He said he refused to sign Form E8C, the local government result sheets for Chibok LGA because of the alleged irregularities.

Questioned about his claim that he voted during the election, Manaseh, a veterinary doctor, said he voted at Garu Unit 005 in Chibok.

Asked by the APC’s lawyer why he urged the tribunal in his statement to cancel the results in the entire 95 polling units in the LGA when his complaints were only in respect of the elections in 40, he said, “I did not say the results in the entire local government area should be cancelled, but only in the polling units where card readers were not used.”

PDP’s witness contradicts his party’s claim in Katsina

Petitioners’ Witness 55, Lawal Danja, who served as the PDP agent in the Danja Local Government Area of Katsina State, appeared confused on Wednesday as he said he disagreed with the votes which the petitioners claimed to have obtained from INEC’s server for Katsina State.

Buhari’s lawyer, Dayo Akinlaja (SAN), asked, “Does it occur to you that the petitioners that you are representing claimed they won the election by virtue of their own set of results in Katsina State? Are you aware?”

The witness said, “I am aware.”

Asked if he agreed with the results claimed by his party, the witness said, “I did not even agree with the local government results not not talk of the state results.”

‘I’m not into partisan politics but my party is PDP’

The 53rd petitioners’ witness, Sani Abdul, caused a roar of laughter in the courtroom while responding to questions at the Wednesday’s proceedings.

Abdul said he was the collation agent for the PDP in the Gaya Local Government Area of Kano State during the February 23, 2019 presidential election.

Under cross-examination by the APC’s lawyer, Abdul was asked how long he had been in politics.

Responding, the witness said, “I am not into partisan politics.”

But asked which party he belonged to, he said, “PDP”.

Everyone in the courtroom, including members of the bench and the bar, burst into laughter following his response to the second leg of the question.

Earlier, Abdul had said that as the PDP’s local government collation agent, he received complaints of manipulation of votes, changing of results and re-writing of results by INEC officials in connivance with security officials from different parts of the local government during the poll.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]