APC groups kick as Gbajabiamila appoints APGA BOT member as aide
Tony Okafor, Awka

South-East groups of the All Progressives Congress have condemned the appointment of a chieftain of the All Progressive Grand Alliance in Anambra State, Anayo Nnebe, as an aide to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila.

In separate statements by the Conference of APC State Publicity Secretaries and South-East APC Young Progressives Forum in Awka, Anambra State on Wednesday, the groups described the appointment as “an affront” to his party’s loyalists in the area.

“This is empowering APC’s enemies to kill us in the zone,” they stated.

They asked the APC hierarchy to intervene and prevail on the Speaker to nullify the appointment “in the interest and growth of the party.”

The APC’s publicists’ position, made available to our Correspondent by the Anambra State publicity secretary of the party, Okelo Madukaife, rejected the appointment of Nnebe in its totality.

“We reject the appointment of Anayo Nnebe as Special Assistant (South East) to the Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila.

“Nnebe is … opposition to APC in Anambra State, the South-East zone and Nigeria in general.

“Political positions in the ruling party should not serve to rehabilitate oppositions…

“Registering in future with APC is not even an incentive because the sun must first shine on those standing before (it shines on) those kneeling.

“Our understanding of this move is that the South-West caucus of APC, from which Gbajabiamila hails, is undoing APC in the South East, and it is highly objectionable.

“The Senate President made a similar error and promptly corrected it when issues were raised, and there ought to be enough deterrence flowing from there.”

The South-East APC Young Peoples Forum, led by Otimkpu Paschal, also frowned at Nnebe’s appointment.

It condemned what it called the attitude of APC leaders in empowering the “enemies of the party” against qualified men and women in the party.

The group enjoined Gbajabiamila to reverse the appointment.

It added, “This is a great disservice to party men and women who staked their integrity and name for this party.”

“Where is the reward for loyalty for this party?” the group asked.