Shi’ite rally: IG restricts protest to Unity Fountain
Adelani Adepegba, Abuja

The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has restricted all forms of protests within the Federal Capital Territory to the Unity Fountain, Central Business District, Abuja.

This, he said, was to ensure safety and security of life and property as well as a coordinated handling of protests in the FCT.

The development, The PUNCH learnt, was not unconnected with the daily procession and protests by the members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, which led to a violent confrontation between the Shi’ite members and policemen at the National Assembly last week.

Two policemen were shot while seven others sustained injuries during the incident.

The Force spokesman, DCP Frank Mba, said in a statement in Abuja on Wednesday that by the directive, intending protesters were expected to steer clear of all critical national infrastructure, especially the “Three Arms Zone”.

It said, “The restriction is sequel to series of protests, such as the one on October 30, 2018, in various parts of Abuja, which brought the capital city to a standstill, crumbling economic activities and inflicting untold hardship on motorists and the general public.

“A similar protest in the same month led to the setting ablaze of a police patrol vehicle at Banex Plaza, Abuja, traumatizing innocent citizens.

“This year, on July 9, another protest at the National Assembly, Abuja, led to an unprovoked attack on police officers on legitimate national assignment, injuring nine of them and causing massive damage to public and private property.”

While noting the rights of the citizens to protests and peaceful assembly, Mba argued that the rights were not absolute, adding that “it is within the prerogative of the police to regulate activities of protesters who have the tendency to cause damage to life and property.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]