EFCC submits Kwara top officials’ names to Immigration
Tunde Oyekola

The Ilorin Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on Wednesday submitted the particulars of individuals on its watch list and under investigations in Kwara State to the state command Nigerian Immigration Service.

The Zonal Head of the Commission, Mr Isyaku Sharu, said this when he received the state Comptroller of NIS, Edith Onymenam, who led other senior officers on a courtesy visit to his office.

Although, Sharu refused to mention the names of the affected officials, our correspondent gathered that no fewer than five officials who served in the administration were on the radar of the commission.

It was gathered that some of those whose names were submitted had at one time or another been invited by the EFCC towards the tail end of the tenure of the administration between April and May 2019.

Sharu said the need to give the NIS the particulars of the personalities under EFCC’s investigation became necessary following the intelligence that some highly-placed individuals under investigation in the state had procured forged police reports with which they plan to apply for another passports to escape from the country.

He said, “Information at the disposal of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission in Ilorin reveals that these highly placed individuals are planning to use forged police reports to re-apply for another passports to flee the country in other to escape prosecution and justice.

“The commission urges you to use your good offices to place these individuals under strict surveillance.”

“Your coming today is a welcome development. As stipulated in EFCC Establishment Act, the Nigerian Immigration Service is a member of the commission. We can’t do anything without you. If we don’t collaborate with your office, we can’t get it right.”

READ ALSO: LASG asks illegal structure owners, traders to vacate Badagry road

In her remarks, Onymenam commended the anti-graft body for the existing cordial relationship between the two agencies.

“I am delighted to be here this morning. We have an existing relationship already. I am here to see that the relationship is well cemented. I want your support. My office will also give you support as well. If there is anything you want from my office, I will equally do it,” she said.

Reacting to the EFCC watch list, Onymenam said there was no cause for alarm, assuring her host that the suspects would not get another passport.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]