Reps threaten takeover of Edo Assembly over inauguration dispute…order police, DSS to seal off premises
Leke Baiyewu and Sola Shittu

The House of Representatives has directed the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu; and the Director General of the Department of State Services, Yusuf Bichi, to seal off the Edo State House of Assembly until a proper inauguration is conducted.

The House also asked Governor Godwin Obaseki to issue a fresh proclamation of the Seventh Assembly within one week, which must be published by the media.

These are part of the recommendations by an ad hoc committee set up by the House to investigate the crisis in the Assembly. The panel’s report was considered and adopted at the plenary session on Wednesday.

The state Assembly was inaugurated in a controversial circumstance on June 17, 2019, when nine out of the 24 members-elect during inauguration elected Frank Okiye as the Speaker at past 9pm.

The House, acting on a motion moved by a member from Edo State, Julius Ihonvbere, last week had set up the Abdurazak Namdas-led panel to probe the crisis and recommend actions to be taken by the federal parliament.

In the report, the panel, among others, recommended, “That the Governor of Edo State, Mr Godwin Obaseki, in the interest of peaceful coexistence of the state, should issue a fresh proclamation within one week in line with Section 105(3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), stating the date, time and venue (of the inauguration), and publish in any national daily and television station.

“That all actions taken by the 7th Assembly members should be declared null and void pending proper inauguration.

“That all members of the Edo State House of Assembly, including those who have been inaugurated and those who have not been inaugurated, should dissolve their factions in the interest of peace and stability of the House, with the view to moving the state forward.”

It also recommended that the Inspector General of Police and the Director General, Department of State Services, should shut down the Edo State House of Assembly and provide adequate security to allay fears of intimidation and threat as alleged by members-elect.

The House threatened that the National Assembly would take over the affairs of the state legislature if the resolutions were not complied with.

Meanwhile, the Edo State House of Assembly on Wednesday rejected moves by the House of Representatives to disrupt activities in its chamber, saying it was in violation of a subsisting court order just as the Edo Peoples Democratic Party asked the APC to stop what it described as an unnecessary show of power.

The Speaker of the House, Frank Okiye, in a statement, called on the Inspector General of Police, the Director of Department of State Services and the National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress to respect a subsisting court order restraining them from interfering in the activities of Edo House of Assembly.

“It has come to our knowledge that the ad-hoc committee of the House of Representatives investigating issues surrounding the inauguration of the Edo State House of Assembly has recommended that the Inspector General of Police and Department of State Services should seal off the Edo Assembly.

“Considering what we came to know in the course of this process, the recommendation of the ad-hoc committee does not come to us as a surprise. For example, the plane marked 5N FCT, which brought the committee members to Benin City, was paid for by the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who is a major party in the disagreement.

READ ALSO: Coalition marches to Villa over insecurity, killings

“Also, the younger brother to the National Chairman, Seid Oshiomhole, in a recent leaked audio conversation, revealed the underhand dealings in Abuja regarding the matter. He stated that Oshiomhole and his proxies had been having meetings with the committee members and other actors on the issue in Abuja and doling out money to ensure the issue goes in their favour.”

He said the National Assembly must take note that they are expected to act as agents of peace and not merchants of crisis.

Meanwhile, the Edo PDP has described as sad and unpleasant the unending crisis in the APC-controlled Edo State House of Assembly.

Chairman of the Edo PDP, Chief Dan Orbih, in a statement said the unnecessary show of power was not in the interest of the state.

“We call on all concerned in the assembly crisis to stop this ego trip and blame game and face the serious business of good governance in the interest of the people. Edo State is too sophisticated to be used as political guinea pig of supremacy between party and government strength.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]