Ekiti PDP moves to reposition ahead gov poll
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ekiti State, Chief Gboyega Oguntuwase, said on Monday that the party had started retraining of members’ minds with a view to repositioning ahead of future polls.

Oguntuwase, who bemoaned indiscipline and lack of respect for party supremacy in the PDP at the state and national levels, said concerted efforts must be made to re-orientate members and infuse discipline.

Speaking in Ado Ekiti on Monday, he gave assurance that the party leadership would do everything possible to ensure the party no longer fell into the same pit that resulted in its being ousted from power in 2018.

“We are going to ensure that primary elections are conducted and supervised with open minds and fear of God.

“We are equally going to make sure that those who are going to be our future candidates are not going to be sellouts. We will ensure that our candidates will not be people that we will put in positions of trust and who will in turn abandon the party.

“Without retraining of minds, there can’t be repositioning. There is the issue of discipline and as well acceptance of party’s supremacy. Failure in some quarters to honour party supremacy is one of the things that have endangered the PDP.”

Oguntuwase, who said abandonment of the party by some members elected into public offices in the state in the recent past was a threat to the party, also condemned how PDP members in the 9th House of Representatives betrayed the party by colluding with APC against party’s interest.

He, however, said discipline and party supremacy were crucial in the bid to reposition the party in the state and at the national level, adding that, “Ekiti PDP State Working Committee is irrevocably committed to repositioning the party” ahead of the 2022 governorship, saying the first step to that was retraining of mind of members.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]