Oyetola chides Adeleke over comment on Osun gov poll
Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo

The Osun State Governor, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola, on Tuesday dismissed claims by the Adeleke’s family that the Peoples Democratic Party’s candidate, Ademola Adeleke, won the last governorship election in the state.

The governor, who said the assertion was borne out of ignorance, was reacting to a statement by Dr Deji Adeleke, the elder brother of Ademola, claiming that his brother won the election but was denied victory by the ‘power that be in the ruling party.’

He spoke when a delegation of Social Democratic Party leaders visited him in his office to congratulate him on his victory at the Supreme Court.

Oyetola said, “I was surprised to hear Dr Deji Adeleke saying that his brother won the governorship election. I know he must have spoken out of ignorance. The law is clear and there is no magic to it.

“It is clear that when the margin between the two leading contestants is less than the number of votes not counted, there must be a rerun. It is as simple as that.

“We should put the records straight when we talk about technicality in law. We should not forget that law itself is technical. One cannot build something on nothing, so, if it is technical, so be it.”

Oyetola maintained that the judgment was a reflection of the people’s will; otherwise, his administration would not have been enjoying the confidence of the people, since he assumed office.

Commending SDP leaders and members for their solidarity, love and support that led to his victory during last September poll, Oyetola restated his readiness to run an all-inclusive and participatory government, saying his government would continue to put the welfare of the people at the front burner.

Speaking earlier, the leader of the SDP team, Dr Yemi Farounbi, congratulated Oyetola and the APC family, adding that the victory at the apex court was a testimony to the fact that the governor won the poll.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]