Delta North: Supreme Court upholds Nwaoboshi ‘s election
Ade Adesomoju, Abuja

The Supreme Court, on Tuesday, upheld the election of Delta North Senator, Peter Nwaoboshi.

A five-man panel of the apex court, led by Justice Inyang Okoro, in a unanimous judgment, struck out the appeal filed by Ned Nwoko to challenge the senator’s election on the grounds of lack of jurisdiction.

But it also held that Nwaoboshi was the winner of the Peoples Democratic Party’s primary election held on October 2, 2018, and not Ned Nwoko who filed the appeal.

The apex court added that Nwaoboshi was the candidate of the party in the February 23, 2019 poll.

It held that the originating summons filed by Nwoko on December 11, 2018, at the Federal High Court in Abuja was incompetent and that the trial court judge was therefore in error as the incompetent process had robbed the court of its jurisdiction.

Nwoko had appealed against the May 30, 2019, judgment of the Abuja Division of the Court of Appeal which had nullified the April 3, 2019 verdict of the Federal High Court, Abuja which sacked Senator Peter Nwaoboshi as the PDP’s senator-elect for the Delta North Senatorial seat.

The Federal High Court in Abuja had, by its said judgment, declared Ned Nwoko as the true candidate of the PDP for the February 23, 2019 National Assembly election.

A three-man panel of the Court of Appeal, in a unanimous judgment, held that the Federal High Court in Abuja’s judgment was a nullity as the court lacked jurisdiction to have heard the case filed by Nwoko.

Justice Mohammed Idris, in the lead judgment of the panel, held that the suit by Nwoko was statute-barred and that Justice Ahmed Mohammed of the Federal High Court, Abuja, ought not to have heard the case in the first place.

The Supreme Court, on Tuesday, upheld the decision of the Court of Appeal Justice Okoro, in the lead judgment of the apex court, held that the originating summons filed before the Federal High Court was incompetent.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]