Ex-naval chief joins Kogi gov race, seeks better security
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja

A former Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Jibrin Usman, on Monday obtained the Expression of Interest and Nomination forms for the August 29 Kogi governorship primary of the All Progressives Congress.

He received the forms from the APC National Organising Secretary, Emma Ibediro, at the national secretariat of the party in Abuja after paying the mandatory N22.5m.

Usman, who later addressed journalists, said he was on a rescue mission in kogi State.

He said, “There is an urgent need for a change in Kogi. We can’t continue with the way we started about three and a half years ago. I’m here to rescue Kogi from the menace of maladministration. Kogi at the moment is facing serious challenges.

“The state needs the intervention of someone who is courageous and has the political will to confront challenges. We have leadership failure in Kogi.”

Usman alleged that the incumbent governor, Yahya Bello, had unleashed untold hardship on the people of the state, especially civil servants, whom he claimed were owed several months of salaries.

He accused the governor of arming youths to unleash terror on perceived opponents in the state.

“Kogi is held hostage and is on life support. The state needs a leader who has the sense of urgency, competence, who is visionary and has the understanding of the past and can relate it with the future.

“Governor Yahya Bello can’t tell us all is well in Kogi, all is not well and he should not seek reelection.”

Usman debunked insinuation that he had concluded the plot to leave the APC if he failed to get the governorship ticket.

He urged Nigerians to supply reliable information to security agencies so as to aid them in the fight against insurgency and other security challenges.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]