We won’t be pressured to decide on Kogi indirect primary – APC
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja

The All Progressives Congress has said it will not be pressured by stakeholders in Kogi State on the mode of voting to be adopted for the August 29 governorship primary.

The National Working Committee had announced that it would adopt the indirect primary for the Kogi primary.

Recall that some governorship aspirants under the aegis of Kogi State APC Governorship Aspirants Forum had on Monday protested against the decision.

They claimed the party did not consult widely with stakeholders before arriving at the decision.

In a petition addressed to the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, the aggrieved members warned that the decision would have negative consequences on the fortunes of the party in the state.

However, on Wednesday, the party in a statement acknowledged receiving petitions from stakeholders in Kogi in reaction to the indirect primary.

But on Thursday, about 37 governorship aspirants stormed the National Secretariat of the party to declare support for the adoption of indirect primary.

But speaking with our correspondent on Saturday, the APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, said the party won’t be pressured into taking any decision on the petitions, which he said, were already receiving attention.

When asked if the party would cave in to pressure to reverse itself, he said, “We have made a statement on that and that should suffice. We won’t be rushed into taking a decision.

“We will make no further statements on that. Whatever decision the party would make on the issues at hand would be communicated to the public at the appropriate time.”

In the earlier statement issued, the APC had promised to look at the merit of the petitions in line with the party’s constitution and come out with a position in due course.

The statement said, “The NWC, therefore, thanks the aggrieved APC stakeholders in Kogi State for the peaceful manner in which they have conducted themselves so far and their trust in the NWC to do the right thing.

READ ALSO: I’ve suspended battle with Elumelu – Chinda

“It needs restating that the APC constitution which was reemphasised by a decision of the National Executive Committee provides for three modes of primaries to elect party candidates – Indirect, Direct Primaries and consensus – depending on the peculiarities of the state and preferences of the stakeholders in respective elections.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]