Electoral offenders should be treated like terrorists – KOWA Party
Friday Olokor, Abuja

The KOWA Party has said that any person who breaches the Electoral Act and partakes in electoral violence should be treated like a terrorist.

The party also demanded the establishment of an Electoral Offences Commission/Tribunal, which should be charged with the prosecution of those it described as “electoral armed robbers” and other people involved in all forms of electoral malpractice.

The Acting National Chairman of KOWA Party, Mark Adebayo, recommended these punitive measures in an interview with our correspondent.

He said, “Anybody involved in electoral violence should not be treated like an armed robber. He should be tried like a terrorist. Electoral offenders, in this case, include those who buy or sell votes, unleash armed thugs on voters, use their authority and positions as president, governor, minister or local government chairman to misuse the security agencies for the purposes of intimidating voters.

“The list also includes those who use their positions and authority to suppress, repress and oppress their opponents. If you engage in mass killing of innocent Nigerians, if you go about committing arson and making life horrendous for innocent Nigerians in the name of seeking elective positions, a system must be put in place that will ensure that you are locked away for the rest of your life with hard labour and without the possibility of a parole.

“Electoral violence and sundry criminalities rob our democracy of its legitimacy. There are many undeserving politicians in high elective positions in the country today who couldn’t have won anything if the country’s electoral system had not been so brazenly bastardised.

“Until we begin to operate a system that does not guarantee electoral victory for those who steal or buy votes as a deliberate policy of state, we shall continue to elect social miscreants, who have developed an insatiable appetite for looting and nihilistic political tendencies, into power.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]