Kaduna Assembly rejects commissioner-nominee for criticising El-Rufai
Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna

The Kaduna State House of Assembly has rejected Aliyu Abubakar, one of the commissioners nominated by the state Governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai.

Abubakar was reportedly rejected for criticising the governor.

According to the Speaker, Aminu Shagali, who presided over the screening of commissioner-nominees, the nominee’s rejection followed his criticism of the el-Rufai’s policy in 2017 on his Facebook handle.

The Speaker quoted the nominee to have said, “In your (nominee’s) Facebook account, you said there was nothing like making Kaduna State great again and that it was a deceptive cliche used by politicians to deceive the masses.”

The Speaker added, “You also said El-Rufai must learn to tackle issues with human face, and said you are an advocate of change that goes to the root.

“You also said in the same post, stop comparing me with El-Rufai who thinks he is more intelligent than intelligence itself.

“You, however, said you were a humble human being that believed that all that glittered was not gold; there was nothing authoritarian in insisting on the truth and never speak truth”

The House Committee Chairman on Media and Public Affairs, Alhaji Tanimu Musa, told journalists shortly after plenary session that el-Rufai’s nominee was rejected following his criticism of the current All Progressives Congress administration in the state.

READ ALSO: External debt servicing gulps $357.26m in three months

“The evil that men do live after them, Jaafaru has been a critic of this administration on social media,” he said, adding, “why did he want to work with the governor.”

The House unanimously rejected the nominee.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]