Our witnesses were attacked, Atiku, PDP tell tribunal
Ade Adesomoju, Abuja

Proceedings at the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal in Abuja were halted on Friday following the claim by the Peoples Democratic Party and its presidential candidate in the February 23, 2019 poll, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, that their witnesses scheduled to testify were attacked on their way from Zamfara.

Atiku and the PDP, who are challenging the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress at the poll, spoke through their lawyers, who informed the tribunal that the witnesses were waylaid by “armed men” on their way from Zamfara State.

The petitioners had called eight witnesses on Friday, making 36 witnesses presented so far by the petitioners. The tribunal was to go on its routine one-hour break at about 1pm when one of the petitioners’ senior lawyers, Chris Uche (SAN), broke the news.

He said, “I am not sure if the next set of witnesses would be available. We got information that they were waylaid by armed men while on their way from Zamfara State to Abuja.”

The lead counsel for the petitioners, Dr Livy Uzoukwu (SAN), who walked into the courtroom while Uche was addressing the bench also corroborated the claim.

He said, “I was the one that was called on the phone. I kept having the repeated calls and had to go out to answer.

“I was told that while the witnesses were on their way from Zamfara State, they were attacked by armed men. Some of them jumped into the bush and some of them were gravely injured.

“Up till now, they are still looking for some of them in the bush.”

He therefore noted that there would be no need for the sitting to resume at the end of the one-hour break.

The number of persons involved in the incident and the exact location of the attack were not given by the lawyers.

He requested that the matter be adjourned till Monday.

The lawyers representing the respondents to the petition – the Independent National Electoral Commission, with its legal team led by Yunus Usman (SAN), Buhari, whose legal team was led by Yusuf Ali (SAN) and the APC, whose team was led by Lateef Fagbemi (SAN), did not oppose the request for adjournment.

Buhari’s lawyer, Ali, specifically expressed sympathy with the petitioners’ side.

Zamfara is one of the 11 states where the petitioners are challenging the outcome of the February 23 poll.

The tribunal adjourned till Monday.

Among the petitioners’ witnesses who earlier testified on Friday was Oluwafemi Ogunrinde, who said he served as an assistant presiding officer during the election.

He informed the tribunal that he personally transmitted the results from his polling unit to INEC’s server after collation was completed.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]