Court affirms Sowore, deputy’s suspension by AAC
Ade Adesomoju, Abuja

The Federal High Court in Abuja on Friday validated the suspension of Omoyele Sowore as the national chairman of the African Action Congress, and Malcom Fabiyi as the deputy national chairman.

Delivering judgment, Justice Inyang Ekwo, also affirmed the appointment of Dr Leonard Nzewa as the acting national chairman of the party.

The judge granted all the prayers contained in the suit which was instituted by Nzewa seeking the validation of the decision of the party’s National Executive Committee to suspend Sowore and Fabiyi for six months at its meeting held on March 27, 2019.

Sowore, the publisher of online news medium, Sahara Reporters, and the party’s presidential candidate for the February 23, 2019 election, was suspended along with Fabiyi and others for allegedly engaging in anti-party activities.

The judge, in dismissing Sowore and Fabiyi’s objection to the suit, held that they failed to personally depose to the counter-affidavit filed against the suit.

The judge held that the deposition made on their behalf by Dr John Adeoye “goes to nought” as he was not a party to the suit.

The judge ruled, “It is my opinion that Dr John Adeoye is not a party in this case and cannot give evidence.

“I find that the evidence of Dr John Adeoye goes to nought.”

Noting that it was an elementary principle of law that only a party to a case could depose to affidavit evidence in defence of his or her case, the judge ruled that the reasons given by Sowore and his deputy for their inability to depose to the affidavit evidence were untenable.

Adeoye, who deposed to the counter-affidavit, argued that both Sowore and Fabiyi were unable to depose to the counter-affidavit personally because they were outside the country when the suit was filed.

But the judge ruled that the reasons given by the defendants showed that they did not take the case seriously.

“Anybody who does not take a suit instituted against him seriously must prepare to bear the brunt of his carelessness,” the judge ruled.

“I find that the evidence of the plaintiff has not been challenged or controverted, I thereby ascribe probative value to it,” the judge ruled.

Reacting to our correspondent’s inquiry, Sowore said in a message on Friday, “We’ve commenced the process of appeal already. The judgment won’t stand.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]