Insecurity: Threats of war by ethnic, religious groups over government’s (in)action
Utterances and activities of some ethnic groups and opinion leaders on government’s handling of insecurity and other issues are aggravating tension in the land, FEMI MAKINDE reports

The wanton killings by armed herdsmen, bandits, kidnappers and Boko Haram insurgents are a constant reminder that Nigeria is sitting on a tinderbox. And there are apprehensions the situation may lead to disintegration.

There is insecurity in almost every region of the country. The Boko Haram insurgents killing and maiming in the North-East; bandits and kidnappers operating in the North-West and killer herdsmen are wrecking havoc in the North-Central. The same herders have turned parts of the South-West into an unsafe place; they also operate in the South-East and the South-South.

Sadly, the massive killings being perpetrated daily by the herders have dwarfed the deadly activities of the Boko Haram. Although the Boko Haram insurgents have been dislodged from some local government areas they occupied before President Muhammadu Buhari took over power in 2015, they have now shifted their focus to military formations, wasting lives and resources.

Scores of lives were being wasted on a daily basis mostly in the North-Central states such as Benue, Plateau, Taraba and Nasarawa in January 2018. The Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, had to lead traditional rulers, top politicians and representatives of other stakeholders on a visit to President Buhari in the Aso Rock to register their displeasure about the killings.

The President, while responding to the complaints of the delegation had said, “Your Excellency, the governor (Ortom), and all the leaders here, I am appealing to you to try to restrain your people. I assure you that the police, the Department of State Security and other security agencies had been directed to ensure that all those behind the mayhem get punished. I ask you in the name of God to accommodate your countrymen. You can also be assured that I am just as worried, and concerned (as you) about the situation.”

The President later claimed that Muammar Gaddafi’s fighters, who he said escaped with sophisticated arms, were fighting for the Boko Haram and some masquerading as herdsmen.

But some analysts believe that the apparent lack of political will to address the herdsmen’s killings by the Buhari administration has emboldened the killers. They all agree that the situation, if left unchecked, could destabilise the nation.

They contend that while insecurity is pushing the country towards destruction, there are distrust and sharp divisions among ethnic groups.

The recent suspension of the Ruga settlement project by the Federal Government was greeted with criticisms. While some of those, who had always been saying yes to everything from Buhari rejected the project, some are threatening to introduce militia groups to secure their regions since the security agencies have allegedly failed them.

For instance, the pan-Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has expressed worry about the way Buhari is handling insecurity and other issues threatening the existence of the nation.

The Ohanaeze’s spokesperson, Uche Achi-Ukpaga, said the Buhari’s administration had polarised the country along ethnic lines by pushing the Fulani which he belongs above other ethnic groups.

He said, “When you begin to do the right thing in a wrong way, it becomes wrong. When you begin to appoint heads of military and other security agencies from one ethnic group without minding how people from other ethnic groups will feel, especially in a country like Nigeria, then you must know that you are sending a wrong signal to the people. All the governments before this one took this into consideration before appointing people into key strategic positions.

“This President just brought people of Fulani extraction and they can’t arrest their Fulani brothers that are killing, maiming, raping and kidnapping for ransom. This is giving us an impression that this government has a secret agenda against other tribes.

“We are in a serious crisis now and the only thing remaining is disintegration and that is left to the government to avert. What is happening which some people are not aware of is that the same Boko Haram fighters were the ones that transform into herdsmen, killing people all over. The herdsmen we knew before were those driving their cows all over without killing people or kidnapping them. But the herdsmen came after Boko Haram and they started carrying dangerous weapons. These ones are not herdsmen but Fulani criminals masquerading as herdsmen.”

But the Director, Institute for Peace and Strategic Studies, University of Ibadan, Prof. Tajudeen Akanji, said security should not be left to the government and security agencies alone.

He stated that there was no way security forces could rid the nation of criminals if the people refused to play their own role in ensuring safety.

The don said, “There is a lot of miscommunication going on and there seems to be no collaboration between the security agencies. Security is supposed to be a joint effort and should not be left for the government alone to handle. Security is supposed to involve government; security agencies and and the people – I mean both organised and unorganised ones.

“We have this challenge because most people are thinking security matter is the work of the government alone. I expect that everyone must strive to play their role. Government also must realise that it cannot do it alone and should therefore involve the people. Right information is very key and that is why the media must be carried along to have the right information and they must also put the interest of the nation first.”

A Fellow of the International Institute of Professional Securities, Mr Jackson Ojo, told our correspondent that Nigeria had become a very unsafe place, adding that Buhari administration was not handling the issue of insecurity the proper way.

He said the lack of political will to tackle herdsmen crisis could force Nigerians to adopt self help.

Ojo said, “This problem started in the North-East with the Boko Haram and the military said they had displaced the terrorists. But where are the displaced terrorists from the North-East? They have spread across the country and regrouped as bandits, killing, maiming and kidnapping people.

“They are doing this in the North-West and the money gathered from ransom and other criminal activities is sent to their Boko Haram base in the North-East. From the North-East, they spread to the North-Central doing the same thing there. From the North-Central, they have spread to the South-West. As I talk to you now, four Fulani herdsmen were arrested with AK-47 in Imesi Ile, my hometown, in Obokun Local Government Area of Osun State.

“The Ruga initiative is another issue and many people are saying that the government has not cancelled the project. When former President Olusegun Obasanjo raised the issue that there was Fulanisation agenda, I was one of those who attacked him. But we can see better now that Obasanjo is right and that thing is moving towards splitting the country into four or six. This Ruga project, if not cancelled, may bring about disintegration. “

A former coordinator of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, Port Harcourt Zone, Prof. Beke Sese, told SUNDAY PUNCH that insecurity in the country could not be detached from unemployment and urged that this factor should be tackled first.

He said, “Everybody has been crying about government’s tilting towards a particular region and in a country like ours, if the leadership is expressing trust in one part and expressing distrust towards other parts, then that will create deep divisions. This thing has a spiral effect and people are angry – nobody is thinking about one nation.

“What the government needs to do now is to bring in technology to fight crime. People know that they can commit crime and go away with it because we don’t do forensic investigation.”

But a professor of law at the University of Jos, Nnamdi Aduba, noted that Nigerians from the various ethnic groups had scattered all over the country and had been living together for a very long time.

He said disintegration was not an option because many living outside their regions would be negatively affected if such should happen even as he stressed that the government was not handling the security issues the best way.

Aduba said, “The North is in crisis just like the South. Some people are causing problem and making money from it. There are millions of Igbo people living in the North and they have been living there for years. I have been living in the North for 40 years. Nobody is leaving anywhere.

“Although there may be more people from the North in the police, the police presence is concentrated in the southern part of the country. In the North, you can travel for three hours without meeting any police checkpoint unlike in the South. Also, we have a police force that is antagonistic to the citizenry and we expect the citizens to supply information. In places where armed herdsmen are tormenting them, like Yorubaland, they should set up vigilante groups to ward off attacks. The rich people should put down funds and unemployed youths should be engaged to work as vigilantes.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]