Wabara panel begins probe of suspected errant PDP National Assembly members
Success Nwogu

A former Senate President, Adolphus Wabara, on Friday, said his committee had commenced investigation into why some Peoples Democratic Party National Assembly members flouted the party’s directives and voted against the candidates endorsed by the party during the National Assembly leadership elections.

He also stated that the expected recommendations of his committee would keep the PDP together.

Wabara chairs the committee set up by the PDP National Working Committee.

The secretary of the committee, which had been inaugurated by the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, is Prof Wale Oladipo.

Other members of the committee are Yunana Iliya, Senator Ben Obi, Mr Austin Opara, Senator Ibrahim Mantu, Senator Stella Omu, Margaret Icheen, Hassan Hyatt and Senator Abdul Ningi.

In an interview with our correspondent in Abuja on Thursday, Wabara said the committee would give fair hearing to all the affected lawmakers.

He stated that the committee would not want anything that would bring disunity to the PDP.

He said, “We will come up with what is right. When we get to the story, we will get the story behind the story; then we will know what our actions will be. It is an investigative panel; we do not need to predetermine what our decision will be until we hear the parties out.

“You always have two sides to a story and two sides to a coin. So you have to look at both sides and weigh the options and then come up with a decision. But I know whatever it will be will be a decision that will keep my party, the PDP, together. We would not want anything to disunite us at all.”

The party had directed its members to vote for Senator Ali Ndume from Borno South Senatorial District as the Senate President and Umar Bago from Chanchanga Federal Constituency of Niger State as the Speaker of the House of Representatives but the anointed candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Senator Ahmed Lawan from the Yobe North Senatorial District emerged the Senate President. He got 79 votes to defeat Ndume who garnered 28 votes.

Also another APC anointed candidate, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, from Surulere I Federal Constituency of Lagos State emerged the Speaker of the House of Representatives.

He scored 281 votes to defeat Bago who garnered 76 votes. Ndume and Bago are also APC members.

Miffed by the development, the PDP NWC during its emergency 86th National Executive Committee said the PDP would investigate what happened.

The PDP National Secretary, Senator Umaru Tsauri, in a letter to Wabara had said the terms of reference of the committee were to investigate and find out why some PDP the then senators-elect and Reps-elects failed to abide by the decision of the party during the NASS leadership election.

He said the terms included finding out whether there was any involvement of the APC in the decision taken by the members involved.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]