PDP group, Alaibe clash over large gov aspirants
Simon Utebor

A political group, the Peoples Democratic Party Youth Network, and a former Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission, Timi Alaibe, have clashed over unwieldy number of governorship aspirants of the PDP in Bayelsa State.

While the PDPYN claimed that the deluge of aspirants from the party was because of Alaibe’s ambition, Alaibe claimed that Governor Seriake Dickson was using the group to cause confusion in the governorship race.

The PDPYN, in a statement by its Secretary-General, Mr James Oputin, called on the leadership of the PDP to display tact, caution and maturity in handling the sensitive issue of the governorship ticket of the party in the November 16 poll in order not to jeopardise the party’s chances in the election.

Oputin said a large number of aspirants unprecedented in the history of the PDP had besieged the party to indicate interest in the governorship because of the ambition of Alaibe and his defection to the PDP.

According to him, the bitterness and growing disenchantment among the members of the Bayelsa PDP about the surreptitious bid to hand over the party to Alaibe was at the root of the incredibly high number of aspirants that had approached the PDP for the governorship ticket in Bayelsa.

He said the leaders of the PDP were coming out to contest for the governorship ticket out of the anger and growing resistance against the bid to hand over the party to those who abandoned it.

Oputin said that former President Goodluck Jonathan, his wife, Patience, and the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, who were pushing to give the ticket to Alaibe should note that their actions would not do the party any good.

But Alaibe, in a statement by a former PDP Chairman, Chief Rufus Osiri, said from the statement released by the Political Adviser to the governor, Wilson Fyneman, it was clear where the onslaught was coming from.

Alaibe, therefore, urged Dickson to face the delegates and stop demonising him, wondering when it had become an offence for several aspirants to seek an office in any election.

He said, “If you read the statement by Wilson Fynman, the political adviser to Governor Seriake Dickson, it will be clear to you where this onslaught is coming from. Dickson wants to cause confusion in the race.

“He has drafted three of his aides and has even funded more appointees including the Deputy Governor John Jonah and former Speaker Benson Kombowei to procure forms and join the race and has turned around to blame an innocent Timi Alaibe for it.”

READ ALSO: Bauchi sets up panel to probe Yuguda, Abubakar

He added, “When did it become an offence for several aspirants to seek an office in any election? Why is that the responsibility of an individual? How come Dickson is blaming Alaibe for everything he does politically in Bayelsa State?

“Dickson was a chieftain of the Alliance for Democracy and the All Nigeria Peoples Party before joining the PDP to become the governor of the state. Why has it suddenly become an offence for those who joined other parties to return to the PDP? What is Dickson afraid of? He should be bold enough to allow all the aspirants, including those he has anointed, to face the delegates and stop demonising Alaibe.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]