Abiodun, Akinlade’s loyalists clash at Ogun gov tribunal
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

Pandemonium broke out at the premises of the Ogun State Election Petition Tribunal, Isabo, Abeokuta, on Wednesday, as loyalists of the governor of the state, Dapo Abiodun and the governorship candidate of the Allied People’s Movement, Adekunle Akinlade clashed, leaving several persons injured.

The development prompted the chairman of the tribunal, Justice Yusuf Halilu to read the riot act, warning that he would not tolerate any act of violence from supporters of any political party.

During the melee, Akinlade escaped a mob attack when some hoodlums who wore yellow fez caps reportedly ran after his vehicle as he drove out of the court premises after the tribunal went on a recess.

Akinlade is challenging the result of the state’s governorship election held on March 9, 2019 at the tribunal.

Trouble started when the loyalists of the two politicians clad in vests and face caps with the identity of their parties and names of their leaders hurled abuses on each other outside the court premises while the tribunal sitting was ongoing in the morning.

But the situation became uncontrollable after the tribunal went on recess as the hoodlums charged at Akinlade who was leaving the court premises in his vehicle.

The hoodlums started pelting his vehicle with sachets of water and stones and chanting abusive songs while he escaped from the hoodlums with the aid of security agents.

Immediately after Akinlade escaped from the hoodlums, his loyalists and Abiodun’s engaged each other and threw caution into the winds.

Meanwhile, Justice Halilu read the riot act when the tribunal reconvened after the recess.

Counsel for Akinlade, Isiaka Olagunju, informed the tribunal that the lives of Akinlade, his counsel and his supporters were no longer safe following the attack on him allegedly by supporters of the APC.

The Halilu-led tribunal frowned at the development, while recalling that it was the second of its kind since the tribunal commenced sitting.

He said the tribunal would be compelled to ask the state Commissioner of Police to appear before it so as to give him instructions to beef up security around the court premises.

“It is very sad that we are experiencing this kind of situation again. This will be the second time. We will be compelled to invite the Commissioner of Police and we will give instructions to supporters of all political parties to stay clear of this tribunal.

“We have been enjoying tremendous peace since the commencement of this tribunal. We will not sit here and allow anything happen to any of us. We have to put all hands on deck to ensure we do not have a repeat of this.

READ ALSO: El-Rufai’s ‘two-country’ lie

“I have seen the first petitioner (Akinlade) times without number, cautioning his supporters whenever they try to make noise in the courtroom.

“Political leaders should talk to their supporters to give peace a chance. Politicians are all one. Support your candidate, don’t embarrass your candidate. There is no law that supports you throwing stones at anybody.

“Tell your supporters to leave this matter for us. That is why we are here. We are the ones you are looking up to; let us do our work, and we will do it without fear or favour,” Justice Halilu said.

Earlier, counsel for Abiodun, Prof. Taiwo Osipitan, SAN, had said that Akinlade’s counsel erred by not discussing the situation with other members of the inner and outer bar before presenting same to the tribunal.

Osipintan added that he was not aware of the attack on Akinlade.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]