Obaseki cautions ‘Abuja politicians’ fuelling Edo crisis
Raphael Olayinka

Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State on Thursday said he was ready to tackle politicians he described as detractors who were trying to derail his administration.

Obaseki said this against the backdrop of the decision of the House of Representatives to set up an ad hoc committee to look into the crisis rocking the Edo State APC over the controversial inauguration of the state House of Assembly.

As of the time of filing this report the lawmakers were still being expected from Abuja.

But addressing a rally held at the National Museum ground in Ring Road, Obaseki said there were politicians already trying to heat up the polity but vowed that he was ready for them and that his administration would not allow anybody to create crisis for his government.

He said, “Political activities in the last months will not distract us. We will continue to be focused. Our focus is you the people of Edo and not any individual. Our focus is to use the money we have in Edo to develop the people and Edo State.

“What I will not do as governor is to chop the seed yam. The seed yam is to be cultivated so that we can have a bumper harvest. I will not allow anybody chop the little money we have today. That money is meant to be invested so that we can have a better future. That is the fight, that is the struggle. The struggle started 12 years ago in this town. The struggle has not ended. It has entered gear two.

“It is unfortunate that some people who were with us 12 years ago, we do not know what has happened to them. It is a struggle we will win.

“…Those people who are parading themselves singing everywhere for themselves and their pockets, Edo people are watching you. Those of you who have gone to Abuja to say people should come and invade Edo and seize our House of Assembly, we are waiting for you.

“We have no fear at all. We have resolved to continue to do what is best for our state and for our country. We have no doubt that we are on the right course. We know that Edo is with us. We know that the people are with us. We know that teachers, traditional rulers, labour unions are with us. Anybody that tries to stop us, come here and you will see.

READ ALSO: Buhari asks Senate to confirm Muhammad as CJN, 15 aides

“We dare you that nobody can stop the progress in Edo State. I assure that you have a government that is resolved to make Edo number one. Help us maintain peace. Without peace there will be no prosperity. They know that if we continue to have the peace we had in the last two years, nobody will catch us. In a few years’ time, those of them parading themselves as democrats whereas they are not, people who say they represent us in Abuja no longer come. They stay there and start throwing stones at home. Those Abuja politicians who we refused to send back and those who got there by mistake want to disturb the peace of Edo. We will not allow them.”

Earlier, the state chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Sunday Osayende, said “There is no godfather anymore and anybody who wants to take Edo back to the days of godfatherism, we will join hands to fight them.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]