Northern youth coalition to meet govs over Ruga ultimatum
Mudiaga Affe

The Coalition of Northern Groups on Thursday accepted to meet with the northern governors to find solution to the lingering conflict of pasture all over the country.

The group, comprising youths from the northern region, had on July 3 issued a 30-day ultimatum to President Muhammadu Buhari to implement the Ruga policy across the country, but the Federal Government had shortly after the ultimatum suspended the policy.

However, the Leader of the CNG, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, at the end a meeting on Thursday expressed concern that southern leaders, led by the governors, had deliberately politicised and frustrated every initiative of the Federal Government at finding solution to the lingering conflict over pasture.

In a statement on Thursday, the group faulted the eastern governors for choosing to select which Nigerians to be accepted in their states.

The statement read in part, “CNG notes the statesmanlike response by the new leadership of the Northern Governors Forum under Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State which acknowledged our genuine intentions of protecting the North and its interests as well as our commitment to peaceful national cohesion expressed in our calls for calm from the North to allow for decent and constructive engagement.

READ ALSO: Oyakhilome’s anti-feminism comments draw mixed reactions

“The CNG also notes the fatherly response of the Northern Elders Forum which also falls in tune with our genuine commitment to safeguarding the well-being of northerners as well as our appeal for decency and calm.

“CNG hereby accepts to honour the invitation for talks with the forum in the spirit of our culture of respect for the wisdom of elders. CNG notes also the mature and thoughtful response from the Arewa Consultative Forum which unequivocally said it shared our concerns.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]unchng.com