Presidential poll: Virtually all result sheets falsified in Borno, says PDP agent
Ade Adesomoju, Abuja

The Borno State collation agent for the Peoples Democratic Party in the February 23, 2019 presidential election, Mr Nicholas Msheliza, said at the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal on Thursday that virtually all the result sheets from the various local government areas in the state were mutilated.

Msheliza was one of the nine witnesses presented by the PDP and its presidential candidate in the election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who gave the tribunal their accounts of how the polls were allegedly marred by mutilation of result sheets, intimidation of voters, allocation of figures, disruption of electoral process and illegal cancellation of results in various parts of Borno, Kaduna and Bauchi states during the polls.

The witnesses added to the ones previously called to make up the 28 so far called by the petitioners to testify in defence of their petition.

The PDP and Atiku are, by their petition filed before the Justice Mohammed Garba-led tribunal of five judges, challenging the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari and his All Progressives Congress at the polls.

The respondents to the petition are the Independent National Electoral Commission, Buhari and the APC.

Aside from calling witnesses, the petitioners, through their lead counsel, Dr Livy Uzoukwu (SAN), also tendered as exhibit the Manual on Elections Technologies and Troubleshooting which they obtained from INEC and was certified by the electoral body.

Despite the certification, the respondents’ lawyers – Yunus Usman (SAN), for INEC; Yusuf Ali (SAN), for Buhari; and Funke Adekoya (SAN), for the APC –objected to the admissibility of the document tendered along with a July 3, 2019 receipt issued by INEC for its certification.

The tribunal admitted the document along with the receipt as Exhibits P33 and P33A.

Testifying as the 23rd petitioners’ witness on Thursday, the state collation agent for the petitioners in Borno State, Msheliza, said that apart from widespread mutilation of result sheets in the state, there were instances of over-voting.

The witness said the total votes of 911,786 declared by INEC were more than the accredited voters across the state.

He also said there was zero accreditation of voters in over 200 polling units out of the 3,933 statutory polling units in the state.

He noted that there were a total of 5,078 voting points, including the polling units.

“In over 200 polling units across Borno State, there was zero accreditation of voters,” the witness said.

He added, “Virtually all the result sheets that were brought to the state collation centre were mutilated.

Asked by INEC’s lawyer, Yunus Usman (SAN), to give the correct figures, he said he was not in a position to do so.

Under cross-examination by the APC’s lawyer, Adeniyi Akintola (SAN), the witnesses maintained that “the results were already collated” before he got to the state collation centre.

But Akintola referred him to a part of his witness statement on oath where he stated that he “observed in the course of transmitting the results from local government result sheets to the state result sheets wrong figures were being entered by INEC officials.”

When asked to reconcile the seeming contradiction between his claim that the results were already collated before he got to the collation centre, and his deposition that he observed the process of figures being transferred from Forms EC8C and EC8D, the witness said, “They were merely announcing the results to the hearing of people present.”

APC took advantage of explosions in Borno on presidential election day to rig – PDP agent

Also the collation agent for the PDP in Damboa Local Government Area of Borno State, Bukar Petrol, told the tribunal that the APC took advantage of the bombings that occurred in Damboa during the election, to rig.

Petrol was testifying as the 27th petitioners’ witness.

Under cross-examination by respondents’ lawyers, Petrol said because of the security situation of Boko Haram insurgency in Borno State, the 100 polling units in the 10 wards of the Damboa Local Government Area were cited on the premises of the local government secretariat in Damboa town.

He said the distribution of sensitive electoral materials in the local government area which ought to commence by 4am was deliberately delayed by the Independent National Electoral Commission’s officers till 8am.

He said voting commenced at some few minutes past 10am.

He said in the course of the voting, there were bombings in the area after which everybody ran away from the venue to safety.

He said by the time they returned to the venue of the election, the Civilian Joint Task Force, had taken over the election and the APC allegedly took advantage of the situation to rig.

The collation agent for the petitioners in the Jere Local Government Area of Borno State, Adam Ali Amsani, also said under cross-examination that his party did not collect copies of the Forms EC8A (polling unit result sheets) in some polling units “because our agents were sent away by personnel of security agents in connivance with the agents of the 3rd respondent (APC)”.

He alleged that there was “massive alteration of results” in the local government area.

He also said he refused to sign or collect a copy of the local government result sheet (Form EC8D) because of alteration.

Five witnesses called from Kaduna

Five witnesses testified about alleged widespread irregularities in Kaduna State during the presidential election.

They included the PDP collation agent for, Kaduna South Local Government, Major Yahaya Shiko (retd) (PW20); the party’s local government collation agent in Zaria, Jafaru Usman (PW21); and the collation agent for the party in Kaduna North Local Government Area, Abduraham Usman (PW22).

The rest are the petitioners’ collation agent in Sanga LGA, John Makama (PW24) and a ward collation agent in the state, Khalid Yelwa Kubau (PW25).

Shiko, who represented the petitioners at the collation centre for the Kaduna South Local Government Area, said the results of the polls were doctored in his presence in favour of the APC.

Testifying as the 20th petitioners’ witness, Shiko added the polls in his area were marred by over-voting and allocation of figures to political parties that participated in the election.

The witness, who was commissioned as an officer of the Nigerian Army in 1993, said his account of irregularities during the election in his area was based on the reports he received from his polling units and the ones he personally witnessed.

The 21st petitioners’ witness, Usman, who served as the local government collation agent for the petitioners in Zaria, Kaduna State, told the tribunal that the results in his area were rigged in favour of the APC.

Makama, who testified as the 24th petitioners’ witness, said under cross-examination by the respondents’ counsel, that the results were cancelled in his presence at the local government collation centre by INEC’s local government collation officer and not at the polling units where the election took place.

He said, “It is an aberration that results from wards and polling units were cancelled.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]