PDP grills Elumelu over House minority leadership crisis
Success Nwogu, Abuja

Members of the Peoples Democratic Party’s committee chaired by a former Senate President, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, set up by the party’s Board of Trustees on Thursday grilled the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Mr Ndudi Elumelu, and the other PDP members of the House of Representatives who were suspended by the party’s National Working Committee over the House minority leadership crisis.

The members were suspended after the emergence of Elumelu as the minority leader contrary to the party’s list for minority leadership in the House of Representatives.

Other PDP Reps who were suspended by the PDP NWC also for alleged “indiscipline, insubordination and disobedience of the party directives” included the member representing Oriade/Obokun Federal Constituency of Osun State, Wole Oke; member representing Onitsha-North and Onitsha-South Federal Constituency, Lynda Ikpeazu; member representing Ezza North/Ishielu Federal Constituency, Anayo Edwin; member representing Kaura Federal Constituency in Kaduna State, Gideon Gwani (Minority Whip; member representing Aninri/Awgu/Oji River Federal Constituency of Enugu State, Toby Okechukwu (Deputy Minority Leader); and the member representing Ijebu-North / Ijebu-East/Ogun Waterside Federal Constituency, Adekoya Abdul-Majid.

Our correspondent observed on Thursday that many other Reps who were not suspended also attended the session in solidarity with Elumelu and other suspended members. It was observed that no fewer than 50 Reps who came in three buses and 17 private cars attended the session at the Abuja residence of Ayu.

Ayu told journalists that the elders of the party were looking into the matter, adding that it was a family affair.

Other members of the Ayu committee present were a former deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, Austin Opara (Secretary); a former Senate President, Senator David Mark; another former Senate President, Adolphus Wabara; and a former Deputy Senate President, Ibrahim Mantu.

One of the suspended members who pleaded not to be named said they would avoid crisis in the party, adding that they had already taken a decision.

He said, “We have met and decided that whatever decision that would be reached would not cause crisis in the party.”

PDP had in a letter dated June 21 and addressed to the Speaker confirmed that Chinda was the selected minority leader; Chukwuka Onyema (deputy minority leader); Yakubu Barde (minority whip) and Muraina Ajibola (deputy minority whip).

The letter was signed by the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus and the Secretary, Senator Umaru Tsauri.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]