PDP caucus will present one aspirant for Bayelsa gov primary –Dickson
Samuel Nkemakolem, Yenagoa

A caucus within the Bayelsa State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, called the Restoration Team, has said it will only present one of its members during the governorship primary.

The Special Adviser to the Governor Seriake Dickson on Media Relations, Mr Fidelis Soriwei, in a statement quoted the governor as calling on members of the Restoration Team with interest to contest the governorship election to pick the party’s nomination form for consultations to begin.

In the statement on Tuesday, the governor said three aspirants had earlier approached the leadership of the party and the Restoration caucus to indicate interest.

Seriake said the rising number of aspirants from the Restoration Team under his leadership showed the existence of a large number of “highly competent and dedicated men of repute who are prepared to undertake the crucial mission of leading the state” after him.

The statement also quoted the governor as having called on residents of Bayelsa to make a “dispassionate” assessment of the aspirants to know who to support in the primaries.

He said all members of the Restoration Team with the interest to contest the governorship election would be supported for the purpose of continuity and stability in the governance of the state.

He added, “The Restoration Team is inclined to support a candidate from the caucus for the governorship ticket because of the imperative of continuity and stability in governance.

“It is on the basis of this that any member of the Restoration Team who has an ambition is called upon to pick the form. The caucus shall make all the necessary arrangements for consultations within the Restoration Caucus of the PDP before taking a final decision on who to support.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]