Reps intervene in Edo Assembly crisis, set up probe panel
Leke Baiyewu, Abuja

The House of Representatives has resolved to intervene in the crisis rocking the Edo State House of Assembly and set up an ad hoc committee to investigate the matter.

The resolve was made at the plenary on Tuesday after the adoption of a motion moved by three members from Edo State namely, Messrs Julius Ihonvbere, Peter Akpatason and Johnson Oghuma.

The lawmakers prayed the House to take over the affairs of the state Assembly pending the resolution of the crisis.

The prayer of the motion read, “That the National Assembly, in line with the provisions of Section 11(4) of the Constitution, take over the affairs of the Edo State House of Assembly and ensure the proper inauguration of the House, with the Inspector-General of Police and the Director-General of the Department of State Services, providing the necessary security for the 24 members-elect to be sworn in as expected and required by the law.”

After the debate on the matter, the House however unanimously resolved that a panel be set up to probe into the circumstances surrounding the inauguration and election of the Speaker of the Assembly at odd hours, with nine members in attendance.

Moving the motion, Ihonvbere said, “The House notes with concern the improper, clandestine and nocturnal inauguration of the 7th Edo State House of Assembly on the June 17, 2019, wherein nine out of 24 members-elect were purportedly sworn in without the knowledge of the other 15 members-elect.

“On June 17, 2019, 10 days after the expiration of the 6th Assembly, 19 out of the 24 members-elect called a press conference to urge the Edo State Governor to issue a proclamation to facilitate the inauguration of the House of Assembly and commencement of legislative business in order to avoid a constitutional crisis.

“On the same day, the governor and his deputy, after (allegedly) abducting four members-elect against their wish, caused the Clerk of the House to secretly swear in nine members-elect out of the 24 at 9.30 pm, well outside the normal time recognised by the rules of the House, for the conduct of legislative business.

“The House noted that at the so-called nocturnal inauguration, some of the members who were forcefully sworn in, were improperly dressed with some in casual wear such as shorts, jean trousers, T-shirts, slippers etc. which are not allowable parliamentary dress code.”

Ihonvbere said a day later, the 15 members-elect who were not informed of the “nocturnal inauguration” and two of those who were allegedly forcefully sworn in, addressed a press conference to condemn “the charade that took place at the Edo State House of Assembly the previous night and to demand a proper inauguration.”

The lawmaker added, “However, to their chagrin, they were attacked by hired thugs and the state security outfit code-named ‘Wabaizigan’ and backed by men of the Nigeria Police Force and (allegedly) led by the Chief Security Officer to the Governor, DSP Chris Nwokolo.

“Consequent upon the threat to their lives and injuries sustained from the attack, the majority of the members-elect of the Edo State House of Assembly have since fled the state to safety.

READ ALSO: Buhari promotes former North-East commander to Buratai’s rank

“Against the background of the illegality and the growing security challenges in Edo State, no normal legislative business can take place unless the proper procedure for inaugurating the legislature is done as envisaged and guaranteed by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and security provided.”

After adopting the motion, the Speaker, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, set up a probe panel led by the immediate past spokesperson for the House and former speakership aspirant, Mr Abdulrazak Namdas, to investigate the Edo Assembly crisis.

According to Gbajabiamila, the findings by the panel will determine the next action by the House.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]