I’ll build refinery in Bayelsa, says gov aspirant
Success Nwogu, Abuja

A Bayelsa State governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party for the November governorship election, Fred Agbedi, has said greater harnessing and better management of resources by governors will enhance the delivery of dividends of democracy to Nigerians.

He stated that governors should maximise the natural resources in their states so as to boost revenue generation and provision of infrastructure as well as human capital development.

He spoke to journalists after collecting his Expression of Interest and Nomination forms, in Abuja on Tuesday.

Agbedi, who is currently the lawmaker representing Sagbama/Ekeremor Federal Constituency of Bayelsa State, said he would build a refinery through public-private partnership in the state if he emerged the governor of the state.

He stated that he would maximise the state’s oil and gas resources to build a modular refinery to advance development, employment generation and boost the welfare of the residents of the state.

He added that if elected his administration would pay particular attention to industrialisation, quality health care and education.

Agbedi said, “We will ensure that youths who created an atmosphere of militancy will be brought together. So, I am in the race to render service in a greater capacity. I know what the challenges are in Bayelsa State. I also know the issues people agitate about.

“Bayelsa will witness a tremendous improvement in the standard of living of its people. I will work with a team of committed patriots to take the state to a higher level.”

In like manner, another Bayelsa State governorship aspirant under the PDP, Reuben Okoya, who also obtained his Expression of Interest and Nomination forms, said he would build on what the current state governor, Seriake Dickson, had achieved so as to boost the standard of living of the residents.

He said, “To win, the PDP must field the right candidate or we will be in trouble. It is gratifying to see that the party now has more states than it did in 2015.

“We must stay focused for the battle ahead. We must build schools and hospitals. People have no money to spend. The party should ask who among us has the capacity and if they do, they will come to me. I have done it before and I will do it again.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]