Tinubu, Akande, Osoba tell Ondo APC leaders to resolve crisis
Peter Dada, Akure

The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, on Tuesday visited Akure, the Ondo State capital, to meet with all the aggrieved members of the party in the state.

Tinubu was in the town in company with a former interim national chairman of the party, Chief Bisi Akande; a former governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba, and some prominent leaders of the APC in the South-West.

The party leaders held a meeting with the governors of Ondo and Ekiti states, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu and Dr Kayode Fayemi, respectively and some of the aggrieved party members.

Among such aggrieved APC members, who attended the meeting, were a former chairman of the party, Isaac Kekemeke, Chief Olusola Oke and Senator Tayo Alasoadura.

At the meeting, which lasted for over two hours, Tinubu and other party leaders were said to have appealed to all aggrieved members to sheathe their swords and unite for the sake of growth and progress of the party.

Addressing journalists at the end of the meeting, Tinubu, a former governor of Lagos State, said, “The leadership will apply conflicts and resolution mechanism, which is part of politics, to resolve any other problem and smoothen the edges. That is what the meeting was about.

“Our next move now is to ensure unity, talking together, consulting one another and working for the interest of our party, and to keep encouraging our leaders in Ondo State to do what we have agreed to do.”

Tinubu also held a separate meeting with another set of APC leaders in Ondo at the International Conference Centre, Akure, where he appealed to them to come together as one so as to win the upcoming election and others in the future.

He said, “We are leaving one thing behind, that is the charity that must begin at home. We want to win the next election in Ondo State and every other election. The solution is in your hands. We want to thank you for your commitment to the party.”

Similarly, Akande said the meeting was about how the party would unite and win the next governorship election.

“We have told our party leaders in Ondo to go and do their job and bring our party together as one,” he said.

Speaking after the meeting, Kekemeke said all the factions had agreed to work together.

“We have agreed to work together in a short while. We have agreed to meet and proffer a solution to the crisis. We have agreed that within ourselves we will make compromise; the governor will make a compromise and we too will make a compromise in order to move the party forward,” he stated.

Kekemeke, however, declared that the issue of second term of Akeredolu was not discussed at the meeting.

“All we discussed was how we will end the crisis, we never discussed the second term of anybody,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]