Ex-IYC President, Eradiri, joins Bayelsa gov race
Samuel Nkemakolem, Yenagoa

The immediate past President of the Ijaw Youth Congress, Edengs Eradiri, has joined the race for the Bayelsa State governorship seat.

Eradiri, who is the present Commissioner for Youths in Bayelsa State, made his intention to run for the governorship office public when he received the N21m donated to him by a coalition of youths to enable him to purchase his party’s nomination and expression of interest forms.

The youths said they were determined to ensure that Eradiri contested and won the ticket of his party, the Peoples Democratic Party, ahead of the governorship election billed for November.

Speaking in Yenagoa, the state capital, the youths, led by Johnny Jonathan, said they were working towards the emergence of a youth as the next governor of Bayelsa State.

Jonathan said all the youth groups in Bayelsa were united in the project to make Eradiri the governorship candidate of the PDP, adding that they contributed and donated N21m to him to demonstrate their seriousness.

He said the youths would accompany Eradiri to purchase the forms at the PDP headquarters in Abuja before weekend.

Jonathan said the action was in line with the promise of Governor Seriake Dickson to hand over leadership to a youth in the interest of the state.

He said the best legacy the governor would bequeath to posterity was to ensure that a youth like Eradiri emerged as the candidate of the PDP to enable the party to have easy victory at the November poll.

He said, “The Bayelsa youths have come of age. We are now more responsible and ready to take over leadership. The next governorship election is our turn. Our moment has come and we don’t want to joke with this opportunity.

“Therefore, after our various meetings and consultations, we came to a conclusion that we need a youth-friendly governor to succeed our amiable Governor Dickson. The governor has, over the years, shown interests in the affairs of youths in Bayelsa. He has done his best.

“But it is our firm belief that the best gift he can give to youths in Bayelsa is to support one of us to pick the governorship ticket of the PDP in the forthcoming primary election. Our preferred candidate is the former IYC President and Commissioner for Youths, Udengs Eradiri.

“Eradiri has shown capacity in leadership. Having served in many capacities in youth leadership, Eradiri understands our problems and has the right disposition, temperament, intelligence, knowledge and skills to solve our problems.”

“We know that as a believer in the restoration ideals of the government, Eradiri will consolidate the achievements of our incumbent governor. We have what it takes to win election for the PDP because as youths we account for over 60 per cent of the voting population.

“To demonstrate our seriousness, we have raised money through contributions to enable Eradiri to buy the forms of the PDP. We are calling on Eradiri not reject our offer and to ensure that he buys the forms before the weekend.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]