Northern group’s threat, drumbeat of war, say Ohanaeze youths
Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki

Leadership of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council, on Friday, said that the threat that emanated from the Coalition of Northern groups, over the suspension of Ruga settlement by the Presidency, was clearly a drumbeat of war and should be watched.

The body noted that the latest threat from the Northern group was not only capable of causing unrest across the federation, but targeted at lives and properties of peaceful Nigerians of Igbo extraction and other minority groups in the country.

President-General of the body, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, stated this in a statement made available to journalists in Abakaliki, on Friday.

The Igbo youth group, in the statement, pointed out that instead of resorting to threats or hate speech from the CNG, it would rather facilitate a peaceful measure among leaders of other youth organisations across the federation, to ensure peace reigned in the country.

The PUNCH reports that a coalition of Northern groups, had on Wednesday, issued a 30-day ultimatum to the Federal Government to rescind its decision over the suspension of its earlier proposed Ruga Settlement Policy for cattle breeders in the country.

This Federal Government’s initial plan was faced with stiff rejection and criticisms by different strata of the Nigerian society.

The Igbo youths statement read in part, “Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide had studied diligently and weighed the implications of the recent threat and 30-day ultimatum from a Coalition of Northern groups over the suspension of Ruga settlement by the Presidency.

“We are fully aware that the recent threats are targeted only at the lives and properties of peaceful Nigerians of Igbo extraction doing businesses in 19 Northern states, and this is a declaration of war against the Igbo and other law-abiding Nigerians.

“lnstead of resorting to same threats or hate speech, or counter threats over the 30-day of Arewa Youths under the auspices of Coalition of Northern Groups, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide will facilitate a peaceful dialogue with the leadership of the coalition and others across the country, to ensure that the ultimatum was resolved peacefully like the previous threat of Quit Notice issued against Igbo in 2017 by the same group.

[READ ALSO] Ruga controversy: Defend your lands, Ooni, Soyinka, tell Nigerians, SMBLF alleges fresh plot

“We will not fail to explore all peaceful avenues for the protection of lives and properties of Igbo living in the 19 Northern states, but warn that our peaceful approach should not be understood as weakness as there are other options open to us. But we will legitimately pursue peaceful ways to avert this imminent mayhem and genocidal ethnic cleansing against Igbos in the North.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]