Stop inviting Olubadan, high chiefs to same event, Mogajis tell Makinde
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

Some Ibadan family heads, also known as Authentic Mogajis, on Sunday asked the Oyo State Government to respect the status of Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Saliu Adetunji, and stop inviting his chiefs, who were elevated to kingship status by the last administration, to same event as monarchs.

Citing a court judgment which nullified the processes through which the former governor Abiola Ajimobi crowned the chiefs and some baales in Ibadan, the Mogajis described invitation to the ‘rival chiefs’ to government functions “as an affront to the Olubadan.”

They described as an insult the situation where the high chiefs attended events and refused to accord Olubadan his due respect.

The Mogajis, according to their group’s spokesman, Chief Wale Oladoja, warned that the family heads would no longer condone such ‘an affront’ and has therefore appealed to the governor of the state, Mr Seyi Makinde, to emulate his Ogun State counterpart, Dapo Abiodun, who reversed the appointment of 48 elevated chiefs by the last administration of Senator Ibikunle Amosun in less than a week of assumption of office.

Oladoja said, “We want to inform the general public and the government of Oyo State to stop inviting the Ibadan High chiefs to any function they know Olubadan will be attending as the only foremost ruler of the city.

READ ALSO: Man bags 14 years in prison for sister’s death

“We cannot tolerate further insults on our father, the Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Saliu Adetunji. We resist situation where the high chiefs will be insulting Olubadan, either through their actions or speeches. Olubadan is a respected monarch and a decent father, there should be no reason for passing insult on him.

“We want the government of the day to see peace of Ibadan land as peace of the entire Yoruba nation. The governor should handle the case of the National Union of Road Workers with care because all the parties are our sons.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]