Alaibe must apologise before contesting in PDP —Stakeholders
Simon Utebor

Some stakeholders in the Peoples Democratic Party in Bayelsa State have demanded an apology from a former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Timi Alaibe, before contesting any election on the platform of the party.

The stakeholders, under the auspices of the Bayelsa PDP Restoration Foot Soldiers, claimed that Alaibe lacked the moral right to vie for the PDP’s ticket having serially betrayed the party particularly at its trying times.

The group in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Ebi Lawson, said it was against the principles of natural justice, equity and good conscience for Alaibe to be making efforts to harvest in a farm he did not cultivate.

It said while Alaibe had the constitutional right to contest the forthcoming governorship election in Bayelsa, without public apology to all loyal members of the PDP in Nigeria and especially in Bayelsa, he was not qualified to be called a member of the party.

It said it was on record that the ex-NDDC boss allegedly betrayed the PDP when the party needed men of character, will and purpose to survive the hurricane of the opposition. He added that immediately the opposition emerged at the federal level, he abandoned the PDP.

The group, however, said after the loyal PDP members made sacrifices under Dickson’s leadership to stabilise the PDP, Alaibe noticing the strength of the party he abandoned at its trying moment in the state, returned to it.

READ ALSO: Ogbeh backs Lokpobiri for Bayelsa gov race

The group said, “In fact, to worsen his case, Alaibe was accompanied to the headquarters by some self-serving politicians and the so-called leaders who have yet to clear themselves of allegations of anti-party activities in the last election that distracted the PDP and caused the manipulation of elections in some parts of the state, which landed our party in court to recover two House of Representatives seats and one senatorial seat.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]