Ruga: High-level settlement for herdsmen shot down by suspicion
In this piece, FEMI MAKINDE and OKECHUKWU NNODIM review the controversies surrounding the now-suspended Ruga settlements for herders

The needless loss of lives and massive destruction of property caused by open grazing of cattle is said to be one of the effects of poor leadership, which is seen as a major problem in the country. The public outcry against the atrocities of armed herdsmen across the states of the federation has been unabated, compelling Nigerians to call on the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government to proffer a permanent solution to the crisis.

The Ruga settlement solution proposed by the Federal Government to the herdsmen’s menace was greeted with a deluge of criticism. The past few days witnessed heated arguments against the plan which was conceived to cover the entire country. Its proponents have not been silent either.

Some governors, who had hitherto been playing politics of appeasement to the Buhari-led government, have strangely turned around to vow that not an inch of their land would be ceded for Ruga. For instance, Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State; his counterpart in Taraba, Darius Ishaku; South-East governors and Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, who is the Chairman, Nigeria Governors’ Forum, said nobody could take the states’ land by force.

The United States Political Officer, Shashank Iyer, and political specialist, Arnold Abulime, expressed their concern about the issue when they visited the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Gani Adams, to seek his view on the security situation in Nigeria.

The US envoy said, “The US is concerned about the tension in the country, especially now with the introduction of Ruga. The concern of the US is how all ethnic groups in the country can live peacefully.

“It is tricky getting all to live together. That is why there is the need to meet and share perspectives. We need to be able to move the needle forward together in Nigeria, deal with ethnic issues capable of destabilising the country. Nigerians will always find a way around economic issues, but ethnic issues have a way of destabilising the country.”

Nobel Laureate Prof. Wole Soyinka, who also lent his voice to the debate on the Ruga controversy, said the policy could cause explosion in the country if not handled carefully.

Soyinka said, “And the cattle herders have been given a sense of impunity. They kill without any compunction; they drive away the farmers who have been contributing to the food solutions in the country. The cattle eat their crops and then you come up with Ruga.

“I think that there is going to be trouble in this country if this Ruga thing is not handled imaginatively and with humanity as priority. Any country where cattle take priority over human life is definitely at an elementary stage.”

Consequent upon the pressure mounted on the Presidency, which was championing the cause, described as illogical and one-sided by political commentators, Buhari announced the suspension of the project in which contracts had already been awarded.

Some analysts said Ruga was a decoy by Buhari, who had been severely accused of placing the Fulani, the ethnic group to which he belongs, above others. They said Ruga was a plan to grab the land of the various states and hand same over to the Fulani herders so that they could dominate them in the future.

But some argued that Ruga project was not bad in itself but that government’s lack of sincerity and its alleged surreptitious plans to put the Fulani at an advantage over other ethnic groups were behind people’s opposition to the plan.

The Coalition of Northern Groups gave the Federal Government a 30-day ultimatum to implement the Ruga project in the interest of peace and unity in the country.

Spokesperson for the CNG, Abdul-Azeez Sulaiman, urged the FG to ignore what it called the noise of the southern leaders against Ruga and go ahead to implement it, saying it would solve the persistent herder-farmer clashes.

A professor of sociology, Lai Olurode, who is also a former National Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission, told SUNDAY PUNCH that Ruga was rejected by Nigerians because there was nowhere the government discussed it with the people.

He said, “There are some things wrong with the Ruga settlement policybu the concept itself, I will say, is right. The policy was never discussed. So, people see it as government wanting to seize their land. They believe that government wants to seize their land and bring some people there so that they could overwhelm them later; hence, the rejection of the policy.

“We are in democracy and this is not the time of military rule. We already have enough conflicts at hand and we cannot afford to add Ruga to them.”

Olurode added, “Now that the Ruga programme has been suspended, I want O’dua Investment Company to resuscitate their ranches which are all over the South-West. O’dua Investment had ranches all over in the 1960s and I think they imported some cows from Autralia and the ranches were doing fine before the military intervention that destroyed them. By now, we would have been self-sufficient in animal production

“What they need to do is to revisit the project, revive it and it will generate a lot of employment. They had farm settlements and the ranches were inside these farm settlements. Instead of somebody to come and do it for them, the O’dua can resuscitate the ranches and do it themselves.”

But the Lead Director, Centre for Social Justice, Eze Onyekpere, said in an interview with SUNDAY PUNCH that it was not clear why Buhari’s government allegedly determined to commit huge resources of the nation into developing the private business of herders who he said were mostly foreigners.

He said, “Nigerians have not been told the public purpose in the private business of cattle rearing because land would eventually be acquired by governors. Under the Land Use Act, land can only be acquired for overriding public purpose. What is the public purpose in cattle rearing?

“The Federal Government is, by this Ruga plan, stating that violence pays. So, when people commit murder, arson and undue violence, they are compensated with people’s land instead of being punished for their offences, this is a very dangerous precedent.

“The impression being created is that the Federal Government is only interested in altering the demographics, being the population dynamics of specific states with the influx of persons who no one is sure whether they are Nigerians or not.

“Coming from a government that divided Nigerians into 97 per cent and five per cent and has failed, refused and neglected to explain the purpose of this division, its activities are bound to be suspect.

“So, representatives of nationality groups, who feel alienated by government policy, are bound to reject an initiative coming from a government that has not pretended to lean towards inclusivity in its policy formulation, implementation and appointments.”

Justifying the people’s rejection of the project, a former President, Association of National Accountants of Nigeria, Dr Sam Nzekwe, told SUNDAY PUNCH that the government did not seek the input of stakeholders in the planning of the project.

He said there was no way such programme, which was shrouded in secrecy, would not be shot down.

Nzekwe stated, “There has been so many conflicting statements about this Ruga settlement issue. The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, said something recently and an aide at the Presidency seemingly countered what he (Osinbajo) said. However, if you look at it critically, there is nothing wrong with the Ruga settlement plan but the truth is that it must be done in a way that is fair enough to most, if not all Nigerians.

“The state governors should be part of the decision and people in states where you plan to have this programme should be carried along. Right now, the suspicion by the masses against the government on this Ruga thing is too much. There is a need for the government to discuss this thing thoroughly with not just stakeholders but with Nigerians generally.

“But if you have not discussed thoroughly and the next thing you hear or see in the papers is Ruga settlement nationwide, then, of course, people will kick against it vehemently, just like what we’ve seen in the past weeks. This is because people have the belief that the government has a hidden agenda that it wants to carry out through the Ruga initiative.

The National President, All Farmers Association of Nigeria, Kabir Ibrahim, also felt the Ruga project was misconstrued by many people because the concept was not properly explained to them.

“Ruga means small settlement for herders. Government plans to build so many facilities, including schools, there for the herders to live sedentary life and to add value to what they are doing. They plan to build markets close to these settlements. The schools will cater for the educational needs of their children and the herders will benefit directly or indirectly from these schools because most of what they are not doing right are due to lack of education. They move cattle from Katsina to Lagos and by the time the cows get to Lagos, they will arrive as bones, no matter the volume of what they eat.

“People are saying that Buhari, being a Fulani man, wants to seize their land for the Fulani but Obudu Cattle Ranch was not built by Fulani. In Midland, England, you see cows eating lush green grass there. They don’t allow people to drive cattle around in England. Ruga is another name for ranches but it is temporary.”

A source at the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, while defending Ruga in an interview with SUNDAY PUNCH, said the project was not different from ranching which many have suggested.

The source said, “When people talk about the name, don’t forget that the ministry had to send its memo on the issue to the Federal Executive Council for approval. Now you have to give that memo a title. So, why they quickly used Ruga is simply because the word Ruga means a settlement where herders are found, particularly Fulani.

“So, Ruga is just a word and if you wish to call it ranch, you can do so. It is cattle ranch in other countries. The truth, therefore, is that nobody is taking any land from anyone by force.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]