Atiku, PDP tender 26,000 result sheets for Katsina, Kano, Borno, six other states
Ade Adesomoju, Abuja

The Peoples Democratic Party and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, on Friday, tendered as exhibits about 26,175 documents used for the February 23, 2019 presidential election in eight states.

The documents comprising mainly the result sheets, as well as receipts for the documents’ certification by the Independent National Electoral Commission, were in respect of the poll conducted in Katsina, Kebbi, Borno, Jigawa, Gombe, Bauchi, Kaduna and Kano states.

The eight states added to Niger and Yobe states, which the petitioners had tendered similar documents in respect of earlier on Thursday.

The result sheets which were for the collated results at the polling unit, ward and local government levels in the respective states, are code-named Forms EC8A, EC8B and EC8C.

Atiku and the PDP, who are by their petition challenging President Muhammadu Buhari’s victory at the poll, tendered the documents through their lead counsel, Dr. Livy Uzoukwu (SAN), on Friday.

The respondents comprise the INEC, Buhari and his All Progressives Congress.

The INEC’s team was led by Yunus Usman (SAN); Buhari’s by Mike Igbokwe (SAN), and the APC’s by Charles Edosamwan (SAN).

In opposing the admissibility of the documents, they indicated that (as parties in the case agreed during the pre-hearing session) that they would give their reasons for their objection at the final address stage.

The Justice Mohammed Garba-led five-man tribunal adjourned further hearing till Monday.

Uzoukwu informed the tribunal that he would on Monday produce and tender the balance of the result sheets in respect of Kano State which were yet unavailable as of Friday.

He also indicated that he would complete the tendering of documents and start calling the petitioners’ witnesses on Monday.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]