We’re out of Abuja, Elumelu-led PDP Reps faction replies NWC invitation
Leke Baiyewu, Abuja

The Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Mr. Ndudi Elumelu, and other leaders of his factional Peoples Democratic Party caucus have said they won’t be able to answer the invitation by the National Working Committee of the party.

The lawmakers, who said they were out of Abuja, urged the PDP NWC to reschedule the meeting.

Apart from Elumelu, the NWC had also invited the member representing Oriade/Obokun Federal Constituency, Osun State, Wole Oke; member representing Onitsha North and Onitsha South Federal constituency, Anambra State, Lynda Ikpeazu; member representing Ezza North/Ishielu federal Constituency, Anayo Edwin; member representing Kaura Federal Constituency, Kaduna State, Gideon Gwani; member representing Aninri/Awgu/Oji River Federal Constituency, Enugu State, Toby Okechukwu; and member representing Ijebu North/Ijebu East/Ogun Waterside Federal Constituency, Adekoya Abdul-Majid.

SEE ALSO: Report erectile dysfunction immediately, physician tells men

However, in a letter by the Special Assistant to the Minority Leader, Sam Audu, dated July 5 and addressed to the National Secretary of PDP, the lawmakers asked for a later date to meet with the NWC.

The letter reads, “I am in receipt of a letter dated 4th July, 2019, inviting the House Minority Leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, Hon. Wole Oke, Hon. Lynda Ikpeazu, Hon. Anavo Edwin, Hon. Gideon Gwadi, Hon. Toby Okechukwu and Hon Adekoya Abdul-Majid to appear before the NWC of our party.

“I wish to inform you that the House Minority Leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, and other members invited are currently out of Abuja. Notwithstanding, I have notified him and other members about the letter of invitation and they requested that I notify you about their absence from Abuja.

“In the light of the above, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu and other members invited are requesting that the meeting should be rescheduled for either Thursday, 18th July at 4:00pm after plenary; or Friday, 19th July at 10:00am. Hon. Ndudi Elumelu and other members invited regret any inconvenience that their absence will cause the NWC.”

The Speaker, Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila, had, on Wednesday, read a letter by 99 opposition members across political parties which nominated Elumelu and others as minority principal officers; but the Kingsley Chinda-led faction had protested that Gbajabiamila refused to read the letter from the PDP, which had other nominees.

Both Elumelu and Chinda lay claims to being Majority Leaders.