AIB releases reports on Air Peace incidents
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Accident Investigation Bureau has released preliminary reports on incidents involving three aircraft owned and operated by Air Peace Limited.

The reports released by the AIB included Air Peace B737-300 aircraft with registration number 5N-BUK at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos on May 15, 2019 and the airline’s B737-500 aircraft with registration number 5N-BRN at Port Harcourt International Airport, Port Harcourt on June 22, 2019.

The AIB also released a report on the incident involving the airline’s B737-300 aircraft with registration number 5N-BQO at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos on July 23, 2019.

The AIB said the preliminary reports released on Thursday were not the final reports as they contained details of the initial facts, discussions and findings surrounding the occurrences which comprised information gathered from witness statements, flight recorders, Health and Usage Monitoring System Data, Flight Data Monitoring data, and preliminary inspection of the accident sites and the wreckage.

On the June 22 incident in Port Harcourt, the report found that after the pilot obtained landing clearance, it started drizzling but the runway lights were visible, the runway markings were identifiable and the Instrument Landing System was functional.

It also found that after touchdown on runway 21, the intensity of rain increased in strong winds, reducing visibility and causing the aircraft to loss directional control.

The AIB however said the reports were not conclusive as investigations were still ongoing.

“The investigations on these serious incidents are still ongoing and final reports on these occurrences will be released at the conclusion of these investigations,” the AIB said.

In its recommendations, the AIB urged the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority to ensure that all airline operators reviewed their Standard Operating Procedures.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]