PMI empowers SMEs with business management skills
Anna Okon

Operators in the Small and Medium Enterprise sector of the economy are set to benefit from skills that will help them grow their businesses.

The skills taught by members of the Project Management Institute will help them conduct their business in stages from the beginning to the end.

The President, PMI, Dr Lambert Ofoegbu, disclosed this in an interview with journalists in Lagos recently.

He said the organisation had a strong leaning towards youth empowerment and its members collaborated with other organisations supporting small businesses owned by youths to learn the basic steps of executing projects.

The PMI Educational Foundation Community Engagement Committee coordinator, Titiola Park, said, “We believe that grooming young business owners will bring sustainable impact and deepen our penetration.”

Park said the PMIEF was the philanthropic arm of the PMI providing at no-cost resources to the PMIEF chapter communities and global communities working in the various fields of social good.

She added, “For nearly 30 years, the PMIEF has helped put youths on the path to success by incorporating project management skills into their daily lives.

“The PMIEF is narrowing its strategic focus even more in order to make a greater impact and provide increased value to young people around the world by working through nonprofits.”

The Regional Mentor, Africa for PMI, Ike Nwankwo, explained that the PMI was a volunteer-based not-for-profit membership association for the project management profession, with over 500,000 members and over 1.5 million certification holders.

He said the body had presence in nearly every country around the world, with 14 PMI chapters in Africa, including the PMI Nigeria chapter.

According to him, the global body is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year, adding that its mission was to “advance careers, improve organisational success and further mature the profession of project management through its globally recognised standards, certification, resources, tools, academic researches, publications, professional development courses, and networking opportunities.”

He said the PMI was equipping people who had skills and capabilities that they needed to turn ideas into reality.

According to him, with these skills, organisations are able to deliver value to stakeholders through successful completion of projects; delivery of products and alignment to value streams; all of which are geared towards delivering financial and societal value.

The body held engagement with executive and senior stakeholders to facilitate discussions aimed at sharing best practices that would enable the project management profession to grow in Nigeria and address key points affecting the profession, he said.

According to Nwankwo, the PMI Nigeria chapter was founded in 2005 and has 800 members.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]