Mambilla: Ministers storm Chinese embassy, solicit funds
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

The Federal Government represented by three ministers has asked the Chinese government to expedite action on funding of the Mambilla Power Project.

Speaking during a visit to the Chinese Embassy in Abuja, the Minister of Power, Saleh Mamman, and his Water Resources counterpart, Suleiman Adamu, described the project as one of the legacy projects of President Muhammadu Buhari, which must be executed during his current tenure.

The Minister of State for Power, Jedi Agba, was also on the delegation to the Chinese Embassy in Abuja to impress the China EximBank to expedite action on the release of the project loan for the commencement of work.

Adamu said the environmental impact assessment on the project was being carried out, while a memorandum of understanding had been signed with the Taraba State Government for the payment of compensation to owners of land at the project site.

He assured his hosts that the Federal Ministry of Justice was already working on a comfort letter to the China EximBank as part of the Federal Government’s commitment.

The power minister insisted that the Chinese government had enough influence to impress on the EximBank to hasten the process as the project could not be frustrated by any arbitration.

READ ALSO: DSS receives court’s release warrants, holds Sowore, Bakare

In his response, the Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Zhou Pingjian, said his country would not encourage poor construction.

He advised the ministers to encourage the direct participation of the Chinese government or companies in some of its projects so as to reduce much borrowing and facilitate easier execution of projects.

He stated that although the Chinese government would not push the bank, it would try its best to impress on the bank to meet its commitments.

Meanwhile, the Nigeria Electricity Liability Management Limited says it has saved N66bn for the Federal Government through the management of liabilities in the country’s power sector.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]