SON to support manufacturers at Ogun trade zone
’Femi Asu

The Standards Organisation of Nigeria has said it will continue to support manufacturers at the Ogun-Guandong Free Trade Zone in Ogun State to meet the required 35 per cent minimum local value addition to products and improving products quality.

The Director-General, SON, Mr Osita Aboloma, who stated this during a working visit to the state, described the zone as an important economic area, according to a statement.

He said his visit was aimed at promoting and enhancing quality assurance and conformity assessment of products coming out of the zone, as well as promoting the ease of doing business with SON and Nigeria in line with the Federal Government’s policy.

He assured companies operating in the zone of expertise and professionalism from the organisation’s personnel as well as prompt attention and a quicker turnaround time.

According to Aboloma, the 35 per cent minimum local value addition to products manufactured within the free trade zone is stipulated by law to be carried out by SON, and is binding on all manufacturers and regulatory authorities operating within the zone.

The Sole Administrator, OGFTZ, Mr Juwon Falope, acknowledged the support of SON’s state office in Ota in ensuring prompt certification of products in the zone, especially on the 35 per cent minimum local value addition and necessary guidance in standards implementation.

He urged all regulatory agencies with oversight functions within the OGFTZ to close ranks to avoid rancour from overlap of functions, stressing the need to recognise one another as stakeholders in the ease of doing business in the country.

Responding on behalf of the Chinese manufacturers, the Deputy Manager, OGFTZ, Mr Daniel Chin, said about 30 companies with over 4,000 Nigerians and 250 Chinese were gainfully employed at various factories within the cluster.

He lauded SON for its efforts at leveraging the partnership to industrialise the nation through its technical support to the OGFTZ.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]