Firms get two weeks to issue commercial papers
’Femi Asu

The Central Bank of Nigeria has said companies must ensure that the proposed issuance of commercial papers is completed within the period of two weeks from the date of opening the issue for subscription.

The CBN said this in its ‘Guidelines on the Issuance and Treatment of Bankers Acceptances and Commercial Papers,’ which was released on Wednesday.

“In order to ensure uniform practice and correct treatment of Bankers Acceptances and Commercial Papers by banks and discount houses in Nigeria, it has become imperative to issue these guidelines, to deepen and facilitate the effective and efficient functioning of the Nigerian money market,” it said.

A BA is a draft drawn on and accepted by a bank, unconditionally ordering payment of a certain sum of money at a specified time in the future to the order of a designated party.

A CP is an unconditional promise by a person to pay to the order of another person a certain sum at a future date.

According to the CBN, BAs and CPs may be issued to and held by individuals, deposit money banks, other corporate bodies registered or incorporated in Nigeria and unincorporated bodies, non-resident Nigerians and foreign institutional investors.

It said any company proposing to issue the CPs should submit a proposal to the Issuing and Paying Agent with its rating report issued by a credit rating agency.

The apex bank said, “The IPA, on receipt of the proposal, shall scrutinise same and, on being satisfied, take the proposal on record or record the proposal in its blotter.

“After the exchange of deal confirmation between the IPA and the issuer, the IPA shall issue physical certificates to the investor or arrange for crediting the CP to the investor’s account with a Securities Depository. All IPAs issuing the CPs shall, within three working days from the date of completion of issue, advise the relevant Securities Depository on the amount of CPs actually issued.”

According to the guidelines, only a deposit money bank and discount house may act as an IPA for issuance of CP.

“The CP shall be issued at the primary market for a minimum value of N100m and in multiples of N50 million, thereafter. The CP shall be issued for maturities of between 15 days and 270 days, including rollover, from the date of issue,” the CBN said.

It said the face value of a BA might be equal to but should not exceed the financial value of the trade transaction stipulated in the supporting document(s).

“The tenor of the BA, including rollover, shall not exceed: (a) In the case of financing purchases, 365 days after execution of documents and acceptance by the bank. (b) In the case of financing sales, the shortest remaining credit period extended by the drawer (seller) to the purchaser(s) of the goods.(c) In the case of importation of capital goods, 365days and a final rollover of additional 180 days, subject to CBN approval,” the central bank said.

It added, “Non-compliance with these guidelines or any part thereof shall attract appropriate penalties as prescribed in Section 60 (1) of the Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act 1991(as amended) and may also include debarring from the BA or the CP market, or as may be prescribed by the CBN from time to time.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]