SDG targets’ll add $29bn to national income – Osinbajo
Success Nwogu, Abuja

The Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday said that meeting the nutrition targets of the Sustainable Development Goal can add up to 29bn to Nigeria’s national income.

The Vice President said the Global Panel on Agriculture and Food Systems for Nutrition in Africa also supported this position.

Osinabjo, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Health, Mr. Abdulazeez Abdullahi, spoke in Abuja during the 49th annual general meeting and scientific conference of the Nutrition Society of Nigeria.

Stressing that addressing nutrition in Nigeria was not such a social service, but an economic strategy, he said that the Muhammadu Buhari administration believed that innovative and optimum solutions could be harnessed in handling malnutrition in the country.

Osinbajo said, “Nutrition had been established to be paramount for human capital development throughout the human life course, but essentially during pregnancy, infancy and the first five years of life. Enhancing nutrition is a potent means of improving on our development indices for Nigeria, yet the nutritional indices in the country remains poor with marginal improvement over the last decades.

About a third of our children under the age of five are still stunted and this is unacceptable.

“One of the poverty alleviation and human capital development programmes initiated by this administration during its first term is the National Home-grown School Feeding Programme. Initial targets were rapidly exceeded as the programme grew to provide nutrition meals to 9.8 million pupils in over 53,000 public primary schools in 32 states.

“The programme also created jobs for over 106,000 cooks, who were trained and equipped to provide nutritional meals for the pupils. Sustainable income for farmers has also become an integral part of the value chain in this programme, as we work assiduously to link the farmers and aggregators with the cooks around the country, thereby assuring us of fresh and organic foods for our young children.”

The Emir of Kano, Alhaji Muhammad Sanusi, said there were still high cases of poverty and malnutrition in Nigeria.

Sanusi, who is also the Chairman, Board of Trustees of Nutrition Society of Nigeria, said his saddest day as the Emir was the day a woman lost her child while waiting at his palace for N3,000 assistance for drug for her then sick child.

He said, “This particular day as I was sitting on the throne, I heard a very loud scream from behind where I was and everybody heard it and I say go and check what it was. And when they came back, that scream was a scream of a woman who was waiting for her turn to ask the Emir for financial support to buy drugs for her infant child and while she was waiting, the child died in her arms.

“And how much was she looking for? It was less than N3,000. So if you want to know what it means to live on less than $1 a day, it is that as a woman you will watch your child die because you cannot afford drugs worth N3,000 and this is the country we are living in.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]