Expert outlines strategies to attract foreign investors
Feyisayo Popoola

The founder/Chief Strategist, Nicky Okoye Organisation, Dr Nicky Okoye, has outlined six strategies that can attract wealth/prosperity for Nigerian and African businesses.

Okoye, while speaking at the Global Capital Strategy Session in Anambra State, said the strategies, if adopted by entrepreneurs, would receive favourable attention from global capital institutional investors.

He cited the China Strategy, saying entrepreneurs could use it to gain from over 85 million jobs that would be leaving China for new manufacturing bases over the next five years, as China joined the high income countries.

Okoye said there was a need to have a digital strategy in which businesses would adopt a new digital profile and reposition using cutting-edge technologies of virtual reality, artificial intelligence, nano technology and robotics.

He said, “Another one is the agricultural strategy, which will convert strategic sites in Nigeria into a global base for processing and export of processed agricultural products, especially citing industrial processing estates for cassava, cashew, cocoa, sorghum, sesame seed and palm products.

“There is also a local content strategy, which has achieved success in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry. This needs to be extended beyond hydrocarbons.

“Another is the Africa Content Strategy. This will allow entrepreneurs and businesses to build capacity on the back of the Africa Continental Free Trade Area agreement currently being established.”

Okoye added that there was also the diaspora strategy which would give entrepreneurs and businesses the possibility to start looking at the $270bn in annual earnings of the Nigerians in diaspora population as a market.

He advised entrepreneurs to adopt a new approach to raising capital and investment, which he termed a ‘global capital strategy’.

He said, “Entrepreneurs should follow already designed and researched laid down procedures for achieving an investment-grade business structure, which includes a business excellence matrix, determined value proposition and a business strategy framework.”

Okoye noted that all the steps formed the basis for a successful global capital strategy and subsequent investment in business.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]