Envoy advises entrepreneurs on int’l market
Dayo Ojerinde

Nigeria’s High Commissioner to Canada, Mr Adeyinka Asekun, has stressed the need for Nigerian entrepreneurs to adopt global best practices for their products and services to compete effectively in the international markets.

Asekun said this during the opening ceremony of a three-day Transnational Ventures Acceleration programme organised by the University of Lagos.

He said the country needed more entrepreneurs who could create jobs and stop the teeming unemployed youths from relying on government for jobs.

“Our country is blessed with people that are entrepreneurial and enterprising. And I’ll like to see them have the opportunity to do their business in a structured manner. This kind of programme gives them the kind of tools, the exposure they require.

“What this Transnational Ventures Acceleration programme does is that it enables people to become successful entrepreneurs. It encourages people to create jobs and not just looking for jobs. The more people you have that can create businesses, the fewer people you have that are dependent on the government,” Asekun said.

The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, said the aim of the programme was to give business start-ups and the SMEs in Nigeria and Canada the opportunity to tap into the know-how and international networking that could make it possible to scale their businesses internationally.

“The motive of the programme is to meet the purpose for which the University of Lagos was set up. The second reason is to develop people in the area of entrepreneurship; the third is to expose them to the international standard of entrepreneurship, and lastly, to let them know about the opportunities outside Nigeria,” Ogundipe said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]