Help women attain leadership positions, WIMBIZ advises
Ife Ogunfuwa

Influential women leaders have been advised to use their position to help other women attain leadership positions.

Professional women in business and politics gave the advice in Lagos on Thursday at the 18th Annual Conference of Women in Management, Business and Public Service.

The Wife of Ekiti State Governor, Bisi Adeleye-Fayemi, in her keynote address, urged women leaders to create an agenda that would ensure empowerment and inclusion of women in active roles.

She spoke at the conference chaired by the Chief Judge, Federal High Court of Nigeria, Justice Rosaline Ukeje.

“We need to have an agenda to ensure that the positions we occupy are not wasted. We need to leave an identifiable legacy behind. Let us be politically engaged,” she said.

“Let us take an active interest in what goes on in our communities. Let us all prepare for life’s transition because we won’t be young forever. Every woman needs a wrapper, which signifies love, affection and kindness; so, let us bring out our wrappers,” Adeleye-Fayemi added.

The Chairperson, Executive Council, WIMBIZ, Mrs Olubunmi Aboderin-Talabi, said the conference’s theme, ‘Shaping the Future: Strategising to Win’, aimed to point out the inherent ability that was latent within each human being in order to make something out of their future.

“We all have the capacity to be proactive in shaping the outcome of our lives. Being reactionary or passive limits the range of our choices. If we do not deliberately take steps to shape the future we desire for ourselves, our family and our community, then it’s as though we have inadvertently given other people the permission to determine how our lives turn out,” she added.

Aboderin-Talabi said the delegates would gain practical insights into how to develop winning strategies to secure their seats on the board of organizations; and discover how to collaborate to win and gain a deeper understanding of consumer behaviour, among others, during the two-day conference.

The Chief Executive Officer, Verod Capital, Danladi Verheijen; Founding Partner, Banwo and Ighodalo, Asue Ighodalo; and the CEO, Brittania-U Nigeria Limited, Uju Ifejika, who were panelists at the conference encouraged women to leverage their relations in the family, school and birthplace to attain leadership positions.

At a session moderated by the Chairman of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, Abimbola Ogunbanjo, the discussants, who addressed the topic ‘Collaborating to win: Navigating the Old Boys Club’, affirmed that women needed to be hardworking, passionate and have access to networks in order to be among key decision-makers in their organisations.

Business leaders at another session entitled ‘Our seat at the table’ said workplaces needed to develop deliberate, fair and transparent policies that would encourage the growth and promotion of women.

The discussants made up of the Managing Director, Cadbury Nigeria Plc Cluster Director, Oyeyimika Adeboye; Consul General, United States Consulate, Claire Pierangelo; and former acting Vice Chancellor, Lagos State University, Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, emphasised the need of a support system in order to achieve family work balance.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]