FG to train youths in ship building
Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja

The Federal Government on Wednesday said it would partner Concept Amadeus Limited to train Nigerian youths in the manufacturing of ship and vessel, saying that it was part of the nation’s efforts to create jobs for the people.

A statement signed by the Deputy Director, Press and Public Relations, Ministry of Labour and Employment, Rhoda Iliya, said this was disclosed during a meeting between the Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo (SAN), and a delegation of some nationals of Greece, which was facilitated by the company.

A the meeting, Keyamo said, “The Federal Government has to know in clear terms what the obligations of government entail, the categories of people to be trained and if the use of government’s skills acquisition centres would be required.

“The FG has decided that the best way to lift people out of poverty is not only to give them letters of employment but to provide them with skills to make them entrepreneurs.”

Senior Special Assistant to the President on Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Ita Enang, who was also at the meeting, said the group had met other ministries, departments and agencies, as well as some National Assembly members on the project.

He said, “President Muhammadu Buhari has launched the project as one of the arms of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan. It is a nationally accepted project and the company is ready to work with the ministry to get the Nigerian youths out of unemployment.

“Ships and vessels will be built in Nigeria. Nigerians will be trained in the country in commercial fishing and this will give the country larger opportunities to engage the citizens, especially the youths, in modern ways of fishing that can take them out of unemployment.”

Leader of the delegation, Patrick Osobase, said the team was in the ministry to seek its cooperation on the project, noting that it was aimed at providing a platform for Nigerians to be entrepreneurs.

He said that with the FG’s ratification of new boundaries, the country had been presented with an opportunity to tap into the blue ocean economy.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]