NDE gives loans to Ondo graduates
Peter Dada, Akure

The National Directorate of Employment on Wednesday gave out loans to 11 graduates under the Environmental Beatification Training scheme in Ondo State.

The directorate also said no fewer than 50 unemployed youths had had been undergoing training in poultry management, vegetable gardening and other crop production in the state.

The National Director of NDE, Dr Muhammed Argungu, stated this at the disbursement of resettlement loans and tools to the beneficiaries in Akure, the state capital.

It was gathered that out of the 11 beneficiaries, three of them learnt hard landscaping; three were into soft landscaping and five learnt making of plaster of Paris.

Argungu, who was represented by the Ondo State Coordinator of the NDE, Mr Dare Awoyoka, explained that each of those that learnt hard landscaping got N84,395; soft landscaping trainees received N110,580 each, while those who learnt how to make plaster of Paris got N123,103 each .

According to the NDE boss, the directorate had used the EBTS initiative to offer young school leaver participants employability skills and experiential learning that transferred hard and soft landscaping skills to them on the job while serving with experienced landscaping service providers in the informal sector.

He said the NDE had begun the implementation of sustainable agricultural development training scheme at its farm settlement called Agricultural Skills Training Centre in Mariwo village in the Ifedore Local Government Area of Ondo State.

He said, “Over 100 unemployed persons on September 30, 2019 reported for the orientation and flag-off at this training centre but 50 of the participants would be selected to undergo the training in poultry management, vegetable gardening and other crop production in three months.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]