FG backs Greek investment in industrial fishing
Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja

the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba, has said the decision of Concept Amadeus/Greek Technical Partners to establish industrial fishing projects in the Niger Delta will create jobs for the people.

Agba said the projects would contribute to the growth and diversification of the Nigerian economy and especially bolster the achievement of self-sufficiency in fish production.

He said these when representatives of Concept Amadeus/Greek Technical Partners led by the Group Chairman, Alabo Wokoma, visited him in Abuja.

The minister, according to a statement from the ministry on Wednesday, said government was pleased with the development and would give its support to the project.

Agba said investments in the Niger-Delta region would help to reduce youth restiveness through creation of jobs and fostering of economic activities in the region.

He said, “I am particularly impressed by this initiative, which shows that a lot can happen when there is partnership between the government and the private sector.

“The Concept Amadeus/Greek Partnership was one of the good things that came out of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan Focus Labs, which was organised by the Federal Government from January to May 2018.

The minister expressed confidence that the project, when fully operational, would help to promote the nation’s self-sufficiency in food and fish production.

He also said it would help realise President Muhammadu Buhari’s promise of lifting 100 million people out of poverty in 10 years through its capacity to create jobs along the value chain.

Wokoma, in his remarks, informed the minister that it was contributions from the ERGP’s team that enabled them to remodel the business model to now make it a fully-Nigerian affair.

According to him, the arrangement would ensure that state-of-the-art fishing vessels would be built in Nigeria to enable processing and packaging of fish in line with European Union standards.

Wokoma also said that each of fishing plants was expected to service over 110 fishermen and provide jobs to over 3,500 people.

He stated that the project, apart from involving the building of the fishing vessels in Nigeria, would also include a component for training young Nigerians in the art fishing.

The training, he said, would be organised by the University of Patras in Greece.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]