Marketers decry rise in cooking gas price
Femi Asu

the Nigerian Association of Liquefied Petroleum Gas Marketers said on Monday that terminal operators and importers had increased the price of 20 metric tonnes of Liquefied Petroleum Gas, popularly known as cooking gas, by 33 per cent to N4.2m.

The Executive Secretary, NALPGAM, Mr Bassey Essien, who disclosed this on Wednesday, expressed the association’s concern over the sudden rise in the price of the commodity despite the concerted efforts of the government and stakeholders to deepen the usage of LPG in the country.

“Within the last one week, LPG price has soared so astronomically that it beats the imagination of marketers as to the cause,” he said at a press briefing in Lagos.

He said with the price hike, consumers would have to pay more for the commodity.

Essien said, “The consumers will in turn want to blame marketers who unfortunately are also caught up in the web of price hikes. Within a five-day period, the price of a 20MT of LPG, which hitherto sold for N3.15m, suddenly jumped to N3.5m, N3.9m and within a few hours moved to N4.2m despite the fact that the same product has been in the storages of these terminals when price was even under N3.5m; so why the sudden upsurge?

“At this time of the year in the past, price hikes used to be attributable to winter season and increased demand for heating energy and international price index. And we have consistently questioned why a product in abundance in our country should become such a victim of any slightest issue occurring internationally.”

According to Essien, efforts to extract the cause of the sudden price increase from the terminal operators have not been met with any positive response.

He said, “At one of the terminals, there was an outright denial of any price increase; however, price of LPG has been moved from N3.9m to N4.2m. The head of LPG sales at the company insisted that the company had no stock, but when asked to explain the sudden price increase to N4.2m when the company had no stock, he was evasive.

“Some marketers who had paid down for LPG when the price was N3.45m but were awaiting loading were being intimidated with refund of their money except they agreed to pay the difference in the new price despite having tied down their funds without loading their trucks.

“At another terminal, it (price hike) was attributed to the interplay of the forces of demand and supply; the operator said demand had outstripped supply. Elsewhere, importers have also attributed the low supply to delay in accessing foreign exchange from the Central Bank of Nigeria.”

The association said the development had adversely affected business planning, adding, “If the trend is not halted immediately, the price of a 12.5kg cylinder of cooking gas may soon sell for over N6,000 and well out of the purchasing power of the average consumer.

“We cannot deepen the use of LPG if availability of the product is not guaranteed. We are calling on the Nigeria LNG Limited to flood the market with cooking gas since it has the capacity to do so, and increase the frequency with which the vessels deliver LPG from Bonny to the terminals.

NALPGAM stressed the need for importers to free the PPMC depot in Lagos for the delivery of NLNG product allocation.

“The NLNG should supply LPG to other coastal terminals outside Lagos to reduce the inherent pressure on the terminals in the South West. The NLNG should deploy vessels of smaller capacities to access the coastal terminals if product availability must be achieved,” it added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]