Stakeholders to examine Nigeria’s energy access gap
FEMI ASU

Stakeholders will converge on Lagos next week to proffer solutions to the challenges facing the power sector, Future Energy Nigeria has said.

The Business Development Director, Future Energy Nigeria, Mr Ade Yesufu, said the forthcoming conference and exhibition would focus on bridging the country’s energy access gap, the role of off-grid generation projects, among other important issues.

Yusuf said at a press conference in Lagos that the programme had been endorsed by the Federal Ministry of Power.

“I was particularly encouraged that the power ministry reiterated the Federal Government’s determination to revive the power sector,” he said.

He said a high-level panel discussion would focus on the off-grid projects of the Rural Electrification Agency, from increasing access rates to their positive impact in the communities.

Yusuf said, “Nigeria is taking ownership of its power deficit and is taking charge of its energy future. The new initiatives by the government present unlimited opportunities for stakeholders across the entire power sector value chain, including metering, billing and revenue collection, technology and service providers, financiers, manufacturers and suppliers across the sector.”

According to him, the programme will connect power and energy professionals working together to advance a sustainable energy economy.

He said, “With the highest GDP in Africa and still growing at an impressive rate, businesses across Nigeria are looking to innovative solutions to create their own stable and viable power solutions.

“Investments in mini grids contribute towards rural electrification and the Meter Asset Provider initiative was introduced by the Nigerian Energy Regulatory Commission to address the end-user metering gap with regard to financing, procurement, installation, servicing/maintenance and replacement of metering equipment.”

He said stakeholders would also look at recapitalisation of distribution companies and NERC’s electricity distribution franchising and MAP initiatives.

Yusuf said, “Future Energy Nigeria’s free and very practical Knowledge Hub sessions on the exhibition floor aim to assist power professionals and senior engineering students to become familiar with the latest technology and current trends and thereby addressing the skills gap and advancing capacity building to propel Nigeria’s power sector.

“The training will provide a platform to accelerate entrepreneurial spirit in off-grid solar where participants can roll up their sleeves and get stuck in the ‘A-Z of installing solar panels’.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]