Capital projects suffer N2.1tn underfunding in four years
Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja

the Federal Government recorded a funding gap of N2.1tn in the implementation of capital projects of Ministries, Departments and Agencies within a four-year period covering 2015 to 2018.

The amount was arrived at based on an analysis of the annual budget of each year and the respective budget implementation reports.

Figures obtained from the Budget Office of the Federation showed that during the four-year period, the total amount allocated for capital projects was N7.5tn, while the actual amount released during the period was estimated at N5.4tn.

This resulted in a funding shortfall of about N2.1tn during the four-year period.

In the 2015 fiscal period, about N722.2bn was allocated for capital projects out of which N557bn was actually released. This resulted in a funding gap of N165.2bn.

In the 2016 budget, the sum of N1.58tn was allocated for capital projects out of the total annual budget of N6.06tn.

From the N1.58tn budgeted for capital projects in 2016, the sum of N1.21tn was released, leaving a deficit of N368bn.

Further analysis of the data from Budget Office revealed that out of the N2.36tn allocated for capital projects in 2017, N1.56tn was actually released by the government. This resulted in a funding shortfall of about N800bn.

In 2018, the government released the sum of N2.07tn for capital projects execution out of the budgeted amount of N2.87tn. This caused a funding gap of N800bn.

The amount, which was released by the Ministry of Finance to cover various capital projects as approved in the national budget of each of the four years, exclude the trillions of naira spent on recurrent expenditure.

Findings revealed that the inability of the Federal Government to effectively fund the capital components of the annual budgets was due to revenue shortfall.

In the 2018 fiscal period, for instance, the government could only achieve 58 per cent of its budgeted revenue target.

The Minister of Finance had said the government needed to increase its revenue-generating capacity to be able to effectively finance its programmes.

The minister had said, “The underperformance of our revenue is causing a significant strain in our ability to service debt and to service government day-to-day recurrent expenditure and that is why all the work we are doing at the Ministry of Finance is concentrating on driving the increase in revenue.”

When asked why the Federal Government decided to increase the revenue projection in the 2020 budget to N8.9tn at a time when government revenue performance was less than 60 per cent, she said a lot of measures were being put in place to correct the anomaly.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]