Ferry firm targets 30% Lagos commuters
Femi Makinde

Lagos State Ferry Services Corporation has said it is aiming to transport 30 per cent of commuters in the state in order to decongest the roads.

The Managing Director of the corporation, AbdoulBaq Ladi-Balogun, said this when the General Manager of Lagos Traffic Radio, Mr Tayo Akanke, led the management of the station to visit him in his office.

This is contained in a statement issued on Tuesday by Akanle.

Akanle had said the station management team visited the corporation as part of its efforts to raise awareness of other means transportation in the state in order to ease the gridlock on the roads.

He said, “Our target is to achieve a 30 per cent movement of Lagos commuters on the waterways as soon as possible. This corporation has one of the best ferries just as we would soon take possession of more ferries.

“We will play a significant role in the multi-modal transportation initiative of the present administration under the leadership of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, especially as it aims at decongesting the roads.”

The managing director said the multi-modal transportation initiative of the Sanwo-Olu administration involving water, rail and road would be in full effect within the next two years.

The Traffic Radio general manager had earlier assured the corporation of the station’s readiness to sensitise commuters to the benefits of movement on waterways.

Akanle said, “The partnership we are seeking will be of immense benefit to Lagos commuters.

“It will also lay credence to the commitment of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to deliver a reliable, safe, efficient and effective transportation system that will enhance mass movement of Lagosians.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]