NNPC seeks to bridge power shortfall
FEMI ASU

7The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation has said its decision to diversify into power sector is hinged on the need to bridge the huge energy gap in the country.

“Under ongoing reforms, the corporation is transforming from a traditional oil and gas entity into an integrated energy outfit with interest in power generation and transmission,” the Group Managing Director, NNPC, Mr Mele Kyari, said during the NNPC Special Day at the ongoing 2019 Lagos International Trade Fair.

Kyari said the new attitude had seen the corporation reinvigorate its long-held drive for the development of biofuels in Nigeria through partnership with core investors to create low-carbon economy and link the oil and gas sector to the agricultural sector.

He said, “This is also to aid in mitigating the adverse effect of climate change and fast-track transformation of the NNPC into an energy company with a cocktail of product portfolios.

“Apart from our fiduciary responsibility to the government and Nigerians, the NNPC stands out as the chief enabler of the Nigerian economy. To sustain this role, the NNPC’s approach through the years is ensuring value addition by increasing competitiveness in the global marketplace.”

The GMD, who was represented by the Managing Director, National Engineering & Technical Company Limited, Mrs Catherine Iheme, said, “For instance, our ability to guarantee seamless nationwide supply and distribution of petroleum products had been enhanced with the introduction of some strategies aimed at enhancing the operational efficiency of our downstream entities.

“The result is a sanitised fuel supply and distribution network, which has thus far banished the ugly episodes of petroleum products’ scarcity and snaky fuel queues across the country.

“The same enablement by the corporation exists in respect of gas supply to industries, especially in industrial districts of Lagos, keeping industries running, guaranteeing the employment of workers and impacting positively the economy of the nation.”

The President, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr Babatunde Ruwase, described the NNPC as an enabler state agency for the nation’s economy.

Ruwase, who was represented by the group’s Deputy President, Mrs Toki Mabogunje, stressed the need to rejig the nation’s oil and gas sector to make it globally competitive.

He said, “Protracted delay in the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill and weak commitment to the reform of the sector continue to stifle investment in the upstream and downstream segments of the sector.

“Enabling reforms are necessary to put an end to the protracted problem of petroleum subsidy and the phenomenon of under recovery that currently imposes huge burden on government finances.”

The LCCI president also highlighted the need to implement necessary oil and gas sector reforms to unlock the vast potential in the sector for investment, jobs, revenue, backward integration and economic diversification.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]