Reps probe PPMC, PPPRA over petrol price disparity 
Leke Baiyewu, Abuja

The House of Representatives has begun investigating Petroleum Products Marketing Company Limited and the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency over the disparity in the prices of petrol sold to marketers.

At the plenary on Wednesday, two members, Olusegun Odebunmi and Abubakar Fulata, moved a motion alleging that the PPMC was selling at N125.65k per litre to the major oil marketers and at N133.28 per litre to independent marketers.

The lawmakers unanimously adopted the motion entitled, ‘Need to Check the Discriminatory Practices of the Petroleum Products Marketing Company Limited and the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency against the Independent Petroleum Marketers on the Sale of Premium Motor Spirit.’

They mandated the House Committee on Petroleum Resources (Downstream) to investigate the matter “with a view to ensuring a uniform pricing regime for all concerned marketers and report back within four weeks for further legislative action.”

Moving the motion, Odebunmi noted that while the the PPMC, a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, had the responsibility of coordinating the distribution of petroleum products in the downstream sector, the PPPRA, another subsidiary of the NNPC, had the responsibility of fixing prices of petroleum products.

Odebunmi said, “There are two blocks of marketers in the downstream sector of the nation’s petroleum industry, namely the major marketers and the independent marketers.

“The House is disturbed that the PPMC, being the coordinator of petroleum products distribution in the downstream sector, is selling the PMS to the two blocks at different prices; major marketers at N125.65k per litre and selling to the independent marketers at N133.28 per litre.

“The House is concerned that since members of the two blocks are selling the products to retailers in the same market, the discriminatory prices have been affecting the participatory capacity of the independent marketers in the market as well as impoverishing them against their counterparts in the sector.”

He added that the House was desirous of the need to check the discriminatory practices of the PPMC in order to give all concerned marketers a sense of belonging.

Also, the House mandated the Committee on Petroleum (Upstream) to interface with the community leaders as well as the oil companies operating in Ovade-Oghara community with a view to addressing the effects of their operations in the area.

The resolutions were passed following the adoption of a motion moved by Ben Igbakpa, entitled, ‘An Urgent Need to Contain and Clean up the Oil Spillage at Ovade-Oghara in the Ethiope West Local Government Area of Delta State.’

Ovade-Oghara is the host community to Pan Ocean Flow Station with over 50 operational wells spanning over 47years.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]