Nigeria’s travel business growing fast, says Wakanow boss
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Chief Executive Officer of Wakanow, Mr Adebayo Adedeji, says travel business in the country has recorded significant growth.

He stated that Nigerian travellers had become more innovative in travel and tourism and this had propelled growth in the industry.

“Travel business is growing in Nigeria and the customers are changing. Back in the days we had to go to the market to get items; but now, things are simpler. These days, you can go online and buy travel,” he said.

Adedeji said that as part of its drive to reach more Nigerians, Wakanow planned to expand into more cities.

According to him, due to demand from Nigerian travellers, the agency fuses both online and offline to improve travel and tourism.

“We will be opening in Asaba, Aba and Nnewi and we will continue to expand across the country to Katsina, Kaduna, Maiduguri, Sokoto and some other places through strategic partnership so that people can walk into a centre and get service without a phone call,” he said.

Adedeji, who recently took over as the firm’s CEO, said Wakanow also planned to create more pathways for travel business in Nigeria.

He said, “I am excited to innovate on behalf of the customer. We’ve been able to move the company forward in the last eight months since I came on board with the vision of the founders on what they have built and I want to do more.

“The cardinal focus will be on customer satisfaction, innovation, expansion and automation. The primary goal is to ensure that customers not only get the best, but to also add value to travel products and services from the moment of first contact, online or offline.”

According to him, the company’s strength lies in its innovation travel solutions, from payment plan for travel products to automated flight reminder, airline liquidation insurance, lost baggage insurance, seat selection, airport protocol service and so much more.

“We understand our customers so we want to leverage that and go to where our customers are. We have been able to form alliances with our partners and through this, we understand our market better,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]