Safety: NAMA sets up navigation planning unit
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Nigerian Airspace Management Agency has created a National Air Navigation Planning unit, vested with the mandate to oversee the domestication and replication of the International Civil Aviation Organisation’s global and regional plans for the enhancement of air navigation in the country.

The agency said it was also created in a bid to facilitate the development and implementation of a National Air Navigation Plan, National Aviation System Block Upgrade Plan, National Air Traffic Management Plan as well as other ICAO new concepts in Nigeria.

The Director of Operations, NAMA, Matthew Pwajok, said 20 personnel had been trained to run the newly created unit.

Pwajok said the unit and personnel training were critical as the personnel would be researching to define future NAMA and airspace user requirements, in order to enhance airspace capacity, air traffic management capacity, efficiency and economy and safety of flight operations.

He said, “If we must encourage traffic growth into our airspace, then we must develop strategic growth plans, be sensitive to airline equipage and their user requirements.

“We need not reinvent the wheel as ICAO has developed adequate strategies for the enhancement of capacity, safety, security and efficiency. We must therefore domesticate these global plans into national plans for implementation in accordance with global, regional or national timelines and priorities.”

He explained that the team would be required to work towards ensuring the effective implementation of the three major global plans of ICAO which were Global Air Navigation Plan, Global Aviation Safety Plan and Global Aviation Security Plan.

Pwajok added, “ICAO is drawing global attention to emerging challenges such as cyberthreats or cybersecurity. Therefore, we must develop a security plan for our communication, navigation and surveillance/air traffic management facilities. If these systems are hacked, safety and security could be compromised. Thus, the air navigation planning team will work in collaboration with other agencies as the implementation of some of these ICAO concepts require collaboration with sister agencies.

“The team will equally interrelate with some ICAO structures such as the Air Navigation Bureau, Technical Cooperation Bureau and Air Transport Bureau, Regional Aviation Safety Group and the AFI Planning and Implementation Regional Group, the decision, resolution and conclusions of which impact on our services.”

He said, for the implementation of the ICAO recommendations to be more effective, NAMA needed a team that would understand the workings of ICAO bodies as they were the technical work of ICAO that could affect the agency directly.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]