Air accident investigation group plans membership expansion
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Commissioner, Banjul Accord Group Accident Investigation Agency, Mr Charles Erhueh, says the group plans to work with member states to strengthen its systems and capacity to enable it to independently carry out its mandate in a more efficient manner.

Erhueh said this would be done by increasing the number of members and ensure capacity building, accessibility of data and information to members.

The new commissioner was quoted to have made this known at the fourth BAGAIA meeting in Cape Verde, where he stated that the group would work to earn the confidence of all member states and bring all eligible states on board through proactive inclusiveness.

Erhueh explained that he understood the funding challenges some states might have but stated that it was important for them to see the significance of BAGAIA to be part of the agency.

He said, “My job is to work with member states to strengthen systems and capacities to be able to independently carry out mandate in a more efficient manner. My job is to make sure we have more members – and we are going to begin with reaching out to other countries in Africa.

“We will work assiduously to earn the confidence of all member states and bring all eligible states on board through proactive inclusiveness. My job is to make sure that capacity is built among member states and we start by coming up with training programmes that will give each member state at least the basic or foundational knowledge in accident’s investigation.”

He stated that capacity building would prepare member states so that when accident or serious incident occurred, they would be capable of handling the occurrences.

“My job is to ensure accessibility in areas of information and knowledge exchange. We will create platforms for member states to get first-hand information that may become useful for improving respective aviation industry,” he added.

Erhueh said he recognised that funding maybe an issue as there were outstanding payments from some member states but that the agency needed to create essential benefits for members’ states to see reasons to be part of BAGAIA.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]