ICL unveils new technology for measuring advert performance
Anna Okon

Interaction Channel Limited has unveiled a new solution that will give clients performance data about their campaigns on billboards.

The new solution, according to ICL, will complement for the lack of adequate data on the efficiency of out-of-home campaigns.

The firm said it recently signed a partnership deal with Moving Walls to provide upscale location intelligence for media and marketing services.

At ICL’s first event on location data for marketing decision makers held in Lagos recently, with the theme, Location Data Meets OOH Media, some experts noted that dynamic media and content planning would be made easy for clients and brands that would leverage on the real time data that the ICL solution offers.

According to the creators, the technology can deliver real value in the fifth generation cutting-edge-technology era.

The Managing Director, ICL, Tosan Omagbemi, said the technology lifestyle solution would aid marketers and sales personnel deploy their consumer initiatives with a higher level of precision.

He added that a robust synergy was now possible across media types, such as OOH Media + Mobile. Brands can now measure, optimise and track campaign effectiveness. Advertisers will be able to customise audience segments and use the understanding of time belt to reach specific audiences, he said.

“What we provide is location intelligence. That solution goes beyond traditional OOH media to other non-OOH traditional opportunities including in-mall, etc. We help advertisers/brands understand points of interests where consumers visit and match them with advertising opportunities to best expose brand campaigns. We provide technology to drive optimal campaigns,” he explained.

Speaking on why the event was targeted at OOH, he said “We decided to speak to out-of home specifically today because as we are all aware, out-of-home takes a lot of the marketing budget and it is in the forefront of offline media investment.

“However, there has not been a proper attribution of audiences to OOH locations and there is no scientific knowledge of performance, so we decided to talk about out-of-home today. The technology solution however can deliver on a numbers of variables including; retail analytics and event measurement ”

Also speaking, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Moving Walls, Srikanth Ramachandran, said, “Advertisers have bought media for so long, it’s time to begin to buy audiences – time to reach your real target audience. We are optimistic that our technology solution would serve as a catalyst for growth.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]