We’ve improved internal control to check fraud – NDIC
Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja

The Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation said it had improved the level of internal control to check fraudulent practices in its operations.

NDIC’s Managing Director/Chief Executive, Umaru Ibrahim, said this during the inauguration of four new members to the corporation’s Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit.

The inauguration was done by the Chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission at the NDIC’s head office in Abuja.

Ibrahim, who was represented by the Executive Director, Corporate Services, Omolola Abiola-Edewor, said the agency had adopted zero tolerance for corruption and all forms of malpractices.

He said the corporation had established a culture of zero tolerance for corruption by implementing strict operational procedures and guidelines geared towards instilling transparency and accountability in the workplace.

Ibrahim described the inauguration of the new members as an extension of the NDIC’s commitment towards maintaining high anti-corruption standards.

This, he stated, had been strengthened by the core values of honesty, respect and fairness, discipline, professionalism, teamwork and passion.

He explained that the inauguration of the new members had further strengthened the corporation’s partnership with the ICPC and other government agencies involved in the anti-corruption fight.

This, he noted, would help promote credible and effective service delivery in the public sector.

The Chairman of the ICPC, who was represented by an assistant director and Head of the ICPC Anti-Corruption Unit, Mr Justin Kuatsea, said ACTU was established in other government agencies to curb corrupt practices as well as implement transparent processes and procedures in the public sector.

He expressed optimism that the addition of new members to the unit would improve synergy and effective collaboration between the unit, the NDIC and the ICPC.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]