NASS’ll support FG in reviving Ajaokuta — Wase
Leke Baiyewu, Abuja

The Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Wase, has said the National Assembly will give the Federal Government all the necessary support towards reviving the Ajaokuta Steel Company.

Wase stated this in Abuja on Tuesday while the Committee of Deans of Engineering and Technology of Nigerian Universities, led by Abubakar Baba-Aliyu, visited him.

This was contained in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Umar Puma.

The Deputy Speaker assured the academia of the National Assembly’s determination to partner with the President Muhammadu Buhari-led executive towards repositioning the country on the path of growth.

Wase said, “I want to say that the parliament as a whole will support every course that will sustain our country’s effort towards the attainment of infrastructural development for our country.

“On the issue you raised, even during the last Assembly, as a parliament, we pushed for the resuscitation of Ajaokuta Steel complex even to the extent of appropriating money, and said ‘this should be done.’ But those who didn’t see the wisdom then are beginning to see the wisdom today.

“Today, no country can grow without that type of asset that is the manufacturing of those things that will help us in our quest for industrial growth.”

He added, “So, for us as a parliament of the people, we are here to support you; we are on the same page with President Buhari; we are on the same page with the leadership of the country who want to have a change regarding how things had been.”

Earlier in his presentation, Baba-Aliyu said the committee, which is made up of four different organs, had a message for the deputy speaker; that as an engineer, he should help stimulate industrial growth through manufacturing.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]