Only 21% registered vehicles have genuine insurance — Cornerstone
Rasheed Bisiriyu and Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Only 2.5 million out of the 12 million registered vehicles in Nigeria have genuine insurance, a report by Cornerstone Insurance Plc has indicated.

The report, by implication, shows that 20.8 per cent of the 12 million registered vehicles have genuine insurance covers.

The Ikeja Branch Manager of the firm, Pelumi Akindumusire, who gave the information, noted that majority of the vehicle insurance policies that had been obtained by motorists were fake.

“Not many vehicle owners are aware of this, but it has been proved that only 2.5 million have genuine insurance cover out of the 12 million registered vehicles in the country. So it’s very important vehicle owners patronize genuine insurance companies.

“It is not as if those motorists do not possess insurance certificates, but the policies they have are fake,” he said.

He advised motorists not to patronise touts in purchasing or renewing their vehicle documents so as not to fall victim.

He said that was why the insurance industry decided to introduce the Nigerian Insurance Industry Database as a way to address the problem.

According to him, as a way of breaking the ignorance among motorists and the necessity of obtaining genuine third party insurance policy, Cornerstone has taken the campaign to motor parks in Lagos.

He said this was to sensitise commercial drivers to the need to acquire the third party insurance policy as well as acquaint them with its benefits.

Akindumusire said the industry had also partnered officials of the Vehicle Inspection Services and the Federal Road Safety Corps to monitor fake insurance policyholders.

“On the NIID platform, when a motorist inputs his policy number or the vehicle’s registration number on the app, it will bring out the insurance details of the vehicle. This signifies that the policy is genuine. If it does not appear, it will say record not found implying that the policy is a fake one,” he said.

He stated that to improve on the effort the industry had been making, Cornerstone decided to educate drivers on the need for genuine motor insurance cover starting with the third party motor insurance policy for commercial drivers.

He said in view of this, a team from the Cornerstone Insurance Plc would be going to motor parks in Lagos to educate drivers on the need for insurance cover with the aim of selling the third party cover to them eventually.

Akindumusire said, “My team and I intend to cover majority of the garages in Lagos State to sensitise the motorists to the need for insurance because of its numerous benefits. Many of them do not know the importance; but they only see it as ‘police let me pass’; whereas there are many benefits attached to it.

“We have already done a pilot job on this. We want to do this on a monthly or quarterly basis by visiting different garages each month such as Ojota, Surulere, Ikeja and Ogba in Lagos.”

He said the firm also planned to engage commercial tricycle riders to encourage them to have personal accident (insurance) policies.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]