Phillips consulting urges states to adopt strategic alliances
Nike Popoola

Phillips Consulting, an indigenous management, business and digital technology consulting firm, has urged state governments to begin to enter into strategic alliances in order to support the Federal Government’s initiatives that will help tackle unemployment and create jobs.

The Managing Director, Phillips Consulting, Mr Robert Taiwo, said this during the monthly meeting of Nigerian-South African Chamber of Commerce in Lagos.

In a statement, he said in Nigeria, there had not been many of such strategic partnerships both in the private and public sector.

“We rather have several siloed businesses and short-lived enterprises. However, the current challenges in the business community and the lack of fund accruing to states, have created the imperative for collaboration in both public and private sectors,” he said.

He added that, “In 2020, to support the Federal and State government initiatives of addressing unemployment and creating jobs, Phillips Consulting will work in collaboration with its content partners to deliver free online training worth N75m on specialised IT certifications to 500 Nigerian youths across the country.”

In the quest to kickstart such strategic collaborative partnership between key states in Nigeria, Phillips Consulting, used the monthly breakfast meeting of the NSACC as a platform to announce the birth of a strong alliance/partnership between Lagos and Ogun state government.

The statement said the governors of both states participated in a panel session moderated by the Chairman of Phillips Consulting, Foluso Phillips, at the event.

It added that the Lagos/Ogun Partnership Alliance model was targeted at addressing issues such as decongestion of Lagos State, development of a Land Port, rail and water transportation between both states, Private Public Partnership funding for infrastructural development, and a grand masterplan for the integration of both states.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]