Putin honours Afreximbank president, Oramah
Samuel Awoyinfa

Russian President,Vladimir Putin, on Monday in Moscow bestowed the national honour of ‘The Order of Friendship’ on the President of African Export-Import Bank, Prof. Benedict Oramah.

A statement obtained on Tuesday indicated that the Nigeria-born Oramah was bestowed with the award during a ceremony held in the Kremlin, seat of the government of the Russian Federation, and was witnessed by senior members of the government and other dignitaries.

It stated further that the Order of Friendship is awarded to Russian and foreign nationals for special merit in strengthening peace, friendship, cooperation and understanding between nations.

It is also awarded for fruitful work on the convergence and mutual enrichment of cultures of nations and peoples. Established by the first president of the Russian Federation, Boris Yeltsin, the award is a state decoration that recognises active conservation, development and promotion of the cultural and historical heritage of Russia.

“It is, specifically, in recognition of the role played by Afreximbank in revitalising trade and economic relations between Africa and Russia as evident in the success of the Russia-Africa Summit and Economic Forum held in Sochi, Russian Federation.

“It held from October 23 to 24, as well as the rapidly rising trade and investment relations between Russia and Africa,” the statement further indicated.

Other recipients of the award were Vice-President, Nicaragua, Rosario Zambrana of Nicaragua; a U.S citizen, William Brumfield, and a professor of Slavic studies at Tulane University; Emeritus Rein Müllerson, an Estonian citizen and international law researcher at Tallinn University; Nikos Daskalandonakis, Russian Honorary Consul in Crete; and Armi Lopez Garcia, Russian Honorary Consul in the Philippines.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]