Volkswagen, Siemens unveil joint e-mobility project for Africa
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Volkswagen and Siemens have signed a joint development agreement to conduct electric mobility feasibility project for sub-Saharan Africa.

In a first for the African continent, the Volkswagen brand launched a pilot project in partnership with Siemens to test the feasibility of electric mobility in an African country, Rwanda.

The pilot project, which will form part of Volkswagen’s operations in Rwanda, was officially announced by The Chief Executive Officer of Volkswagen Group South Africa and responsible for the sub-Saharan Africa Region, Thomas Schäfer.

The firms in a joint statement said during the pilot phase, four e-Golfs and one charging station will be introduced in the capital of Rwanda, Kigali.

The statement added that Volkswagen had signed a joint development agreement with Siemens to provide the charging infrastructure for the electric cars.

“With the launch of the pilot project, Rwanda becomes the first African country to introduce a Volkswagen electric car,” it added.

Schäfer was quoted to have said the success of the innovative and pioneering mobility solutions business had shown that Rwanda had the potential to leapfrog the internal combustion engines into electric cars.

“Rwanda has a young and progressive population that appreciates individual and modern mobility. Together with our development partner Siemens and with the support from the government of Rwanda, Volkswagen wants to make the e-Golf pilot project in Rwanda a blueprint for electric mobility in Africa,” he said.

The Chief Executive Officer of Siemens Southern and Eastern Africa, Sabine Dall’Omo, said the partnership with Volkswagen on the project solidified Siemens commitment not only to Rwanda but to the East African region.

“By contributing towards shaping the African market for intelligent, adaptive infrastructure, while addressing skills challenges in this sector, Siemens is helping to build a more sustainable future for the people of Rwanda,” he added.

The pilot e-Golfs would be added into the Volkswagen Mobility Solutions Rwanda fleet to provide customised mobility service, the firms explained, adding that the plan was to increase the number of the electric cars to 50 units and 15 charging stations, depending on the outcomes of the pilot project.

According to the statement, the drivers and technicians who will be working with the electric cars have received specialised training in preparation for launch of the pilot project.

The electric mobility project was developed within the Moving Rwanda initiative, a cooperation between Volkswagen, Siemens, SAP and Inros Lackner and the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit GmbH also known as GIZ , the firm said.

Both firm, said Africa was the last frontier for the automotive industry, and that Volkswagen’s long-term goal was to play a leading and pioneering role in the development of the automotive industry in the continent.

Volkswagen said it had significantly expanded its engagement in Africa with the establishment of assembly facilities and marketing activities in Kenya, Rwanda and Nigeria while Ghana and Ethiopia had been planned as the next locations.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]