Toyota upgrades Land Cruiser in 2020 Heritage edition
For its 2020 Land Cruiser, Japanese automaker, Toyota Motor Corporation, has resigned the current model, adding some exciting features and removing a few things from the flagship sport utility vehicle.

It names the new Land Cruiser model the Heritage Edition and expects that it will receive overwhelming acceptance from the SUV lovers globally.

According to reviews by auto enthusiasts, for starters, the Land Cruiser’s third row seats have been removed to increase cargo space, moving from 16.1 cubic feet to 53.5 and creating enough space for a travel fridge or large cooler.

MotorTrend reports that the 2020 Land Cruiser Heritage Edition follows the Porsche model of offering less for more, adding that it drops the running boards, centre console, as well as third-row jump seats of the regular Land Cruiser.

It adds that the 18-inch forged BBS wheels have been painted an attractive bronze and a Yakima roof basket while the black leather seats feature bronze accent stitching.

“Toyota swapped the gray headliner for a black one that manages to make the spacious interior feel rather cramped. Only D-pillar badges, modelled after those used on the iconic FJ40, give a nod to the model’s prodigious global history,” it says.

It explains that the Land Cruiser is an enigma, a four-by-four that feels like nothing else in the Toyota line-up.

MotorTrend says the Land Cruiser is an heirloom, adding, that “its 5.7-litre V-8 emits a distant growl, sending 381 horsepower to all four wheels through an eight-speed automatic transmission and shuttling the nearly 6,000-pound – yes, really – behemoth toward 8,500 feet above sea level posthaste.

“Underneath, the tame Dunlop Grandtrek AT23 rubber’s tall sidewalls deliver a plush, exceptionally comfortable ride. The independent front and coil-sprung solid rear axle suspension is classic SUV, albeit with a trick.”

It explains that the Kinetic Dynamic Suspension System is not a new technology as Toyota has been using it for over a decade but it is remarkable for its simplicity compared to the massively complex air suspensions found under competitive Land Rovers and Mercedes-Benz products.

“Put simply, the system uses hydraulic actuators to automatically adjust the sway bars to keep the body remarkably flat during hard cornering or to allow impressive articulation on rocky trails,” MotorTrend says.

According to Cnet, with an eight-speed automatic transmission, the engine of the Heritage edition gets the job done with minimal fuss.

“Lots of low-end torque combined with full-time four-wheel drive and a locking center differential means the Land Cruiser can make quick work of steep, rocky hills. The 285/60-series Dunlop AT23 Grandtrek tires help with off-road traction, as well,” it adds.

“In addition to its strong, simple powerplant, the Land Cruiser has a two-speed transfer case with a terrain management system to better navigate rocks, dirt, mud and sand. The Toyota’s ladder frame makes it super strong and tough as nails, and skid plates protect all the important bits, like the front suspension, radiator, gas tank and transfer case,” Cnet says.

MotorTrend says no discussion on the Land Cruiser will be complete without its added comfort.

“The Land Cruiser reveals its rugged roots in a few places. Its interior is light on dressy materials expected on trucks half its price,” it says.

It adds that the leather is a step above Toyota norm, and the front seats are both heated and cooled.