Power crisis: Consumers demand sanctions against Discos
As the privatisation of the power sector turns six years old, electricity consumers have described the performance of the private investors as unsatisfactory, ‘FEMI ASU writes

As the nation’s power sector remains in crisis six years after it was privatised, electricity consumers have called on the government to sanction core investors that have failed to deliver in line with the performance agreements entered into with the Bureau of Public Enterprises.

Friday, November 1, 2019 marked exactly six years after the distribution and generation companies carved out of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria were handed over to private investors.

On that day, the total amount of electricity generated by power stations in the country stood at 3,712.4 megawatts as of 6am. It fell to 3,109.3MW as of 6pm on November 2, according to data obtained from Nigerian Electricity System Operator.

The system operator put the nation’s installed generation capacity at 12,910.40MW; available capacity at 7,652.60MW; transmission wheeling capacity at 8,100MW; and the peak generation ever attained at 5,375MW.

Out of 8,840,801 registered electricity customers, only 3,793,895 (42.9 per cent) have meters as of the end of the first quarter of 2019, according to the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission.

NERC noted that estimated billing, which 57 per cent of the customers are subjected to, had contributed to customer apathy towards payment for electricity.

The President, Electricity Consumers Association of Nigeria, Mr Chijioke James, said the performance of the Discos was below average.

He said, “Six years after unbundling the power sector, all we hear is that generation has increased but the distribution network has not been sufficient to meet the expectations of the consumers. The government, the private sector and all other stakeholders need to wake up.”

He stressed the need for all parties to work in line with the performance agreements.

James said, “If there are clauses that have been breached, sanctions should be applied. If there are circumstances beyond the control of any party, then there should be roundtable talks to resolve them amicably.

“There is a law governing the relationship between the government and the private investors. If the Discos have not performed their own role, they should be shown the way out. If government has reneged on its own part, then it has the responsibility to do what it needs to do in line with whatever is the terms of engagement.”

The President, Nigerian Electricity Consumers Advocacy Network, Mr Tomi Akingbogun, who also lamented the state of the sector, said something drastic had to be done to reposition it.

He said, “We are not happy with the lack of progress in the power sector. The promise we had was that after privatisation, there would be changes in terms of metering and billing within two years. But the six years has been experimental. NERC is even not powerful any more.”

Akingbogun, however, said, “We at NECAN do not believe cancellation of the privatisation is the solution. The government can punish one or two of the investors by cancelling their licences. We believe privatisation will still solve the power problem.”

“NERC needs to be more active. I don’t think they have the required leadership to sanitise the market.”

But NERC, in a notice published on its website last month, gave eight of the Discos 60 days to explain why their licences should not be cancelled for what it described as “manifest and flagrant breaches”.

It said Abuja, Benin, Enugu, Ikeja, Kaduna, Kano, Port Harcourt and Yola Discos breached some provisions of the Electric Power Sector Reform Act, terms and conditions of their respective distribution licences and the 2016 – 2018 Minor Review of Multi Year Tariff Order and Minimum Remittance Order for the Year 2019.

The BPE had said last year that the five-year performance agreement for all the Discos, with the exception of Kaduna Disco, became effective on January 1, 2015 and the fifth year anniversary for final performance review would therefore be December 31, 2019.

“The financial viability of the Nigerian electricity supply industry is still the most significant challenge threatening the sustainability of the industry,” NERC said in its latest quarterly report.

The aggregate technical, commercial and collection losses for all the Discos rose to 48.72 per cent in Q1 2019 from 46.96 per cent in the preceding quarter, compared to expected industry average of 26 per cent.

The regulator said, “The high ATC&C losses reflect low investments in distribution networks aggravated by the low level of metering of end-use customers, thus creating lingering liquidity challenge to the industry.

“The implication of the level of the ATC&C losses in the first quarter of 2019 is that, on average, as much as N4.87 in every N10 worth of energy received by a Disco was unrecovered due to a combination of energy theft, inefficient distribution networks, weak management effort in revenue collection, and low metering and willingness to pay by customers.”

In November 2014, the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Ministry of Power and NERC signed a memorandum of understanding on a stabilisation fund, with N213bn earmarked for disbursement through deposit money banks to power firms.

The Federal Government, in March 2017, launched the Power Sector Recovery Programme with the major highlight being a CBN-funded payment assurance guarantee for two years to the tune of N701bn. The money expected to cover the shortfall of NBET was targeted at Gencos and gas suppliers for power generated and future power generation.

Last month, the Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors, the umbrella body for the Discos, urged the National Assembly to intervene in the current liquidity crisis in the sector.

Its Executive Director, Research and Advocacy, Mr Sunday Oduntan, said the 12 Discos would require N725m monthly each to meet the threshold of 35 per cent remittance level set by NERC in the meantime.

ANED said the sector was losing money because of the lack of cost-reflective tariff and the non-payment of bills by the Ministries, Departments and Agencies.

It said extensive regulatory changes, undelivered privatisation commitments and lack adequate government guarantee on investments had discouraged prospective investors.

“The power sector reform has not delivered the desired outcomes. The citizens’ expectations were not met. The entire experience has given privatisation a bad name,” the Director-General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr Muda Yusuf, said.

He noted that there were issues of due diligence, technical capacity, financial capacity, political interference, commercial losses, technical losses, tariff and the economics of the private sector investment.

“Power sector is critical to the development of the country. I believe the government still needs to provide some resource support and generous fiscal incentives for investors in the sector because of the economic development and social impact of an improved power sector performance.”

Nigeria hasn’t invested enough in electricity – TCN

Nigeria has not invested enough in the power sector like countries that are successful in the delivery of electricity to their citizens, the Managing Director, Transmission Company of Nigeria, Usman Mohammed, has said.

He said although Nigeria had spent so much in the industry, there was still room for huge investments in the industry.

Usman, who spoke at the Nigeria Electricity Awareness Walk organised by the company and Mainstream Energy Solutions Limited in Abuja, said, “We also have to understand that the power sector requires a lot of investment. So despite the huge investments that we’ve put in the sector, it still needs huge investments. If you look at countries that have made it, they invested more than what we have invested here.”

Additional report by Okechukwu Nnodim

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]