Low patronage, funding threaten Lagos compost factory
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

For a World Bank-backed compost making firm, Earthcare, based in Lagos, funding and low patronage of its products have remained major setbacks.

The PUNCH gathered that these issues were already threatening the existence of the factory, described as one of a kind in the country.

According to findings, the factory with the capacity to process 200,000 metric tonnes of organic waste into fertlizer annually is currently only processing between 60 and 100 tonnes per day and collecting only about 90 metric tonnes of waste daily.

EarthCare Nigeria Limited was created in 2002 during the tenure of a former Governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu, as a joint-venture initiative of the United States Government between EarthCare Nigeria Limited and EarthCare Technologies under the Gold Key Initiative of the Bill Clinton administration for the benefit of Nigeria.

The project also had the support of the World Bank while the Lagos State Government provided land as well as part of the infrastructure such as road to set up the plant near the Lagos State Polytechnic in Ikorodu.

Production began in 2006, four years after the initial plans, and the factory began converting 1,000 metric tonnes of waste daily to compost for farmers, with the waste sourced mainly from Mile 12 and Ketu markets.

The factory works by using a mixture of municipal solid waste as raw material and applying a remedial technology from the United States which conforms to Clean Development Mechanism.

It was learnt that the initial plan for the factory was to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions by diverting solid waste, which would normally goes to landfills in Lagos, to a state-of-the-art composting facility and reduce the amount of waste in landfills by 10 to 20 per cent while creating an avenue for farmers to get better yield through organic fertilizers.

A stakeholder, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the entire process had helped the state to reduce the methane emissions that would otherwise be released into the atmosphere and had been a source of high-quality compost to farmers for use in agriculture and horticulture.

The project, he said, earned carbon credits and became the first compost project in Nigeria to be registered as a Clean Development Mechanism project under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.

The World Bank also estimated when the factory began operations that the project would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 253,800 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide per year over 10 years and that some of the carbon credits earned would be sold to the World Bank’s Umbrella Carbon Facility Tranche II.

However, like many projects across the country, the compost plant has been struggling to stay afloat having suffered a setback during the waste management policy summersault of the Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s administration.

Although it bounced back, the factory currently operates far below capacity as offtake of products has become a major problem among other challenges.

“Government is not taking advantage of the project because after the initial funding, I don’t think there has been any other. Governments have come and gone and so is the interest in the factory,” a source with the knowledge of the project said.

“The project needs not just funding but support in terms of awareness as it is currently surviving only on small sales but the warehouse is overflowing with products without buyers. The project offers different ways to generate money from waste but there is very low interest from the government,” the source added.

The Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Lagos State, Mr Tunji Bello, told our correspondent that the state government was aware that the firm had some production challenges for the past two to three years.

“But they are about restoring full operations following some discussions with us,” he said.

According to him, the state didn’t provide money but infrastructure from the beginning when it reached an agreement with the firm to convert waste into compost.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]