I don’t rush into things – Kosoko
Oyeyemi Kosoko, 25, is a project manager at Grandeur Haven company. He shares his passion for real estate with TOLUWALOPE KAREEM

What is your educational background?

I graduated from the University of Lagos with a Bachelor’s degree in Political Science. I also have a Master’s degree in Business Management from the University of Hull, England.

What are your duties as a project manager?

I distribute tasks to be done and ensure that all tasks assigned are executed. I also ensure that my team members and I do what is expected of us.

What have been the major highlights of your job?

That would be working towards the completion of fully detached buildings and making sure they were sold in record time.

What are some of the challenges you face and how do you deal with them?

One of the challenges is my age. I work with people who are way older than I am and sometimes, they try to make an issue out of it but I don’t let that happen. I have been able to overcome this by putting my management skills to good use. Whenever there’s a problem, I try to talk to them to resolve it, so we can move forward and get quality results.

Where did you work before getting to your present company?

During my National Youth Service Corps programme, I taught at a school in Benin City, Edo State. Also, while studying for my Masters, I worked at Cranswick Country Foods, where I was the team leader.

What are your long-term goals?

In 10 years’ time, I want to start my own real estate firm which would then be one of the largest real estate companies in Nigeria.

How do you plan to achieve this?

I and some friends have set up a plan to invest in building properties. We come together to ensure that this plan pulls through and we are saving towards achieving this. In a few years’ time, we are hoping to see results because we have got it all mapped out.

What are your short-term goals?

My short-term goal would be working on developing myself. I also intend to go for my PhD soon and do something on real estate. I would be developing myself by gaining more knowledge and understanding how estate management works.

You studied Political Science but you are into real estate business. Is this out of passion or circumstance?

While studying Business Management, I did a case study on fast food company, McDonalds. While reading on the case study, I realised that though they are known for sales of food, most of their income comes from real estate. They are one of the largest real estate companies in the world and the profit that comes from real estate is massive.

Also, I am a Lagos State indigene, and it is estimated that we have about 21 million people in the state. People would always need houses, and that is what influenced my passion for real estate.

As a political science graduate, do you have plans of going into politics?

Yes, I do. When I was a student of the University of Lagos, I was the welfare director of my faculty. I hope someday after making something of my own, I would be able to go into politics. My interest in politics is because one of my favorite philosophers once said, “If good people don’t join politics, it will be at hands of bad people”. I wish to delve into politics to make Lagos State a better place for everyone.

What does success mean to you?

Success, to me, is when I and the people around me can be identified as having done well for ourselves.

What are some of the qualities that have helped you to become successful?

I’ll claim to be fully successful when I have achieved my goals. However, the qualities that have helped me get to where I am today can be linked to privilege. I have a brother who is into real estate and is doing well for himself. I look up to him as a mentor. He is basically the reason for everything I have become.

Also, I am a focused person and goal getter. I don’t rush into things. I make proper deliberations before delving into anything.

How do you like to relax when you are not working?

I love to hang out with my friends. We could go out drinking and discussing ideas. I also love watching movies.

Does your job affect your social life?

No, it doesn’t and that is one of the beauties of working in a real estate firm. One can work on other things.

Do you think real estate is a viable option for growth in Nigeria?

Yes, I think so. My opinion about Nigeria is that we need to develop to our advantage. We have rich histories and if we can build structures around them which people can relate with, that would be nice. For instance, the Burj Khalifa building in Dubai is one of the most visited places in the world. If Nigeria can invest in buildings, it would go a long way in the creation of wealth.

How do you like to dress?

I love to dress simply in shirts and trousers. And on Fridays, I put on native wear.

What are your hobbies?

I love football and reading poetry. I also like to sing though I am a terrible singer.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]