Ogun set to begin new waste management initiative
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Ogun State Government says it plans to establish a new waste management process across the state, known as ‘Clean-up exercise’.

The state government said it would be part of efforts towards addressing the current mode of waste management and improve public hygiene in the state.

The Secretary to the State Government, Mr Olatokunbo Talabi, was said to have made this known at a stakeholders’ meeting with officials of the Ministry of Environment and members of the Association of Waste Managers of Nigeria in Abeokuta.

Talabi described the existing waste collection and management process in the state as unacceptable and capable of endangering peoples’ lives.

He said efforts were already being made to put in place a viable reform process that would further address the anomaly before it became entrenched in the state.

He said, “When we came in as a government, Governor Dapo Abiodun observed that the mode of waste collection as well as its management was totally not acceptable to the government and its people.

“We took time to study and observe the existing process of waste management in the state and came to the realisation that the process needed to be overhauled. Clearly, we need to reform this part of our lives; we should also be thinking of turning waste into wealth.”

He said the government had appointed a waste management expert with a proven track record to manage, supervise and direct the collection and management of waste generated in the state, adding that there was an urgent need to explore the sustainability of the process.

The Special Adviser to the Governor on Environment, Mr Ola Oresanya, was also quoted to have said that the Dapo Abiodun led-administration was determined to ensure a clean and healthy state, where waste would be properly managed, thereby averting any form of epidemic.

He said a clean-up initiative would soon be inaugurated in the state to sensitise the people to the importance of maintaining a healthy environment.

The Chairman, AWAN, Mr Jolaoluwa Emmanuel, said the association was willing to support the state government in achieving a cleaner and healthier environment.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]