Builders seek review of building construction process
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

In view of recurring cases of building collapse in the country, builders have called for a review of the entire housing construction process.

The Nigerian Institute of Building, Lagos State Chapter, said at this critical period in the construction industry, it had become necessary to review the full extent of building delivery from conceptualisation to design and functionality.

At its builders’ conference and annual general meeting in Lagos, the builders stressed the need to review building process in line with targeted industry development and growth.

The Special Adviser to the Governor of Lagos State on Works and Infrastructure, 2, said construction had for a long time been challenged by quackery, use of substandard materials and circumvention of procurement methods.

She stated that this had resulted in delays in project completion as well as standard.

According to Adeyoye, Lagos has experienced unfair share of building collapse along with avoidable losses of lives and properties.

“It is time for professionals in the built industry to work assiduously together as stakeholders in the Lagos project to bid the ugly trend a final goodbye,” she said.

Adeyoye noted that the passage of the Public Procurement Act which emphasised competence, appropriate pricing, structured funding, usage of standard and quality materials amongst others was designed to entrench quality, efficient and safety in line with global best practices.

She said, “It is a catalyst for success, a recipe for growth and the bedrock of sanitising every area of public procurement especially as it affects the construction sector.

“The appropriate procurement method is a comprehensive process that ensures that quality goods and services are delivered at the best possible condition including cost, time, machine and man. It also involves arranging and coordinating people to achieve prescribed construction goals and objectives.”

She said the use of appropriate procurement methods in the building production would help all stakeholders such as the government, corporate and private developers as well as individuals to promote sustainable development.

“This will in turn help to minimise cost through effective competition and protection of public funds,” Adeyoye added.

She stated that the government would address the shortcomings in the industry, adding that the state executive council was considering for approval the introduction of standard operating procedure for all ministries, department and agencies.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]