Ford enlivens Abuja fair with Co-Pilot Edge
Rasheed Bisiriyu

Coscharis Motors has introduced to the Nigerian market Ford Edge equipped with Co-Pilot360™, a safety feature that gives one full confidence to drive the car.

The new Ford model was launched last week at the ongoing 20th Abuja International Motor Fair

Ford Co-Pilot360™ is described as a suite of five standard features, comprising a rear-view camera with washer; blind spot information system with cross-traffic alert; pre-collision assist with automatic emergency braking; lane-keeping system; and auto high-beam headlamps start, helping the moment you begin backing out of your driveway.

The General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications at the Coscharis Group, Abiona Babarinde, said at the launch of the vehicle the decision to bring the specially built Edge to this market was to ensure that Ford in Nigeria had equal share of the best from the American automobile manufacturing giant.

He described the new 2019 Ford Edge as “an upscale sport utility vehicle defined by modern sophistication.”

According to him, Ford has continued to thrill the world with superior new vehicles which are products of intense researches into the desires of automobile consumers around the globe. “We at Coscharis will always see to it that our market never misses the opportunity to get its fair share of such highly innovative products,” he said.

Babarinde also said, “With this launch today, Coscharis has once again enlarged the coast for SUVs and increased the options for our customers to choose from a wide range of Ford SUVs, such as Expedition, Explorer, Escape, EcoSport and now, the new Edge.”

Apart from the Co-Pilot360™, a statement by Felix Mahan of Coscharis Motors indicated that other features of the new Ford Edge made the vehicle to stand out in its class.

For instance, it has the stop-start-go power. It thus enjoys quick-shifting eight-speed automatic transmission with standard Auto-Start/Stop technology.

This reduces the vehicle’s fuel consumption during the stop-and-go city driving.

“These drive enhancement features in both of the EcoBoost engines are available in the new 2019 Edge. Ford’s SelectShift® capability enhances your driving experience on all-wheel drive new Edge derivatives with racing-inspired paddle shifters,” the auto firm said in the statement.

The Edge’s adaptive cruise control with stop-and-go and lane centering is said to be capable of bringing the vehicle to a complete stop when traffic slows, and can accelerate back to its preset speed within three seconds.

Lane centering reads the lane markings to help keep the new Edge centred on its lane.

Looking at the inside of the vehicle, the new Edge is said to combine style and great functions to offer maximum comfort and perfection

“From the Intelligent Access key fob that gets you in, to the push-button start that gets you going, the new Edge interior has it all.”

The new Edge can convert to a cargo hauler with ease when its rear 60:40 split seat is folded flat.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]