28,000 artisans join contributory pensions
Nike Popoola

About 28,000 informal sector workers have joined the micro-pension plans under the Contributory Pension Scheme.

The Head, Corporate Communications, National Pension Commission, Peter Aghahowa, disclosed this, during a pension seminar organised by the Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria in Lagos on Friday.

He said the number was recorded as of the end of October this year.

“The figure of informal sector registered by the Pension Fund Administrators has risen to over 28,000,” he said.

The Pension Reform Act, which came into effect in 2004, provides a contributory arrangement in which both the employer and employee contribute into the workers’ RSAs.

However, the CPS was only opened to the formal sector since inception, until the Federal Government officially extended it to the informal sector in March 2019.

Aghahowa said as of the end of June this year, 21,430 informal sector workers had joined the CPS, and that 19 PFAs registered 25,687 members as of the end of September.

He said some of the challenges of increasing participation in the micro-pension plan were low awareness of the benefits of the pension scheme, and lack of National Identification Number by many artisans.

According to him, NIN has been made as a mandatory requirement for anyone to join the CPS or access its benefits.

To make it easier, he said that PenCom was in talks with the National Identity Management Commission on how to create easy registration for workers and the retirees.

He said the operators would be allowed to collect enough data that could help those in the informal sector to have their NIN when registering them for pensions, which would help them to join the CPS.

To motivate the micro-pension contributors, he said they would be able to access 40 per cent of their pension savings, while the remaining 60 per cent would be kept for their pension benefits.

The President, PenOp, Mrs Ronke Adedeji, said the micro-pension plan just started this year and the operators were committed to seeing it grow.

She said that it was necessary to give it more time to thrive, as the operators were committed to ensuring that more Nigerians had access to pension accounts.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]