The English love to mind their business –– MC Lively
Comedian, Michael Amanesi, popularly known as MC Lively, speaks with TOLUWALOPE KAREEM on his time in the United Kingdom

In what country did you have your most memorable travel experience?

I have only travelled to one country outside Nigeria and that is the United Kingdom.

What did you love most about the UK?

It was a beautiful experience and I enjoyed my stay there. Everything was on point but there was no Nigerian food in abundance.

How long were you there for and where did you stay?

I was there for a month and I visited several places but I spent the most time in London.

What are some of the things that fascinated you when you arrived the country?

I cannot forget the weather because I liked it. The country is very well organised and that got my attention. I was fascinated by the infrastructure in the country . To be honest, I was so amazed by a lot of things that I can’t even state them all.

What interesting places did you visit while there?

I visited the Isle of Dogs (in London) and that was the most memorable place I went. It is such a beautiful place.

What other countries would you like to visit?

I would like to visit as many countries as I can in the future.

Is there any basis of comparison between the English and Nigerians?

Over there, every one seemed to mind their business, unlike the opposite that usually obtains in Nigeria. No one concerned themselves with what they were not asked to get involved in. Invariably, minding one’s business causes less trouble.

What are the greatest benefits you have derived from travelling?

Travelling has brought me a lot of exposure. I have been able to see things I had never seen before and may not have been opportune to experience otherwise. I also got to understand things in a diverse way. The trip was quite revealing and I am glad for that experience.

Did you experience any cultural shock?

There’s none that I can think of right now. On second thought, I don’t think there was really any shock for me.

What did you see in the United Kingdom that you would like replicated in Nigeria?

There are a lot of things (I saw there) that could be replicated in Nigeria. Nigerians should adopt a better attitude to work. Over there, people work a lot and do not joke with their means of livelihood. Practically everyone I encountered had one job or the other.

What do you think the UK can copy from Nigeria?

They should try to adopt our sense of community. Nigerians believe in communal relationships and that is a beautiful thing. It would be good if other countries can replicate that.

What reminded you of home while you were there?

There were a lot of Nigerians over there. Seeing them made me remember home.

Did you make friends during the trip?

Certainly, I made a lot of friends and I had fun with them.

What are some of the downsides of travelling as a Nigerian?

We are never really respected as Nigerians and that is because of the negative perception people have of us due to the criminal activities of some people. This needs to be changed.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]