IBEDC moves to curb technical, commercial losses
’Femi Asu

Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company says it has commenced a major revenue protection campaign with a crack team of over 60 executives and officers to curb aggregate, technical and commercial losses.

The Chief Operating Officer, IBEDC, Mr John Ayodele, while inaugurating the team in Ibadan, said revenue protection was needed to block leakages that could make the company go under.

He said leakages had made many distribution companies unable to pay their bills to the Market Operators and the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc.

He said lack of efficient revenue protection measures had been a major challenge “as it deals with illegal consumption of power, prepaid meter bypass, under billing, wrong tariff classification of customers and energy theft.”

According to a statement, the IBEDC discovered that energy theft and meter tampering account for about 60 per cent of revenue losses across its franchise.

The company said it had dealt with about 1,333 cases of meter bypass from January to October 2019.

It said, “The establishment of the IBEDC PPM team is another initiative taken by the company to curb revenue leakages.

“Other measures include the use of advance metering infrastructure -this allows for two-way communication between the meter and the utility provider; whistleblowing initiative to get and investigate reports and tip-offs on corruption for prosecution.”

According to the statement, Ayodele told a delegation from the National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency that the losses and financial challenges in the sector were worsened by multiple taxation and huge debt by government agencies and parastatals.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]