Nigeria, US discuss infrastructure, terrorism financing
John Ameh, Abuja

Nigeria and the US are in talks over how the latter can support the development of infrastructure in the country through development finance institutions, the Presidency has said.

It said on Thursday that President Muhammadu Buhari and the US’ Treasury Secretary, Steven Mnuchin, met in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, on Wednesday where they discussed the matter.

“They had positive discussions on investments in Nigeria under the new United States International Development Finance Corporation, which provides $60bn for investments in developing nations”, a State House statement by Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mr Garba Shehu, said.

Buhari and Mnuchin had met on the margins of the Future Investment Initiative forum, where the President told the treasury secretary that “Nigeria will leverage the US facility to address current challenges confronting her power sector as well as general upgrade of infrastructure.”

The Presidency added, “The President thanked the US government for supporting Nigeria’s anti-terrorism efforts.

“The President and Mnuchin also discussed areas of strengthening Nigeria’s ongoing collaboration with the United States on stopping terrorist financing.

“Mnuchin was accompanied by Brent Macintosh, Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs and Marshall Billingslea, Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing in the United States Treasury Department.

“The Treasury Secretary used the occasion to introduce Macintosh who was recently promoted Under Secretary for International Affairs by President Trump after the previous Under Secretary, David Malpass, was elected President of the World Bank.

“The Nigerian leader congratulated Macintosh on his elevation and requested his continued support for Nigeria, especially in accessing the $60bn infrastructure fund under the USIDFC.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]