Osinbajo seeks NCRIB’s support to tackle insurance risks
Ifeanyi Onuba

VICE President Yemi Osinbajo has called on the National Council of Registered Insurance Brokers to partner the Federal Government to mitigate the risks associated with investments in the insurance industry.

Osinbajo said this in Abuja during the investiture of Mrs Bola Onigbogi as the 20th President of the NCRIB.

The VP described the insurance industry as vital for the development of the economy.

He added while the sector was faced with challenges, the lack of adherence to insurance practice was making it difficult for government to achieve its objectives for the sector.

Osinbajo, however, added that the government would do all it could, including working with the new leadership of the NCRIB to address the challenges facing the sector.

He described Onigbogi as a woman with qualities to take the NCRIB to enviable heights, noting that the council could not have made a better choice than electing her as its president.

He said, “Professional bodies are essential to development and progress of any body as they maintain standards and ethical value.

“Bola possesses these and she is an astute academic, entrepreneur and philanthropist who has consistently given back to the society and the council is in very good hands going by her competence.”

The outgoing President, NCRIB, Semiu Tinubu, said that the emergence of Onigbogi was based on the successor plan that the council had put in place.

He said before anyone could emerge as president of the council, that person would have gone through the ranks of the successor plan.

He said this strategy was adopted to enable everyone aspiring for leadership position of the council to buy into the 10-year master plan.

Tinubu said if the Nigeria could adopt the successor plan of the NCRIB, then the challenges faced by the country in producing leaders that would follow developmental plan would be addressed.

The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi in his remarks at the event commended the council for electing Onigbogi as the president of NCRIB.

He predicted that going by the way that women are emerging in top positions in the society, it would not take long before the country produces its first woman president.

The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, said that there was a need for operators to reinvent how it sold insurance products to the public.

He said this should provoke new initiative to operators on how to reposition the industry.

She said insurance being the pivot of economic growth should come up with innovative products that would help businesses to succeed.

She said the present administration was taking steps to take the economy out of the current challenges and would require the support of the insurance industry.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]