Nestoil Group unveils new corporate identity
Anna Okon

Nigeria’s oil-servicing company, the Nestoil Group, has said it is unveiling a new corporate identity to consolidate its fort as “The face of local content in the oil and gas industry.”

According to a statement from Nestoil, the refreshed identity was revealed to industry players, captains of industry, media icons, regulators and other stakeholders in Lagos recently.

It stated that the new corporate identity represented the agenda of Nestoil for growth, market penetration, social investment and economic growth support.

According to the statement, the new corporate identity is also a result of the company’s efforts to re-engineer its entire brand strategy, position and build a compelling brand story around its core values, vision and mission.

“In addition to a refreshed logo, the Nestoil brand has adopted a refocused pay offline –‘delivering exceptional value.’ The tag line embodies the value proposition, vision, mission and corporate ethos of the oil and gas giant,” the statement read in part.

The Group Managing Director, Nestoil Group, Dr Ernest Azudialu-Obiejesi, said the company’s new identity was informed by its quest to continue to play in the highly competitive oil and gas industry as a leader.

He said the group would become increasingly more strategic in capacity building, technical knowledge acquisition and contribution to the growth of the sector.

Azudialu-Obiejesi said Nestoil was more poised and equipped to face the challenge of increasing Nigerian’s contributions to the growth of the sector.

“The journey of Nestoil started 28 years ago, long before the Nigerian Oil and Gas Content Development Act was passed. What was unique about our identity when we started was a corporate culture that supported and enhanced innovation,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]