CMB to represent Africa on ICBA board
Demola Babalola, Ibadan

Cooperative Mortgage Bank Limited has been elected to represent Africa on the seven-member board of the International Cooperative Banking Association.

A statement signed by the Head, Communication and Public Relations for the bank, Mrs Afolabi Olufunmilayo, which was made available to our correspondent in Ibadan, said the bank was elected during the International Cooperative Alliance Conference held in Kigali, Rwanda recently.

The statement added that ICBA was an arm of ICA, which was one of the largest non-governmental organisations with the largest number, measuring up to 1.2 billion cooperative members from 109 countries.

It stated further that the aim of the association was to support cooperative movement all over the world, while also stressing the advantage accrued to Nigeria for having a member on the board.

It said, “In view of this, Cooperative Mortgage Bank has put Nigeria on the global map of cooperative societies and this came as a result of the collaboration between Federal Department of Cooperatives, Cooperative Federation of Nigeria and CMB to reposition the cooperative movement in Nigeria, which has potential membership of over 20 million.

“CMB since its inception over 25 years ago has dedicated itself to providing solutions to housing needs in Nigeria by providing quality and affordable houses with ease of payment for cooperatives. The vision is to make every cooperator a home-owner by creating durable, quality and affordable houses for all.

“Representing Africa on the board is an avenue to foster rapid development in the housing sector in Nigeria and Africa at large as housing has been a major problem in Africa. With this new development, Nigeria and Africa will soon be at a peak in terms of sustainable housing for all.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]