‘Establish industrial parks in border areas’
Samuel Awoyinfa

The government has been called upon to develop border areas by creating industrial parks in the border communities in order to discourage smuggling and other acts of economic sabotage.

The Eselu of Iselu in the Yewa North Local Government Area of Ogun State, Oba Akintunde Akinyemi, made this called.

Although Akinyemi commended the Federal Government for the closure of the borders, he bnoted that for Nigeria to compete effectively in the African Continental Free Trade Agreement, it must ensure that it created an enabling environment for private businesses to thrive.

He also added that if the states and Federal Government developed the border areas by creating industrial parks in the communities in which the organised private sectors would be active stakeholders, the objectives of the AfCTA would be achieved faster.

He said, “The border areas, especially in Ogun State, have been neglected by the Federal Government for too long. There is what is called Border Area Development. What has happened to it?

“I am appealing to the FG to develop industrial parks in Ogun State border communities. We have land for such project in the Yewa North LGA.

“Government should compel industrialists and industries to come and establish companies in these parks. Nigeria has just signed into the African Continental Free Trade Agreement; there is no better way to achieve competitive advantage over other countries in the sub-region than through this approach.”

Oba Akinyemi who said the FG meant well by shutting the land borders, however, advised that the security agencies posted to the areas in the Yewa North Local Government Area should be monitored.

The monarch also called on the FG to help his subjects who were predominantly farmers by prevailing on the security agencies in the joint military exercise to stop preventing them from taking their farm produce such as tomato and palm oil to markets in Lagos to sell.

“The farmers are being disturbed by the herdsmen who attack them in their farms when they challenge them for bringing cows to feed on their farms.

“The security men in the joint military exercise on border closure are preventing them from taking their farm produce like tomato and palm oil to markets in Lagos to sell. Most times, they seize the items. Do they want these farmers to die of hunger? I am pleading with the FG to step in and stop this harassment from the security agents.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]