Unstable power, govt policies stifling business – Experts
Samuel Awoyinfa

Speakers at the 2019 International Investment Conference, organised by the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, have identified epileptic power, insecurity, conflicting regulatory policies and infrastructural deficit, among others, as some factors inhibiting the ease of doing business in Nigeria.

The forum held in Lagos on Thursday, was attended by officials from the United States High Commission in Nigeria, Lagos State Government, manufacturers and players in the private sector of the economy.

In her presentation at the event, the Commercial Attache, the US Mission to Nigeria, Ms Christine Kelley, commended the Federal Government for its efforts in initiating the ease doing business in the country, but noted that the issues of power, security and regulatory policies should be taken seriously.

While she added that there existed trade relationship between the US and Nigeria, Kelley said the volume of trade and investment between the two countries totalled $5.21bn as of August 2019.

She said, “Nations that attract Foreign Direct Investment take seriously the issues of power, security and infrastructure.

“The market in Nigeria is big enough, just like China. Government should take logical steps to build the industries. We see prospect here in Nigeria and we want to be part of it. Government should create an enabling environment; and with time, the businesses will grow.”

On his own part, the Managing Director, Rack Center, Mr Ayotunde Coker, said that investing in technology had its challenges, as the cost of acquiring equipment to sustain tech hubs was huge.

He equally noted that the tech hubs could compete favourably with their foreign counterparts if the government could create the enabling environment for the Nigerian players in the tech hub.

An entrepreneur, Medical Director, Reddington Hospital, Lagos, Dr Olatunde Lalude, said though there were opportunities in the Nigerian health-care sector, there were equally many challenges.

He explained that he had continued to invest in human capacity development for the medical team and on modern equipment.

Lalude, however, said the government should provide potable water, good roads and access to good food for its citizenry.

The President, LCCI, Mr Babatunde Ruwase, said the international investment forum set the tone for the Lagos International Trade Fair organised every year by the LCCI.

He said though Nigeria had exited recession, “If the recovery is to be sustained, there must be added drive for domestic and Foreign Direct Investments, promotion on non-oil exports and continued efforts at improving the ease of doing business in Nigeria.

“It is, therefore, necessary and critical that the government provides an enabling environment that will encourage investors to invest in the Nigerian economy by addressing the security challenges in the country and ensuring improved regulatory framework.”

Representatives from the Nigeria Immigration Service and the Nigeria Customs Service present at the event spoke on their efforts to facilitate ease of doing business at the nation’s entry points – sea ports and land borders.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]