Export opportunity in kola nut
In the international market, kola nut sells for $1,600 per cubic metre; it is offered between $10,000 and $16,000 per container.

In the Western world, kola nut extract is used in the production of beverage drinks, energy drinks, cosmetics (such as beauty soaps and creams), chewing gums, sweets and others. India, China, Europe and USA are major buyers.

According to nairaland.com, there is high demand for it by industries that require kola nuts as their raw material. The industries are: energy drink producers, wine, Juice and soft drink producers, beverage/tea producers and beauty products makers.

You can buy kola nuts in large quantities from Osun State – Owena, Ikirun, Faforiji, Garage Olode (Ife East), Ijebu Jesa, Esa Oke, Odo-Ijesa, Iperindo, Ise Ijesa; Ondo State – Ogbese, Owo, Ore.

Others are Oje and Shasha markets in Ibadan; Sabo Market in Ile-Ife.

You can start a small-scale export of kola nuts with N50,000, N80,000 and N150,000.

After cleaning the kola nuts and making them fit for the international market, wrap them up with paper at the weight of 1kg per wrapper.

Pack seven of the wrapped kola nuts into one carton, making it 7kg per carton, which is the acceptable kilogramme per carton.

According to www.wealthresult.com, with N50,000 worth of kola nuts, you will spend at least N10,000 to get the wrappers and have them packed.

After packing, the next step is to take the cartons to a courier company for onward transfer to your international clients.

This is for a small-scale kola nut export. If you are going big with the business, then you will have to register with the shipping council to have your goods forwarded for you without hassles.

Even as a small-scale kola nut exporter, you are assured of 100 per cent profit on any goods shipped to your overseas customers.

Do not forget to look for a courier company with the most favourable price to export your goods. Always make sure that none of the cartons exceeds 7kg to avoid being rejected by the courier company.

For those that want to do it in a big way, having an online presence where you can have your goods advertised is very important.

Do not forget to take courses in export procedures. Such courses are offered by the Nigerian Export Promotion Council free of charge or sometimes at a much subsidised rate.

It is risky to undertake a large-scale export without assistance from the NEPC. Many exporters have lost a lot of money through rejected products because of their ignorance of basic export procedures.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]