MEMMCOL urges Discos to close five-million metering gap
’Femi Asu

Momas Electricity Meters Manufacturing Company Limited has said there is a need to close the skills gap in the power sector as more than one million meter installers are required for the success of the Meter Asset Providers scheme.

The Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, MEMMCOL, Mr Kola Balogun, said this on Tuesday at the graduation of the second batch of trainees from Momas Metering School, located in Mowe, Ogun State.

He stressed the need to close the five million metering gap in the country.

He said, “We discovered that there are lots of manpower deficiencies in the electricity value chain, and we realised that we have the opportunity to pass on skills that we have acquired over three decades now.

“The objective is to optimise the opportunity we have in the metering sub-sector of the power sector by making sure we train adequately and competently young graduates, undergraduates and secondary school leavers who will be useful for the mass roll-out of meters by electricity distribution companies.”

According to Balogun, the school trained about 50 students during the maiden edition of the training programme.

He said the training programme had been endorsed by the Nigerian Society of Engineers and the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria.

He said, “It is a body of engineers that came up with the entire scope of the curriculum that we are using. We did it in such a way that even if you are not a graduate of engineering, you can fit into a minimum entry level to do meter installation.

“We need more than one million installers to fill up the gap because the deficit in the metering gap is about five million, and each installer will install a minimum of five meters. Metering is a continuous exercise.

Balogun added, “We did not train them just to install meters; they will be able to do network cleansing to ensure that we don’t have technical losses on our distribution network any longer.

“We can use the opportunity of the MAP scheme to enable young ones to key into the installation of meters. The government can support what we are doing by subsidising the cost of the training.

The President, COREN, Mr Ali Rabiu, who commended the company for the training initiative, said the council would support it in order to bridge the skills gap in the metering space.

“This is my first time in Momas, and I have gone round the facilities, and I am impressed with what I have seen. They are doing a lot of things apart from metering. The quality here is comparable anywhere in the world,” he added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]