3,050MW Mambilla project moribund in 20 years – Ishaku 
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

The 3,050 megawatts Mambilla hydropower project in Taraba State has been moribund in the last 20 years, the Taraba State Governor, Darius Ishaku, has said.

Ishaku, who disclosed this at the headquarters of the Federal Ministry of Power recently in Abuja, however, stated that his state was ready to support the Federal Government to ensure that the ongoing work on the project was successful.

He said, “I am here to discuss how to ensure that the Mambilla project receives the needed attention. President Muhammadu Buhari has listened to our plea on this project which has been moribund in the last 20 years by putting one of us to oversee the project.

“We must therefore do everything to support and encourage the Minister of Power, Sale Mamman, to achieve his goals. The work is now between me and him (Mamman), it is time for us to close ranks and work for the success of the gigantic project which nature has placed in Taraba State.”

On his part, Mamman said the actualisation of the 3,050MW Mambilla hydropower project in Taraba would have direct impact on the people and on the growth of the state.

He called for the support of the Taraba State Government in order to actualise the project, adding that the Federal Government was ready to corporate with the state government in ensuring speedy completion of the project.Mamman said, “The project will change not only the power sector nationwide, but will have direct impact on the lives of people in the state by creating more jobs. It will improve the availability of electricity across the state once is completed.

“With the support of the governor, we can speed up the process of actualising the Mambila hydropower project, which has the capacity to change the fortune of Taraba State and our people are counting on us.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]