Gas development can transform sectors, says NGA
’Femi Asu

The Nigerian Gas Association has said the development of the nation’s natural gas resources can transform various sectors.

The NGA stated this ahead of its 20th anniversary slated to hold in Lagos this week.

It said in a statement that industry stakeholders would converge for an exclusive evening of grand gala, awards, fine dining, enthralling performances and high-level networking.

The President, NGA, Mrs. Audrey Joe-Ezigbo, said, “Natural gas is that one singular resource Nigeria can leverage to create transformative change across various sectors and spheres of industry.

“As the NGA, we have worked resolutely over the past 20 years to foster a legal, regulatory and policy landscape for gas that is attractive to participants and investors, with the attendant multiplier benefits to the nation at large.”

The association’s Publicity Secretary, Mr Violin Antaih, said with over two decades of consistent and progressive advocacy drive, the NGA had earned the pride of place as the flagship voice in the gas industry.

Founded in 1999, the NGA has evolved to a more diverse yet formidable body of over 124 corporate members and 2,125 individual members working with a vision to improve the nation’s economy through the maximisation of its aboundant natural gas reserves, according to a statement.

The statement said, “Since inception, the Nigerian Gas Association has carried on its commitment to effectively champion the competitiveness and effective utilisation of natural gas by promoting sound policy development, capacity development and best practices towards optimising the economics of the entire gas chain while emphasising environmental protection and safety.

“Having successfully initiated several industry-changing gas policies, viable gas projects and transnational deals through its distinguished members, the association is poised to break new grounds in uplifting the gas industry and positioning natural gas as the energy fuel of choice for the nation’s economic and industrial revolution.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]