FG inaugurates 100kw solar mini-grid in Akwa Ibom
The Federal Government, through the Rural Electrification Agency, will on Thursday (today) inaugurate a 100KW solar hybrid mini-grid power plant in Akpabom Community in Onna Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State.

The project, which is the third to be inaugurated under the Rural Electrification Fund, will provide clean, safe, affordable and reliable electricity for the community members, according to a statement.

The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, REA, Mrs Damilola Ogunbiyi, reiterated the Federal Government’s commitment to meeting its developmental goals by providing electricity access for all.

She said, “As an agency, we are responsible for powering unserved and underserved communities; therefore, it is fulfilling every time homes, businesses, schools and medical centres are connected to sustainable solar power.

“Almost immediately, we are able to witness rural communities being transformed with clean energy through the jobs that are created during construction, to their micro and small businesses scaling to larger capacity thanks to reliable electricity.”

The Chief Executive Officer, GVE Projects Limited, Ifeanyi Orajaka, said the installed mini-grid, comprising a total of 306 solar panels and a distribution network cable of 5.5KM, would adequately energise the community.

He said 58 jobs were created as a result of local labour.

“It is a thing of pride that GVE, an indigenous Nigerian firm, can be a part of developing Nigeria’s rural areas. Thanks to this project, Nigerian solar developers, like myself, can access these investment opportunities and participate in growing Nigeria’s evolving off-grid sector,” he added.

The REA is the implementing agency of the Federal Government tasked with the electrification of unserved and underserved communities.

According to the statement, it provides equitable access to electricity across Nigeria to maximise the economic, social and environmental benefits of rural electrification grants, to promote off-grid electrification, and to stimulate innovative approaches to rural electrification.

“The first call of the Rural Electrification Fund will energise 12 communities with solar mini grids and deploy 19,000 Solar Home Systems,” it added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]