EgyptAir rewards Nigerian student
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

For winning the 2019 National Travel Essay Competition, EqyptAir has rewarded a Nigerian student, Deborah Olatunji, with a flight ticket to Dubai.

The airline said this was in line with its policy to support youth empowerment, education and excellence among Nigerian youngsters.

Olatunji, a student of Holy Saviours College, Isolo emerged winner of the 10th edition of the National Travel Essay Competition.

The airline also presented a second free ticket to Olatunji to enable her travel to Dubai with any family member of her choice.

The District Manager of the airline in Nigeria, Mr Muharram Abdelrahman, presented the two tickets to the student and her aunt, Dr Ayodeji Adewakun, during a courtesy visit to his office.

Abdelrahman said, “EgyptAir is an airline that believes strongly in securing the future of the younger generation because we believe they are the leaders of tomorrow.

“With this in mind, we have supported the National Travel Essay Competition since it started 10 years ago in 2009 and we are committed to continue to strengthen our relationship and support for Travel & Business News, the organisers of the competition as we join hands with them to raise future aviation professionals.”

The airline also stated that it recently supported the Rotary Club of Lagos, District 9110, with one business-class and two economy-class tickets to support the club in its drive to better understand and create greater awareness about the treatment of children with Alzheimer disease.

It added that it collaborated with the Landmark Group to support the Music Dance Hall Festival held recently in Lagos and donated the proceeds to various humanitarian initiatives aimed at easing the burden of the underprivileged in society.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]