FG automates Form NXP for exporters
Nike Popoola

The Federal Government has replaced the hard copy Form NXP for commercial exports (oil & gas and non-oil) with the e-Form NXP which will take effect from October 31.

The CBN disclosed this in a circular entitled,’Automation of Form NXP on the trade monitoring system,’ addressed to all authorised dealers, Nigeria Customs Service, Pre-shipment inspection agents, shipping lines & airlines and the general public.

Consequently, it added, all authorised dealers were required to ensure that the processing of Form NXP should be done electronically on the Trade Monitoring System on the website.

Banks’ export customers were required to obtain a valid Tax Identification Number from the Federal Inland Revenue Service or Joint Tax Board.

It noted that the TIN was a prerequisite for customers to access the trade system for e-Form NXP application.

The CBN stated that the e-Form NXP was web based and allowed the exporters to initiate the form from their offices or homes, and submit same to the authorised dealer bank.

Part of the circular read, “A charge of N5,000 as fee per declaration for e-Form NXP is applicable with effect from October 31, 2019 and henceforth.

“There will be a direct debit of the processing bank’s current account for each declaration which should be recovered from the customer by the bank. However, the charge on the customer for the e-Form NXP should be separated from other bank charges.”

All hard copy Forms NXP established on or before October 30, 2019 (prior to the commencement of the e-Form NXP) would be utilised within 90 days of establishment of the Form, it stated.

The CBN said all established hard copy Forms NXP for which shipment had not taken place within the transition period of 90 days would be deemed cancelled.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]