‘VIOs should not vend 3rd party motor insurance’
Friday Olokor

Vehicle Inspection Officers should not partake in the practice of vending third party insurance policies for vehicles, the Chief Executive Officer of CBO Insurance Brokers, Dr Bola Onigbogi, has said.

She stated this in an interview with journalists in Abuja ahead of her investiture as president of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers.

The PUNCH learnt that Onigbogi, the current deputy president of the NCRIB would on Thursday be installed as second woman president of the organisation in the 57 years of its existence.

She said, “At the NCRIB, we are working on that matter because it is not the VIO’s business to sell third party insurance. We cannot blame them for this; they are doing that probably because they are trying to help motorists so that they could at least take the third party insurance policy as required. But in an ideal situation, it should be left to the insurance companies.”

While lamenting the state of insurance penetration in the country, which she said was as low as 0.3 per cent of the Nigerian population, Onigbogi, attributed the situation to ignorance on the part of the public.

She said, “At 0.3 per cent of insurance penetration in Nigeria, you can see that most members of the public are ignorant of what insurance can do for them. We want to embark on image rebuilding for the industry. We want the insuring public to appreciate the need to take policies at every sphere of their lives.

“You see, insurance is the only business that exists for other forms of business to thrive. We want to take it to that stage where other Nigerians will appreciate the value of insurance.”

Onigbogi however blamed the poor patronage of insurance policies by Nigerians on past administrations in the industry, saying they disappointed in paying up claims.

“We could blame operators as of that time for not settling claims as and when due. But now, we have the whistle-blowing policy in the industry,” she said.

She also outlined the goals of her administration, which involved embarking on image rebuilding campaign for the NCRIB.

“I want to say that we are trying as much as possible to educate the public so that they will know that insurance is very important. Before now, insurance had been the very last thing on the minds of Nigerians,” she stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]