Safety: Air traffic controllers canvass special airspace funding
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Air traffic controllers have asked the Federal Government to increase funding for airspace management.

The Nigeria Air Traffic Controllers Association said it had become necessary for the Federal Government to set aside special funds for manpower development.

The association also said the government should improve funding for the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency to reduce the agency’s financial burden in training technical employees.

The National President of NATCA, Mr Abayomi Agoro, said there was a need for more funds from government to complement that of NAMA for training of all professionals in the system.

He said the profession had been facing numerous challenges including shortage of critical manpower, lack of special funds for training, ageing communication facilities and delay in the approval of ATCs’ new scheme of service.

According to him, training has been a major challenge.

Agoro said, “I don’t want government to leave everything in the hands of NAMA. For example, we are trying to let government understand that there is a need to give NAMA additional funds to train not only air traffic controllers but all the professionals in the agency.

“Maybe they should get some allocation from BASA fund; there is a need for human capital development and NAMA alone cannot shoulder the responsibility. So, I feel the government should do that by allocating special funds dedicated to training mostly the technical staff.”

According to him, the special funds for training of technical staff will enhance safety.

He also urged the government to increase the retirement age of air traffic controllers from the current 60 years to 65 years in order to give room for new ATCs to learn from their older colleagues.

Agoro stated that Nigeria had yet to meet the International Civil Aviation Organisation’s stipulated 700 air traffic controllers.

“I don’t think we have up to 27 airports and airfield right now and some states are still trying to build new airports. It means that the less than 350 air traffic controllers are inadequate,” he said.

He explained that the number of air traffic controllers in the country was not enough to man various airports.

Agoro, however, commended the management of NAMA for recently recruiting more air traffic controllers, adding that the country’s airspace remained one of the safest in the world.

The NATCA president also called on airlines to work with the association to move the aviation industry forward.

According to him, aviation is one of the key areas that need to improve on its contribution to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product.

Agoro noted that with its natural and human resources, Nigeria would beat other countries surviving on aviation if the industry was well managed.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]