FG to establish 774 farmers’ service centres
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

The Federal Government is to establish 774 service centres for farmers across the country, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Sabo Nanono, has said.

Nanono said farmers would access improved seeds and other farm inputs from the centres.

He disclosed this during a town hall meeting with members of the All Farmers Associations of Nigeria in Kano, according to a statement issued by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in Abuja on Monday.

The minister was quoted as saying, “Already, we are planning to establish service centres across the 774 Local Government Areas across Nigeria where farmers can access improved seeds and other farm inputs.

“With the setting up of the service centres, equipment will be sourced and assembled in Nigeria to serve the rural and urban farmers.

“The Federal Government is attracting these companies to set up their factories in Nigeria and when they do that, it will generate more jobs.”

Nanono further stated that the government was working hard to improve mechanised agriculture in Nigeria, as he noted that this would boost production and create jobs.

He said the introduction of mechanised farming would enable farmers to embrace modern technology, enhance self-reliance and boost food production across the country.

“We need to give the government the necessary support and cooperation to enable it to achieve success in terms of food security, job creation and increased internally generated revenue,” Nanono said.

He urged farmers to rise up to the challenge of meeting the expectation of government for the sector, adding that the administration had a deliberate plan to attract investors and set up assembly plants in Nigeria.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]