Ogoni insists on local firm handling OML 11
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja

The Ogoni People’s Assembly has called on the Federal Government to give an indigenous firm, XAVON Energy, the operating licence for OML 11 in order to resolve the 26-year-old impasse.

The OPA leader, Probel Williams, who addressed journalists on Monday in Abuja, urged the Federal Government to consider a company owned by an indigene to avoid renewed agitation.

OPA is a coalition of Ogoni people drawn from all strata of the society- youths, academia, elders and chiefs.

Williams, who said they were ready to negotiate the terms with the government, said the Ogoni people had been looking forward to a day that a Nigerian company that understood their plight would be considered.

He said the Ogoni nationalities were facing serious existential threats resulting from “extreme youth unemployment (80 per cent) and the security challenges arising thereof.

Williams lamented the collapse of the school system in the Ogoni community, adding that out of 10 secondary schools in the Khana Local Government Area, only one was in operation.

He said, “We are of the view that much as it is the responsibility of government to address the above situations, it is our own responsibility to assist the government by supporting the utilisation of the resources in our land for the desired goal.

“The Ogoni oil fields have been abandoned for 26 years due to the intractable fight against the modus operandi of the IOCs particularly the SPDC. We have been looking forward to a day we can find a Nigerian company that understand our plight and can work with the Ogoni people. And we believe we have found such in Xavon Energy.”

The Chief Executive Officer of Youth Rescue International Development Organisation, Nature Kieghe, said the people were getting fed up with the manner the Federal Government had abandoned them in the scheme of things.

He said, “The next time we are going to talk about this, we will do something that will shake the whole world.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]