GTBank removes bank charges for young undergraduates
Nike Popoola

GTBank says it has removed all bank charges for undergraduates between 16 years and 25 years on its GTCRea8 account product.

A statement said the undergraduates could now bank for free, as the bank would cover all charges on transfers, USSD transactions and bank alerts for holders of its GTCrea8 Account.

It stated that GTCRea8 had been a core part of the GTBank’s value proposition to deliver value- adding banking services to young people, while empowering them to pursue excellence in their academics and respective interests.

Over the years, it added, thousands of university undergraduates had benefited from GTCrea8 concerts, masterclasses, digital trainings, education support grants, and several other initiatives championed by the bank to ensure students have a more rewarding campus experience.

Now, it added, millions of students across the country would be able to bank for free following the bank’s commitment to cover the cost of all banking charges for GTCrea8 account holders.

Some of the bank charges that GTCrea8 account holders would no longer have to pay included charges on bank transfers, even when the transfer was to other banks.

It stated, “Undergraduates will also not be charged for using 737, the bank’s industry-leading USSD service, nor will students be charged for transaction alerts received whether via SMS or email.

“GTCrea8 account holders will also enjoy special offers and discounts when they make use of GTBank’s trendsetting digital platforms, such as Habari, which offers access to music and video streaming, shopping, messaging, and bills payment all in one place.”

The Chief Executive Officer, Guaranty Trust Bank, Segun Agbaje said, “Empowering young people in every way we can is the most valuable investment that we can make for the future.

“That is why we have taken this bold step to cover the cost of all their banking charges, not just to allow them to bank for free, but also to inspire them to imagine a world free of all limits to their ambitions, and in which they can achieve their greatest dreams.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]