Access Bank acquires Kenyan bank, gets CBN approval
Nike Popoola and

Feyisayo Popoola

The Central Bank of Nigeria has given Access Bank Plc an approval to acquire Kenya’s Transnational Bank.

The Board of Directors at the Access Bank Plc on Monday confirmed the proposed acquisition of the Kenyan Bank, according www.pulse.ng.

Transnational Bank is a medium-sized commercial bank with a focus on Kenya’s agricultural sector.

Access Bank announced the completion of the second phase of its integration, where all core banking platforms were merged into one.

The bank said in a statement on Monday that the completion of the phase heralded the delivery of one of the most robust banking platforms in the world that would serve its rapidly-growing base of over 30 million customers seamlessly and enhance its service delivery and uptime targets to facilitate customer delight in its banking services.

According to the statement, one of the benefits of the integration is the simplicity of initiating and receiving bank transfers as customers will no longer need to select between ‘Access’ or ‘Access (Diamond)’ when transacting.

The Group Managing Director, Access Bank, Herbert Wigwe, lauded the various committees for their efforts during the period of the integration, saying, “A special thank-you to the integration committee for ensuring all the milestones expected at the various stages of integration were achieved within the scheduled timeframe.”

The Executive Director, Retail Banking, Access Bank, Victor Etuokwu, added that the bank was now better positioned than ever to serve its customers with the best solutions and service the industry had to offer.

He said, “At Access Bank, delivering the best services possible to our customers remains our highest priority. We can now offer the best digitally-driven financial solutions that will make our customers’ transactions simpler, faster, convenient and even more secure than ever.”

Etuokwu said the bank was making all NIBSS-Instant-Payment transfers free from November 1 to 7.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]