Retirees seek dialogue with NPA over pension review
Ife Ogunfuwa

Pensioners under the aegis of Nigerian Ports Authority Pensioners’ Welfare Association are seeking an audience with the Nigerian Port Authority over their right to an upward review of pension.

The association said the NPA pensioners had never been treated fairly by the NPA management on pension increment and was seeking dialogue to resolve the issue.

According to the association, the only legally and statutory body recognised by the government to regulate the activities stated in the Section 173 of the 1999 Constitution of the Nigeria (as amended) is the National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission.

Speaking with our correspondent on Monday, the President, Nigerian Ports Authority Pensioners’ Welfare Association, Charles Binitie, said on the issue of pension review, the NPA management had refused to consult with the commission.

He accused the NPA of flouting the 1999 constitution which stipulated that the pension in the public service should be reviewed every five years or together with any review of salaries, whichever came first.

Binitie said the claim made by the NPA that it had been complying with the five-year review of pensions as stipulated by the constitution was false.

He said serving employees of the NPA enjoyed 400 per cent upward review of their salaries in 2008 as approved by the salaries and wages commission, while pensioners’ allowances remained the same.

The group also accused the NPA management of unilaterally giving a three per cent pension increase without the approval of the commission.

He said, “The the three per cent pension increment by the NPA is ridiculously paltry, and a crying shame when compared to the 400 per cent increment approved for serving employees; when compared with the pensions paid by parastatals on the same A Grade with the NPA in the Central Bank of Nigeria, the NNPC, NIMASA, among others.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]