NixxHash Communications organise free workshop to promote SMEs skill in Ikorodu
A media consulting firm, NixxHash Communications has concluded plans to host its second edition of a workshop to boost the skills of small and medium enterprises.

The workshop, titled How to Boost Your Business Using Social Media is slated for Thursday, October 31st and it is poised to help business owners within Ikorodu area of Lagos make the best out of their available resources to position their brands globally.

Commenting on the workshop, Brand Strategist, NixxHash Communication who doubles as the Convener, Adenike Fagbemi, said it is no longer news that a lot of entrepreneurs/business owners do not have the basic knowledge on how to drive sales using their online hubs. Hence, the workshop would engage business owners to put the basic tools, apps that can help make work easier and also drive sales.

“The Future is SMEs at the same time Collaboration is the new competition, all business owners in various communities need to understand this. Co-operation is a major catalyst and determinant for growth. They also need to understand that all multinationals we have now started small, it is pertinent to start understanding the basics now as a small business owner and enjoy the growth process. This, would help prepare a foundation for sustainability irrespective of the crush ahead.”

Considering the changes in economic policies and all, Small Media Enterprise Owners need to understand that challenges faced in the cause of doing business is all part of the growth process, the aftermath of the challenges is what determines how far one would go.

For the 2nd Edition of the Boost Your Business Using Social Media Event holding in Ikorodu, well-groomed young professional have been considered to handle various sessions that would help sharpen the mindset of this over 100 business Owners.

The topics and speakers for this year’s edition of #BoostYourBizIKD include; leveraging on Social Media Platforms to Drive Sales by Mr Kehinde Olofintuyi, an Online Marketing Consultant, CEO Pentacept LTD, how to Build a Content Marketing Strategy to Grow Your Business by Mr Gilbert Alasa, Lead Consultant, Osmosis Africa, converting your Online Store To A Sales Hub Using Basic Tools by Michelle Edoreh, CEO GistVille, step by Step Scrutiny & Auditing of Brand Pages to fit Global Business Standard by ‘Jumoke Awe, CEO OctoConsult & Convener BrandMe Class and content writing by Mr Solomon Archibong.

The Boost Your Business Using Social Media workshop is a Practical Idea Conception process to Sales optimization process event and all participants are I encouraged to come with an open mind to learn and unlearn and also with their Data enabled phones or laptop for the practical sessions.