$1.29bn Zungeru hydropower project 68% completed –Ministry
’Femi Asu

The $1.29bn Zungeru hydropower plant being built in Niger State has reached about 68 per cent completion level, the Ministry of Power said on Sunday.

The project is scheduled for completion in December 2021, with the first unit expected to start power generation to the national grid in December 2020, according to a statement.

The Minister of Power, Mr Sale Mamman, was quoted as saying during an inspection visit to the project site that he was satisfied with the pace and quality of work.

He said, “With the appreciable level of the work, the ministry will avail the contractors its maximum support in delivering the project within the time frame.”

Mamman urged the contractors to stick to the contract specification to ensure quality work.

Conducting the minister round the project, the Project Consultant, Mr Tunde Adewunmi, gave an assurance that the project would be completed on schedule, saying the contractors had no issue that might hinder its early completion, according to the ministry.

He was quoted as saying that the project, “which has the capacity to add about 700 megawatts of electricity to the national grid, is being constructed by the leading hydroelectric power contractors in China and the power plant is potentially one of the best in the country.”

According to him, the project is built to last for about 100 years.

The ministry said, “The Zungeru Hydroelectric Power Project, which is being financed by the China Exim Bank and the Nigerian government, is expected to compensate and relocate over 100 villages around the dam area.

“The Zungeru Reservoir, which is located immediately at the downstream of the Shiroro Reservoir, will become the second largest reservoir in Nigeria after Kanji Dam.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]