Capital market’ll commence as school subject by December — SEC DG
In this interview with FEYISAYO POPOOLA, the acting Director-General, SEC, Ms Mary Uduk, says the study of capital market as a subject in primary and secondary schools will commence before the end of this year among others issues

How far has the commission gone with its partnership with the Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council on the introduction of capital market studies in primary and secondary schools?

The curriculum has been developed for the introduction of capital market studies in primary and secondary schools; there is need to infuse it in certain number of subjects. The workshop that took place was the next phase to now infuse the curriculum in mathematics, accounting, business studies and other subjects.

The next option is development of the teacher’s guide. The Securities and Exchange Commission is driving the process, and before the end of the year, the capital market studies will become active.

There is a concern about the move to have capital market studies in the educational sector. Is SEC trying to work on regulations that would allow children or minors to invest in the market?

The capital market is a specialised market and SEC introducing children to the market is for them to learn the basic terms and be familiar with the terms. Parents usually buy shares in the name of their children and later transfer to them when they become adults.

Since minors cannot enter a contract until they turn 18 years, the essence is to catch them young, for them to know the risks and returns before they can invest on their own.

We have been talking about the commodity ecosystem are you using securities regulation to regulate the sector?

They are regulated like any other exchange; they have rules and their regulations are called general rules of application and exchanges. And in the same way that the Nigerian stock exchange, FMDQ are regulated and there are specialised rules that are applicable to them.

The commodities exchange is peculiar and because it deals with commodities particularly spot market, there is the futures market. In Nigeria today, we have not developed the futures market for the commodities exchange, we rather work on the spot market. The futures market is an advanced form of the spot market. Therefore, there are rules that specifically target a commodities exchange.

How is SEC prepared to handle bond applications by states? Are there any applications now?

I am not aware that there is any application from any state. If there is invasion, we would be very happy, it will be good because the state would clean up their accounts, it will be good for transparency. Any time they want to come, we are expecting them.

However, if they must come, we have rules and they must comply with our rules and one fundamental thing we look at is the total debt of the state including the proposed loan they want to take and compare it with their revenue and we have a limit to ensure that they don’t borrow more than necessary.

READ ALSO: Taking photos at accident scenes worrisome, says FRSC

Recently FMDQ secured approval to become a full- fledge exchange. What does that portends for us as country?

Competition is good for any environment. FMDQ as a full exchange is the second full exchange in the market; it will help strengthen the market and give people choice.

If you cannot do it here, you can do it there. We also expect other exchanges to come up. It brings down cost and improves efficiency.

What is the current status of unclaimed dividends in the country and what is the SEC doing to resolve the issues related to this?

According to the report received at the Capital Market Committee meeting, over 2.7 million accounts have been mandated and over 3.4 billion units of shares were regularised. By the next meeting, the department concerned would have reconciled these figures and provided the current update of the latest figure on unclaimed dividend.

What were some of the issues discussed at the CMC meeting?

The market was informed of the success recorded at the Lagos State Probate Registry and it was intimated of the need to extend it to Probate Registries across the country.

The Commission had earlier required market operators to register with their relevant trade groups to ensure compliance with these directives.

SEC also requires proof of registration with these trade groups as a prerequisite for operators to carry out transactions or make any submission at the Commission.

The Commission noted the challenges posed to the market over the uncertainty around the collection of stamp duties between the Federal Inland Revenue Service and the Nigerian Postal Service. We informed the market operators of the SEC and Capital Market Master Plan Implementation Council engagements with the office of the Vice President and the Federal Ministry of Finance to resolve this issue.

We expect this to be resolved very soon as well as our request to exempt equities transactions from VAT payments.

Was there any update from the multiple subscription committee?

The multiple subscription committee informed the meeting that the committee of heads of banking operations had agreed to collaborate with the Commission to display banners in banking hall all over the country, sensitising the public on the regularisation of multiple subscription of shares. Company secretaries of listed companies also agreed to display similar information on their website and offices.

So far, the regularisation exercise recorded the consolidation of 3.4 million units of shares.

After extensive discussions, what were some of the resolutions taken at the meeting?

The SEC would invite the National Information Technology Development Agency to the next CMC meeting to make presentation on the impact of the Nigerian data protection regulation to the capital market.

Also, the Commission would engage the Central Bank of Nigeria to include Electronic Dividend Mandate Management System charge in the guideline for bank charges.

The CBN has a published guideline for charges for the banks. Whatever kind of transaction that you do in the banking system, there is already an established bank charge, but the e-dividend charges are not part of the CBN charges and because of that, investors are having issues with banks where banks charge them.

Since they are not listed as bank charges, investors complain. So, SEC is engaging the CBN so that such charges can be listed.

It was also agreed that brokers and registrars are to make available to the committee on multiple subscription committee on a periodic basis number of regularised accounts and the SEC would engage relevant stakeholders on e-Dividend and multiple subscription account to ensure that complete data are transferred among operators.

We want to discourage unclaimed dividends as much as possible from building up from securities of listed companies and developing the modalities for validating register of members where the registrars are furnished with incomplete information such as missing account numbers.

What is the update on the linking of exchanges in Africa?

This is a project by African Development Bank and African Stock Exchange Association. It was set up in February 2019 and the idea is to allow for cross-border trading and settlements of securities transaction. It is also to provide a market within the African sub-region where people come from different countries to trade on the platform.

It has commenced already in West Africa and Ghana, and Nigeria have commenced trading.

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Govt insincere about tackling insecurity – Ex-DIG, Osayande

What is SEC doing to drive the penetration of technology in the capital market?

The Commission had in November 2018 constituted a committee to develop a Financial Technology road map for the capital market committee.

I am delighted to inform you that the road map was presented to the Capital Market Committee at the CMC meeting. The report highlighted the current application of FinTech in the market, opportunities, challenges and recommendations.

The report will be made available on the Commission’s website for input, comments and given the importance of the recommendations of the FinTech road map Committee and the need for timely implementations, the Commission will be setting up a FinTech road map working group to drive the implementation. This new Committee will be headed by Mr Ade Bajomo.

We also used the platform of the meeting to reiterate our support for FinTech in the Capital Market.

The committee was briefed of the effort to engage and guide FinTech startups that seek to operate in the capital market.

Capital Market operators were, therefore, urged to embrace FinTech not as a competitor but as enablers to their existing operations and processes.

We believe the capital market of our dreams can only be achieved through collaboration of all stakeholders.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]