Late Kofi Annan, Singapore’s CJ bag NCMG International awards
Late Kofi Annan and Chief Justice of Singapore, Sundaresh Menon, have been named as the 2019 NCMG International Peace Awards honourees.

In a press statement, the Negotiation and Conflict Management International said both honourees would be awarded on Thursday, November 14 by 6:30 pm at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja, Nigeria.

The organisation said the distinguished personalities merited the awards for their exemplary leadership qualities and selflessness among others.

The statement read in part, “The NCMG Special Recognition Award is a specialised award category which primarily honours individuals with a track record of exemplary leadership, selfless service and commitment to the overall improvement of humanity.

“Awardees in this category are carefully selected for the impact which their selflessness and passion brought towards meaningful change in the larger society.

“For the 2019 NCMG Peace Awards, the NCMG Special Recognition Award shall be posthumously given to the late Kofi Annan for his heroic efforts and success towards the restoration of peace in hostile countries including Nigeria.

“He worked towards ending human rights abuse by implementing the adoption of the UN’s first-ever counter-terrorism strategy and ensuring that the Member States worked towards achieving the goal. Mr Annan undertook wide-ranging diplomatic initiatives even after his term as Secretary-General in the UN and he still remains an agent in promoting human rights, good governance and peace through his foundation called the Kofi Annan Foundation. The Foundation saves several lives from the violent extremism and supports countries facing difficult elections by providing elaborate solutions.

“The second person considered equally deserving is Justice Sandaresh Menon for his exemplary leadership in strengthening the legal framework and improvisation of international relations of Singapore. Justice Menon is the first Singapore- born and non- Chinese Chief Justice of the Republic of Singapore.

“He has served the Supreme Court under various positions before becoming the Chief Justice and is the Chairman of the Presidential Council for Minority Rights, a Council that safeguards the citizens against implementation of discriminatory laws by the Government.”