Edo targets higher GDP, improved business environment
The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has identified the state’s economic growth in terms of Gross Domestic Product as one of the focal points of his administration.

He said the state government’s policies would move the state from its current sixth position to the topmost position in the country.

A statement on Sunday reported the governor to have said this while delivering a speech at the 33rd Annual General Meeting of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, with the theme, “Growth, Development and the Nigerian Economy.”

He said the dream of his administration was to create and sustain conducive environment for investments in the state.

This, he noted, would transform the state into an economic hub for businesses and other productive activities.

According to Obaseki, to achieve this dream, his administration embarked on a growth trajectory anchored on six-thematic pillars, which include investing in the people through education; building viable institutions and the launch of an economic revolution based on production.

He said, “I have tried to establish close relationship with the private sector in the last three years of my administration because of what the private sector stands for. I am confident that your support will enable us to achieve our dream of creating 200,000 jobs for Edo people.”

Obaseki said the economic revolution of his administration was hinged on agriculture, industrialisation, education, minerals, oil and gas.

The governor said, “We are the hub of electricity; we have almost 1,000 megawatts of electricity in the state and by the time President Muhammadu Buhari finishes with his reform in the sector, Edo State will have enough power. We are looking at engaging the private sector in the area of environment as our rain forest is fast depleting and we need to rethink how we treat our environment, as the level of flood has increased.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]