Linkage Assurance increases share capital to N15bn
Nike Popoola

Linkage Assurance Plc says it has secured the approval of its shareholders to increase the authorised share capital of the company from N7.5bn to N15bn.

It said it would achieve this by the creation of additional 30 billion ordinary shares at 50 kobo each.

A statement from the firm said this was to enable the general business insurer to meet the new minimum capital requirement set for insurance companies in the industry, and position it for bigger ticket risks in the market.

Directors of the company at an extra ordinary general meeting in Lagos also secured the approval of the shareholders to raise additional equity capital up to the maximum limit of the authorised share capital.

It also said it would achieve this whether by way of special placement or public offer, right issue or other methods or combination of any of them, either locally or internationally and upon such terms and conditions as the directors may deem fit in the interest of the company and subject to the approval of the regulatory authorities.

The Chairman of the company, Chief Joshua Fumudoh, addressing shareholders at the meeting said, “The new share capital regime provides unique opportunity for the company to strategically position itself as a key market leader within the insurance industry.”

Fumudoh assured the shareholders, that the board and management would utilise the additional equity capital to aggressively expand and grow the business and ensure consistent returns on investment to shareholders.

The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Linkage Assurance Plc, Daniel Braie, responding to questions from shareholders said the board had quite a number of options to recapitalise the company, but assured them that any decision that would be taken at the end of the day would be in the overall interest of the shareholders.

With nearly N200bn expected into the Nigerian insurance industry after the ongoing recapitalisation by underwriters, the sector was hopeful to emerge stronger, contribute reasonably to the economy and also able to offer good returns to investors, it stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]