Zama, Landwey to boost real estate investment
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Property technology firm, Zama, is partnering Landwey Investment Limited to expand its presence to professionals in the real estate industry.

Both investors said the partnership would also bridge the country’s housing deficit in the country.

The Chief Executive Officer of Zama, Abdulhakeem Sadiq, said the firm, which he described as a modern real estate platform, was created as an end-to-end support system for home buying, selling or renting process, based on an agent’s workflow through technology.

“Zama is a real estate company driven by technology aimed at empowering consumers with data, inspiration and knowledge around the place they live and work, connecting them with the best local professionals who can help,” he said.

“The company is building the first modern real estate platform, pairing the industry’s top talent with technology to make the search and sell experience intelligent and seamless. The idea of creating Zama is basically for everyone within Nigeria to use it to ‘seek’ and ‘reside’,” he added.

According to Sadiq, the partnership with Landwey is to bring cohesion to the property market, adding that the Zama App is an example of how tech-savvy African entrepreneurs and experts are harnessing global smarts, tech and efficiencies to create lucrative opportunities by solving economic challenges.

“Through the partnership with Zama, all Landwey agents and brokers will benefit from a data-driven platform that empowers them with data, inspiration to advise clients and market their portfolios in a more professional manner,” Sadiq said.

He said the platform would further help guarantee listing exclusivity and a more efficient system of interconnecting agents with geo-tagged properties and investors.

He explained that Zama had the permission from Google to access its back-end API to edit their map, integrate into its platform and put properties on the map.

Sadiq said Nigeria’s real estate market had its own peculiar problems but with a process driven by technology, the firm planned to greatly enhance the validity of property valuation, work with a reputable agent to help buy and sell properties.

He stated that the basic idea of the partnership between the two firms was to collaborate on harnessing its pool of brokers to provide a more seamless process of searching and acquiring properties around the country.

The Chief Executive Officer of Landwey, Mr Olawale Ayilara, said the government alone would not be able to solve the housing problem of the country.

He said the job of the government was not to build houses but to create the enabling environment for business to thrive.

He added that to move the industry forward, there should be more private-public partnership between government and industry experts.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]