NSIA commences ‘No Worries’ awareness campaign
Nike Popoola

NSIA Insurance has commenced an awareness campaign tagged ‘No Worries’ aacross the country.

The Managing Director, NSIA Insurance, Mrs Ebelechukwu Nwachukwu, said during a press briefing in Lagos that the campaign had gone live on some radio stations and the company’s social media such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

She said, “We are putting ourselves out there to remind our customers of our commitment to serving them well. We bear in mind their needs and provide tailor-made solutions to suit them.

“We are known as ‘The true face of insurance’ because we understand and respond to all aspects of the insurance business.”

As part of its business approach, the firm said it partnered with Multichoice on the DSTV Thanks Programme, to reward loyal DSTV subscribers with 10 per cent discount on four identified products.

The products are NSIA Comprehensive Motor Insurance, NSIA Motor Insurance- Third Party Fire & Theft, NSIA Householder Insurance and NSIA Personal Accident Cover.

NSIA Insurance disclosed its successful completion of the 2019 ISO Surveillance Audit by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria, after it was awarded the ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System Certification in May 2018.

It said this certification was achieved due to the successful implementation of the Quality Management System and priority for customer satisfaction.

It mentioned its travel insurance product with three main parts which were the Medical Services package which covered medical expenses for sickness and injuries, emergency medical evacuation and repatriation, repatriation of mortal remains to the home country, convalescence expense and dental treatment due to accident.

The Travel Assistance package covered terrorism, catastrophe, loss of passport, travel documents and luggage as well as trip cancellation and legal fees.

The third part was the Free Medical package which covered delivery of medicines, 24-hour phone assistance, and medical referral to local medical specialist, relay of urgent messages and personal liability to third parties for injury, death or property damage.

It also said it provided a unique health insurance policy which was in partnership with Hollard, one of South Africa’s largest independent insurance companies, and Cigna, one of the World’s leading providers of health benefits.

The managing director said NSIA Insurance placed high value on integrity and professionalism which was why the prompt payment of claims was a part of its commitment to customers.

“Proof of this is the payment of over N679m in 2017 and N2.4bn in claims settlement to our clients in 2018,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]