Genuine love for clients stands me out – Ishola
Khaerat Ishola, 22, is the CEO of a fashion brand, Labilabykhaerat. She talks to TOLUWALOPE KAREEM about her business and her plans for it

What is your educational background?

For my elementary and secondary education, I attended the Yaba College of Technology Staff School (Lagos), and FUNAAB International School (Abeokuta, Ogun State), respectively. I later studied Political Science at the University of Lagos.

How did you come about fashion designing?

I have always had a passion for fashion. Initially, I wasn’t sure if I wanted to have a career in that line but I definitely wanted to be involved in one way or the other. I started designing properly in 2011 when I had my first client. I was in SS1 then. Prior to that time, I used to sketch dresses in my school books and adjust my school mates’ uniforms with needle and thread. I can say fashion designing came naturally to me and I embraced it.

What services does your brand offer?

LBK is a fashion brand that caters for all women and for every occasion. We make ready-to-wear and do bespoke tailoring.

What was the inspiration for starting your own business?

LBK was inspired by my strong belief in women empowerment. I am a feminist, and I believe that good clothes give women confidence and power. I wanted to be a part of the community that celebrates women’s bodies, regardless of shape and size. I wanted women to be able to stand out confidently and feel beautiful without having to break the bank in search of designer wears. Basically, the business was inspired by the need to make women feel powerful in their clothes without having to go hungry. A lady in a nice dress is ready to take over the world.

How long have you been in business?

I started the business in 2016, so it has been about three years now.

What has been the major highlight of the business so far?

I’ve had a couple of great days, to be sincere, but I think the major highlight was in 2017. I had just started the business and I wasn’t as good as many others but a bride trusted me with her bridesmaids’ dresses, her reception attire and even the ushers’ outfits. I didn’t make as much money as I should have and it wasn’t as good as I wanted it to be but it meant a lot to me that someone believed in me even when she hadn’t really seen my potential. That actually made my year and I can never forget it. Of course, there have been a lot of great moments after that, and I’m thankful to God.

What are the major challenges you have faced over the years?

That would be rude customers. Women are a special breed with lots of attitude, impatience and disrespect. Some people feel because you don’t have a bank job wearing suits and heels, they can talk down on you. I think this is a major problem entrepreneur, in general, have. But I have been able to work on being extra patient and manage as many rude people as possible.

Do you plan on seeking paid employment?

Right now, no. However, I’m working towards getting a second degree, so maybe things might change with time.

What would you say is your recipe for success?

Hard work, dedication, and consistency, with lots of patience and prayers

Where do you see your brand in the next five years?

In the next five years, I see myself on the cover of magazines. And by God’s grace, my business would have grown to become a household name that deals in all types of women’s clothes and accessories.

How profitable is the business?

It is quite profitable. We are not there yet but we are gradually getting there.

What advice do you have for other entrepreneurs who are just starting out?

They should have a very positive attitude to work. It’s not going to be easy; you’ll want to give up so many times but just hang in there, be the best version of yourself and keep it going. Someday, your hard work will pay off.

What do you think makes you different from other fashion designers out there?

Genuine love for clients has to be what makes me stand out. All my clients are my friends. I try as much as possible to establish good relationships with my customers—not too personal but good enough to be able to share their true feelings about my work with me. I’m not exactly concerned about the dress and the money, but how the outfits make my clients feel. I love to see people genuinely happy, so I usually go back and forth to fix things and do the necessary adjustments.

Your brand caters only to female clients. Do you have plans to include men?

Actually, I currently make outfits for little boys under the age of five but I think that’s just what it’s going to be for a while. I’m not really a big fan of men’s clothing.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]