Imo community wants recognition in gas project
’Femi Asu

Obile Autonomous Community in Imo State has asked Shell Petroleum Development Company to include ‘Obile Ohaji’ in the name of a gas project in the state.

The community, in a letter addressed to the SPDC’s Managing Director, congratulated the company for securing the legal backing of the Federal Government to utilise its technology, funds, and human resources to develop the vast gas deposit in Oil Mining Lease 21 in the nearest future.

“This will serve as an enabler that will achieve such national goals such as employment, energy sufficiency, industrial growth, sustainable environmental development and improved social and living standards in Nigeria. However, you should recognise the hen that lays the golden egg,” it said.

According to the letter, 65 per cent of the proven gas reserves for the Assah North Gas Development Project are located in the community.

It said, “This gas reserve location is marked as Assah North Appraisal well in Umuoparaocha kindred of Umuoboke village in Obile Autonomous Community.

“Also in your development schedule for the project, you marked Obile as the primary treatment facility area of the project while Assah Community serves as your 200-man logistics field base.”

The community noted that a company, ANOH Gas Processing Company Limited, had been incorporated for the processing of future wet gas production from the upstream unitised gas fields at OML 53 and OML 21.

It said, “It is very clear that our autonomous community’s name, Obile, that accounts for almost two-thirds of the gas project that is widely circulated as the largest in West Africa is nowhere to be found in your scheme of things.

“Therefore, we request and recommend that Obile Autonomous Community, which is the location of OML 21, be given a place of prominence in the gas project as Obile Ohaji gas project and the company that serves as the conveyor of the project – AGPC – should also be known and addressed as OOH Gas Processing Company Limited.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]