Oil industry’s quest for more women gathers momentum
The low participation of women in the Nigerian oil and gas industry is a cause for concern for stakeholders, ’FEMI ASU writes

Economic empowerment of women in the African oil and gas industry remains an area insufficiently explored, the African Development Bank said in a recent report.

According to the report, promoting women’s economic empowerment in the industry has many potential benefits, such as more inclusive development, improved welfare for families, greater diversity and productivity, better corporate images of firms as gender champions.

“When women are employed in the oil and gas industry, they often hold lower echelon jobs with lower earnings than men,” the AfDB said.

Concerned about the low involvement of women in the nation’s oil industry, the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board organised a workshop this month to examine the challenges faced by women in the industry.

The Executive Secretary, NCDMB, Mr Simbi Wabote, noted that a recent study by the Global Energy Talent Index Report categorically declared that there was a chronic shortage of women in the oil and gas industry.

“It is estimated that women occupy about 50 per cent of non-technical positions at entry level, compared to only 15 per cent of technical and field role positions. Gender diversity decreases with seniority, with only a tiny proportion of women in executive positions,” he said.

The acting Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan, lamented the low representation of women in the industry, describing as alarming “the almost negligible stock of women who occupy technical or sit in executive boardrooms of oil companies in Nigeria.”

Citing data provided by the World Petroleum Council in its 2017 report, she said women accounted for just about a fifth of the workforce of global oil and gas companies including national oil companies, compared to almost every other sector surveyed in the report.

She said while men and women apparently set out on a general equal footing, women scarcely reached the top of the organisation.

This deficit may superficially be attributed to poor ambition among women; however, a more thorough study of scenario will paint a wider picture.”

According to Yemi-Esan, common among the impediments to the scaling of women’s participation in the industry are perhaps strongly held stereotypes and perceptions society has nursed over time with regard to women breaking the barriers of the conventional roles they have been constrained to and occupying decision-making positions.

She stressed the need for the country to maximise the economic potential of its whole labour force by promoting equal rights, access and opportunities for all at all levels.

She described the NCDMB as the most cardinal stakeholder and driver of gender mainstreaming in the country, “considering its mandate as well as the various mechanisms put in place by the board.”

Yemi-Esan said, “It is of great essence that present and aspiring female industry professionals pursue technically-inclined disciplines, which will in turn expose them to better opportunities in the oil and gas industry.

“Industry players and stakeholders equally have the responsibility of addressing risks associated with material and emotional safety of women through gender sensitive HSE standards as well as pursuing gender smart recruitment legislation.”

Wabote said there should be special initiatives to encourage women participation in the oil and gas industry.

He said women operators in the Nigerian oil and gas industry would soon benefit from gender-friendly policies on access to funding, award of contracts and support for research and development.

According to the AfDB report, some of the challenges that Small and Medium Enterprises face when trying to enter the industry include their fragmented, sole proprietor ownership structure, and a lack of substantial capital, access to credit information and fixed-assets.

The NCDMB boss said the board would review its strategy on the Nigerian Content Intervention Fund, adding, “Access to finance is very important and we will look at our policy to see how we can support women who are serious to do business.”

According to him, two companies managed by women have already benefitted from the NCI Fund because the NCDMB took deliberate actions to ensure that.

Wabote said the board would work with project promoters in the industry to ensure the award of some contracts to companies owned by women, including the Nigeria LNG Limited, which is set to start the execution of the Train 7 project.

He said the NCDMB would also encourage the study of sciences, technology, engineering and mathematics by young girls in secondary schools and drive the collation of data on women who participate in various sectors of the oil and gas industry in a bid to support them.

“Out of the total number trained by the board, women constitute about 20 per cent of the trainees and we hope to increase the number of women trained to meet up the industry’s skilled labour demand,” he added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the[email protected]