Lagos-Ibadan rail: CCECC relocates pipelines, build drains, stations
Rasheed Bisiriyu

The persistent rains in the Lagos area of the ongoing construction of a new Lagos-Ibadan rail line have not stopped the contractor handling the project, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation, from forging ahead with its work.

Specifically, the CCECC workers were on Friday seen on the construction site from Ebute-Meta to Iju railway corridor, excavating, relocating water and gas pipelines, constructing drains, bridges and erecting new level crossings and train stations.

The pipelines along the new rail line’s right of way were some of the encumbrances that have slowed down the pace of work on this section of the project in Lagos. The CCECC had earlier completed the track laying from Iju in Lagos to kilometre 157 in Ibadan.

Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, during one his recent inspections of the construction work gave the contractor December this year to complete the project to enable commercial operations to begin on the 156km fast rail line in the first quarter of next year.

To accelerate the pace of work and avoid any form of danger, the Nigerian Railway Corporation recently suspended the operation of the intra and inter-city narrow gauge trains (Lagos-Ijoko, Lagos-Apapa and Lagos-Kano).

Media consultant to the CCECC, Abdulraouf Akinwoye, who conducted some journalists round extent of ongoing work from Ebute-Meta to Iju, said, “We are committed to giving Nigerians a world-class standard gauge rail line.”

According to him, the contractor is in full control of many of the encumbrances hitherto inhibiting the construction work in the Lagos-Iju area through the application of its technical expertise and technological know-how.

Construction of drains, culverts and major earthmoving activities involving the excavation of the Lagos State Water Corporation’s water pipes were found to be ongoing at the Yaba rail area.

Akinwoye said after the pipes had been located and excavated, they had to be relocated by some metres out of the right of way of the rail track.

Track is already being laid in the areas where the relocation of the water pipes have been completed along with the necessary drainage system.

In the Mushin area, wall was found being constructed around track. This, it was said, was meant to protect the narrow-gauge railway corridor and prevent interference. This would also help in facilitating easy boarding for passengers.

The drainage system being constructed, Akinwoye said, was of two dimensions; one to protect the narrow-gauge, and the other for the standard-gauge rail line.

For those complaining that the construction had hindered their movement and water system, the spokesman for the CCECC also said modern drains and culverts would be constructed in the affected areas with proper fortification for relocated pipes.

He said, “Today, I want to believe that you have seen so much. We have been able to criss-cross about 23 kilometres from Ebute-Meta to Iju. We have discovered that while we are doing this project, many communities have been complaining, especially some will tell you that you have damaged their roads. I’m using this opportunity to appeal to all these communities to be patient with us.

“We remain totally responsible; we know what befits our communities. You will agree with me that most of these drains on the Lagos axis are blocked. But now with this project, the CCECC remains committed to ensuring that we give what I call modern drainage system to all the communities along the line.

“And that is why we are building solid culverts and overhead bridges in some places that will prevent flooding and ease movement. For instance, on the Ikeja axis, you can see us constructing a mega culvert. People from the Ashade axis will now drive with a smile at the end of this project.”

Akinwoye said the CCECC remained committed to meeting the demand of the FG, adding that its workers were working day and night to deliver on its promise.

Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo (then as Acting President) inaugurated the construction of the Lagos-Ibadan rail project on March 7, 2017 on the NRC compound in Lagos in line with the Federal Government’s plan to connect all state capitals and major cities by rail.

The Iju-Abeokuta section of the standard gauge new railway operated a daily free train for a few weeks as part of its trial run in February before it was discontinued.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]