See opportunities in budget deficit, FG tells OPS
Anna Okon

The Budget Office has asked private sector operators to see the inability of the Federal Government to meet its annual budget target as a business opportunity.

The Director-General, Budget Office of the Federation, Mr Ben Akabueze, gave this advice while presenting a paper titled, ‘A Critical Analysis of the Federal Government of Nigeria’s 2020 Budget Proposals’, at the 2019 Fellow’s Night and Investiture organised by the Institute of Directors, Nigeria.

Akabueze, who was represented by the Senior Technical Adviser in the budget office, Prof Olumide Ayodele, attributed the inability of the government to meet its budget target to the impact of both global and local factors on its revenue.

On the global scene, he said Nigeria’s export earnings were affected by the trade war between America and China, the Brexit and other factors.

He said at home, the situation at the Niger Delta impacted on oil production volume.

Talking about the assumptions and parameters driving the budget, Akabueze recalled that oil production benchmark of 2.3 million barrels per day for 2018/19 was not achieved and the best was between 1.8m to 1.95mb/d in 2019.

He said that this was why the oil production benchmark was reduced to 1.8mb/d in the 2020 budget.

He said, “Why is the country not able to meet these targets? Government’s budget is constrained because of low revenue. “The private sector needs to be able to see this as an opportunity for business. “What can government do to improve oil production? “What can the government do to improve pipeline security? “Members of the IoD should see this as an opportunity to partner with the government so that these issues can be addressed.”

According to him, it falls on the private sector to develop solutions to ensure that government’s revenue gets to government’s coffers, adding that the government is open to initiatives that will enable it to improve on its revenue collection.

Speaking further, Akabueze argued that even though Nigeria’s economic growth and foreign reserves had improved after the recession; these had not translated to increase in employment.

He said, “A lot still needs to be done. That is why this budget is about job creation and to sustain growth. The Federal Government cannot do this alone, so the private sector has to step in.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]