Ondo, German firm sign $1.1bn medical centre agreement
Friday Olokor

Ondo State Government has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with a Germany-based organisation, Medicus International, to build a Sunshine Medical City in Akure, valued at $1.1bn.

Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State said this was in fulfilment of his commitment to improve the health sector and facilitate modern healthcare in the state.

He said during the event held in Abuja that the facility would reduce the spate of medical tourism in the country.

The MoU was signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Ifedayo Abegunde while the Chief Executive Officer of Medicus International, Frank Spriewald, signed on behalf of the company.

Akeredolu said he was convinced that Medicus International had good intention to develop the medical infrastructure in Ondo State.

He said, “I am more than convinced that Medicus (International) has good intention. And as I told them when they came, I said coincidentally, about few weeks ago, I was in Germany and I saw their structure. When I was in Berlin, I was talking to another medical organisation to bring their facility to Ondo State. I was negotiating with them not knowing that someone else is already waiting for this.

“No doubt, we are interested in this. We have made efforts. We are already working on how to secure land very close the airport. It is an interesting thing.

“We are prepared to cooperate and we know that this sort of thing is to be done with a joint venture. The interest of Ondo State is there. We are giving the land. The joint venture itself will come up.”

The governor also announced that the state government had set up a five-man team led by his special adviser on health to facilitate the project and work with the Medicus International.

The facilitator for Medicus International, Chief Oludare Bello, said the time for the execution of the project would be 36 months.

He said the hospital would deal with all facets of healthcare, adding that the nearness to the airport became imperative because the hospital would have its own helicopter to transverse other parts of the state for medical purposes.

Bello explained that there would be other facilities in the hospital such as a conference centre, cinema, teaching hospital and a nursing school.

The Special Adviser to the Governor on Health, Dr Jibayo Adeyeye, said Medicus International was charged with the responsibility of looking for funds for project.

According to him, the state government is only investing 100 hectares of land with other routine approvals.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]