LCC set to restore vandalised Lekki-Epe streetlights
Rasheed Bisiriyu

Lekki Concession Company Limited says it is working with the Lagos State Electricity Board, the agency in charge of streetlights in Lagos, to restore streetlights along the Eti-Osa Lekki-Epe Expressway, recently vandalised by some hoodlums.

Already, the ring leader of the group of vandals of streetlight cables that reportedly damaged the facility and stole cables has been arrested.

A statement by the LCC, the operator/manager of the expressway said the restoration of the streetlights was underway and appealed to the people to patient as well as vigilant.

Our correspondent also learnt that a contractor had been appointed to fix the streetlights but the details were not immediately available as of the time of compiling this report.

The arrest of the vandals’ leader was said to have been made by the police patrol team of the LCC while the hoodlums were at work, digging and stealing armoured cables from the Maroko /Marwa axis of the expressway.

The Chief Security Officer of the LCC, Mr Solomon Tolofari, in a press statement said the gang of vandals had been responsible for the theft and vandalism of streetlight cables and traffic light controller causing the non-functioning streetlights along the Marwa axis of the expressway some few weeks ago.

He said, “This ugly situation made our security patrol teams to step up its efforts to track down these vandals. Our efforts paid off with the arrest of the ring leader of the group while other members of the gang fled, leaving their loot behind. “

Tolofari said that the suspect had been handed over to the Maroko Police Station for further interrogation.

He said that the security patrol team of the company “is working in conjunction with other stakeholders in the Eti-Osa Lekki-Epe corridor to fish out other streetlight cable thieves still lurking around the neighborhood.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]