Profit-taking sends stock market back to losing trend
Feyisayo Popoola

The nation’s stock market has reverted to its losing trend as investors exited positions in firms which had previously recorded gains.

The market capitalisation of equities listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange declined from N12.851tn on Wednesday to N12.831tn on Thursday.

The All Share Index shed 0.15 per cent to settle at 26,357.24 basis points, which worsened the year-to-date loss to -16.1 per cent.

A total of 449.240 million shares valued at N1.640bn exchanged hands in 2,810 deals, representing a 5.1 per cent increase in volume and 46.4 per cent decrease in value.

FCMB Group Plc (36.2 million units), Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc (29.3 million units) and Zenith Bank Plc (24.1 million units) emerged the top traded stocks by volume while Zenith Bank (N409.2m), GTB (N366.8m) and Guinness Nigeria Plc (N167.1m) led the top traded stocks by value.

Performance across sectors was mixed as three sectors recorded losses.

The insurance and oil and gas indices gained up 0.46 per cent and 0.54 per cent, respectively, on the back of price appreciation in Continental Reinsurance Plc, Consolidated Hallmark Insurance Plc and Forte Oil Plc.

On the flip side, the industrial goods index declined by 0.40 per cent due to sustained sell-offs in Lafarge Africa Plc.

Sell pressures in FBN Holdings Plc, UBA Group Plc, Guinness Nigeria Plc and Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc weighed on the banking and consumer goods indices, which lost 0.27 per cent and 0.28 per cent, respectively.

The AFR-ICT index traded flat.

Investor sentiment softened as market breadth (advance/decline ratio) weakened to 0.3x from the 0.6x recorded on Tuesday as five stocks gained relative to 20 decliners.

The five gainers recorded were Forte Oil, Consolidated Hallmark, Sterling Bank Plc, Dangote Sugar Refinery Plc and Continental Reinsurance.

The top losers were Guinness Nigeria Plc, GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria Plc, Ikeja Hotel Plc, UACN Property Development Company Plc and McNichols Nigeria Plc

“Given the sustained weak investor sentiment, we maintain a bearish outlook for the market in the near term,” analysts at Afrinvest Securities Limited said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]