PEBEC resolves 1,300 complaints against MDAs with app
Nike Popoola

The Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council says it has resolved over 1,300 complaints brought before it through an app introduced to improve the ease of doing business in the country.

This was disclosed in the Ease of Doing Business Executive Order 001 2019E01 compliance report.

Part of the report read, “Over the past 18 months, the REPORTGOV.NG has successfully resolved over 1,300 complaints across 19 participating Ministries Departments and Agencies. The solution recorded an overall 88 per cent resolution rate for all complaints.”

The app is an official public service feedback and complaints platform that supports the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council.

It explained, “The REPORTGOV.NG app is an official public service feedback and complaints platform that supports the business climate reforms being implemented by PEBEC. The platform facilitates the escalation and resolution of issues encountered with Ministries Departments and Agencies towards ensuring a more business-friendly environment.”

According to the report, the app is an initiative conceived by PEBEC and established by President Muhammadu Buhari in July 2016.

The app included a feedback mechanism for the MDAs, which had assigned administrators to handle complaints within 72 hours allowed for responding and resolving the issues involved.

It stated that its administrators had been trained in how to handle complaints and feedback from the app.

Over the last two and a half years, PEBEC in collaboration with SERVICOM and the Office of the Head of Service of the Federation had been tracking the MDAs’ compliance with the EO1 transparency and efficiency directives.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]