Expert faults debt utilisation system
Nike Popoola

The Federal Government has been advised to improve on information flow on debt utilisation in the country.

The advice was given in Lagos by an international financial advisor and stock broker, Akin Oladeji-Johnbrown.

While speaking on the country’s rising domestic and external debts, Oladeji-Johnbrown, said that the real trouble was that the debts had no visible impact on infrastructural development of the country.

Oladeji-Johnbrown, who also is the chief executive officer of Futures and Bonds Limited of Nigeria, USA and Canada, said,“We are increasing our debt and debt mix, but what are we doing with it? Is it to service expenditures or what?

“Frankly, there is no visible impact of these borrowings on infrastructure development. We still have a lot of abandoned projects here and there.

“Government as a matter of public policy should attach debt issuance in a transparent way to enable the public know how the debt is being utilised. It appears the current system of debt utilisation is opaque to the generality of the people; hence, government must improve on information flow.”

While expressing concerns over the huge debt profile of Nigeria, and the huge allocation in budgets for debt financing, he said,“There is nothing unusual in debt financing by any nation. In fact, in theory a little level of debt is required for enhancing corporate value.

“What is of concern is excessive debt. In the case of Nigeria, the statistics have shown that our debt service to revenue ratio is above 60 per cent, which is exceedingly high. Such high ratio increases the country’s default risk perception.

“The ability to withstand revenue shock decreases with increasing debt level. As a mono-product economy, a significant fall in oil price may affect our ability to meet debt obligation and subsequent spiral effects.”

According to the information posted by Debt Management Office on its website, he said, Nigeria’s total debt profile was N25.7tn ($83.88bn), comprising N17.38tn ($56.72bn) domestic, and N8.32tn ($27.162bn) external.

Oladeji-Johnbrown, said, “At this point, it may be advisable for government to stop further borrowing or restructure the use of existing debt for other uses.

He added,“Our infrastructure borrowing should be directed to revenue-yielding assets rather than use same for social reasons. Of what use is a rail line to middle of now where? Your rail or transport infrastructure should be constructed where you can move goods and services not where you just move people around for social reasons.

“Furthermore, government should create an enabling environment for private capital to flow into the economy without hindrances.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]