Ondo deep seaport implementation plans in final stage
Anna Okon

A Spanish firm, Ocean Infrastructure Management, and its Nigerian partner, Franchise and Business Solutions Limited, have concluded plans to meet with the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, over the Ondo deep seaport project on Thursday.

According to a statement from the firms, the meeting with the governor will also witness the presentation and adoption of the project implementation plan for the deep seaport, spelling out targets and timelines for the project completion.

Consultant to the Ondo State Government on the deep seaport project, Amiable Consultancy and Logistics Services Limited, said the project had continued to enjoy the interests of international investors from various parts of the world.

According to the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Amiable Consultancy and Logistics Services, Aina Egharevba, the deep seaport will open up the economy of Ondo State and create job opportunities for up to 20,000 people in the coastal areas of the state.

Egharevba, who is a former executive director, Marine and Operations of Nigerian Ports Authority, said some key milestones successfully achieved were the preparation of the port feasibility study, conduct of preliminary surveys such as the bathymetric/hydrographic survey and geotechnical survey, soil resistivity test, Met-Ocean studies, and topographic survey for the deep seaport.

She said the feasibility study and conceptual master plan for the new port had been approved by the NPA.

Egharevba said the visiting Spanish team would also carry out a review of key project issues and establish common understanding of the project objectives with officials of the Ondo State Development and Investment Promotion Agency.

“After this meeting, we will be moving to the next crucial stage, which is the development of the Outline Business Case and Final Business Case for this all important project. We are committed to working with officials of the Ondo State Government to realise the full vision of the governor for the deep seaport,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]