UPDATED: AfDB invests $50m equity in AFC 
…As AFC flaunts $6.6bn transactions

Everest Amaefule, Johannesburg

The African Development Bank on Wednesday announced a $50m equity investment in African Finance Corporation.

AfDB and AFC made the joint announcement at the ongoing Africa Investment Forum in Johannesburg, South Africa.

AFC was founded 13 years ago with equity fund from the Central Bank of Nigeria and some commercial banks including First Bank and Access Bank.

The AFC is a supranational institution established by treaty between member states.

Before the AfDB joined, the corporation had 22 states and one multilateral organisation (the African Reinsurance Corporation) as members.

The equity participation from AfDB brings to $1.75bn the paid-up capital of the AFC. It also gives AfDB a board membership position.

Executive Director, Financial Services, Sanjeev Gupta, represented AFC at the announcement ceremony while Vice-President, Private Sector, Infrastructure and Industrialisation, Pierre Guislain, represented AfDB.

READ ALSO: NBA, SANs, Atiku say hate speech bill draconian

Gupta said the equity participation of AfDB with Triple-A rating gives additional credibility to the corporation.

“This signifies a more lasting relationship,” Gupta said, adding that the corporation has had a robust relationship with AfDB since it was founded 13 years ago.

He disclosed that the corporation had executed $6.6bn transactions in 30 countries within the short period of its inception.

He listed some of the funding which the corporation had received to include $150m 15-year loan facility from KfW Development Bank of Germany and CHF100m (Swiss Francs) Senior Unsecured Bonds with a coupon rate of 0.85 per cent.

Others included US$150m Sukuk funding issued in 2017; $500m seven-year Eurobond issued in 2017; $300m facility secured from Export-Import Bank of China in 2018 and $650m seven-year Eurobond issued in 2019.

Guislain, on the other hand, lauded the relationship between AFC and AfDB, adding that the equity investment in AFC would consolidate the bond.

He added that 75 per cent of engagement of AfDB was in the public sector, adding that the concentration of AFC and some other Development Finance Institutions on the continent complemented the work of the bank.