Freight forwarders, transporters shun shipping charges
Anna Okon

Freight forwarders and transporters under the aegis of Concerned Freight Forwarders and Transporters have resolved not to pay all terminal charges after receiving the Terminal Delivery Order from seaport terminals.

The TDO is issued by a terminal operator to the owner of goods when they are deemed to have completed all clearing formalities and can take the goods out of the terminal.

In a letter addressed to terminal operators and maritime industry regulators, the group claimed that after completion of all clearing formalities and issuance of the TDO, owners of the goods were usually unable to get their trucks into the terminals to pick the goods.

The group pointed out that the situation was usually caused by congestion at the entrance gate, saying the trucks could spend days at the gate while attempting to go in and load.

They said while the trucks battled to enter, the terminal operators and shipping companies usually charged demurrage on the containers for the delay that was not their fault.

According to them, when the owners finally take delivery of the goods and return the empty containers, the shipping companies will refuse to receive them on account of lack of space.

They added that as long as the owners battled to return the containers, the shipping companies would continue to charge them for demurrage.

The letter stated in part, “Having resolved that enough is enough, we hereby give notice to all shipping companies and terminal operators that with immediate effect, we will not pay any demurrage charges that arise after the TDO has been issued but we are unable to load our consignment.

“Similarly, we will no longer pay any illegal demurrage passed unto us for failure of service providers to receive empty containers our clients return to them.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]