Group to publish states’ budget transparency index
Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja

The Civil Resource Development and Documentation Centre has said it has concluded its survey on the level of budget transparency and fiscal discipline in states. The organisation said the outcome of the survey, which would be released on November 19, was targeted at ensuring an open, inclusive and accountable budget and procurement process. The group said in a statement that while the Federal Government had made progress in its war against corruption, Nigerians were still craving for a transparent budget and procurement process. In recent times, there had been claims that many states budget were shrouded in secrecy and procurement process not transparently done in line with international standards.

The statement said the general goal of the survey was to instil transparency in budgeting and budget process across the 36 states of the federation by focusing on four key indicators. The indicators are public availability of budget information; public participation in the budget process; public availability of procurement information, andlegal framework on access to budget information and fiscal responsibility. It said the survey funded by the Department For International Development would also evaluate the amount allocated to different types of spending; the revenues collectedand how international donor assistance and other public resources were used. It read in part, “Transparency is an important first step to holding governments accountable on how they use the people’s money. “It is against this background that CIRDDOC developed the state budget transparency survey project with the objective to compare the degree of budget transparency across states.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]