Making fortune from cassava (3)
ANNA OKON

This concluding part of the series on cassava focuses on crop rotation, reducing post harvest losses, storage and marketing.

Please read the previous editions to get a full understanding of the series.

Rotating cassava with other crops

Don’t plant cassava in the same field year after year. This could breed diseases, increase level of pests and reduce the crop yield.

Wait for at least two years before planting cassava in that same field. During the wait, plant other crops such as pumpkin, maize and groundnuts.

According to www.google.com/search, one approach to crop rotation is to divide your plants into these four basic groups: legumes, root crops, fruit crops and leaf crops. Imagine your garden separated into four areas.

A three-season rotation example that can be used in organic cassava production is maize-beans/cassava/groundnuts, according to agriguide.org.

How to reduce post-harvest losses in cassava

The rapid post-harvest deterioration of cassava restricts the storage potential of the fresh root to a few days, according to the Food and Agricultural Organisation of the United Nations.

In addition to direct physical loss of the crop, post-harvest deterioration causes a reduction in root quality, which leads to price discounts and contributes to economic losses.

To prevent this, fresh cassava is usually sold to buyers within days of harvesting.

Traditionally, the cassava roots are processed into other uses such as garri, fufu, chips and starch shortly after harvest. This way, they are not left to rot.

Cassava harvesting

Early-maturing cassava varieties are ready for harvesting at seven months, while late-maturing varieties are ready 12 months after planting.

The proper stage for harvesting is when the leaves turn yellow and fall down and the roots are mature. It is advisable to harvest cassava once it is mature.

If the tubers are left in the ground over long periods, they lose quality and become woody due to hydrolysis of starch to sugar.

The first thing to be done after the harvest is to transport the tubers from the production and harvest field to the processing and utilisation site. This is because fresh cassava is highly perishable (within two to three days after harvesting).

Cassava preservation

To preserve freshly cultivated cassava tubers, bury them in trenches lined with straw. Put the container under the shade and prevent water from getting into it.

Store the tubers in wooden crates containing damp sawdust. However, if the sawdust is too moist, it may promote fungal growth and if it is too dry, the roots deteriorate quickly.

Line the crates with perforated plastic to prevent dehydration of the sawdust.

You are expected to store cassava tubers below four degrees centigrade to reduce deterioration.

Also, you can freeze the tubers.

Note that although freezing will preserve the cassava flavour, it will change the structure of the tubers, making them spongy.

Cassava sale and marketing

In addition to serving home consumption, cassava is also needed as raw materials in industries.

To be able to sell your cassava to markets outside Nigeria, you need to abide by global standards.

One way of doing this is obtaining global certification that guarantees that the product has quality.

Global standards requirements specify method and quantity of fertilizer and pesticide to be applied to the plant.

It also specifies production methods.

To sell cassava to a global market, you have to produce on a large scale and this requires a large farm and a processing facility.

You may need to work in cooperation with other farmers and pool resources together to establish a large-scale production.

Additional requirements for production and post-harvest handling of cassava may be defined by specific national or international organic standards.

Find out more from the Nigerian Export Promotion Council about standards for growing and exporting cassava.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]