We’re tackling those faking our products –Mouka boss
Samuel Awoyinfa

The managing director/chief executive officer, Mouka Limited, the producers of Mouka mattresses and Mozzi range of insecticides, Mr Raymond Murphy, has said that the company has overcome the incident of some unscrupulous people faking the company’s products, especially in the eastern part of the country.

He said the company had dragged some culprits to the law courts, and it had ensured that it had continued to employ top notch technology in producing quality foams and beddings.

Murphy disclosed after taking journalists on tour of the company in Lagos, as part of activities marking its 60th anniversary of the company’s entry into the Nigerian market.

He said, “We have overcome the incident of faking of our products, as we are in court already with some of those faking our products. We have remained consistent since 1959, producing quality products.”

He added that the company had built an enduring brand in the last six decades, describing Mouka as a truly indigenous company as it is staffed by about 801 employees who are Nigerians, with him being the only expatriate.

The company, he said, “has over 300 distributors, some of whom are second generation distributors who have been with the company for over 40 years.”

Murphy also praised the shareholders of the company for giving quality and wholesome support to the company over the years.

“This is a big milestone for us. At 60, we are the market share leader in the foam and beddings sector. Recent research, according to some marketing professionals whom I met on my last trip to Dubai also attest to the fact that Mouka is not only the leader in Nigeria, but also in Africa and the Middle East.”

Recall that ahead of the 60th anniversary, Mouka, was last week, endorsed by the Nigeria Association of Orthopaedic Manual Therapists.

The endorsement came on the back of its consistency in quality delivery and innovative mattress production, according to the President of NAOMT,Onigbinde Ayodele.

Also, the company was last month recognised by the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association for safe work environment. This is anchored on its 2018 Occupational Safety and Health audit exercise following what the association described as an exceptional performance by the indigenous manufacturer.

It has been recognised twice by the London Stock Exchange Group, in the group’s Companies to Inspire Africa report.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]