Manufacturers allege exploitation by ministries
Stories: Samuel Awoyinfa

The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria in Ogun State has lamented the increasing burden of demands on its members by the state’s Ministry of Environment and the state Environmental Protection Agency over submission of ‘Due Diligence Report’ for operational environment.

MAN complained that the ministry had been pestering its members for the submission of Due Diligence Report after they have submitted the conduct test on a quarterly basis to the ministry .

The state Chairman, MAN, Saleem Adegunwa, said this on behalf of the members at the 14th quarterly interactive session between MAN and the State government.

Adegunwa described the N2.5m cost for the report demanded by the Ministry as “enormous and a huge burden” on the members in the state.

The chairman, however, expressed concern that the Ministry of Environment and Ogun State Environmental Protection Agency were also demanding the same report from members using different nomenclatures.

He complained that in 2017 and 2018, no test was conducted despite the payment of the N2.5m by members.

He, however, urged the state Governor, Dapo Abiodun to look into the issue,adding that after MAN members had paid for the report twice during the tenure of the immediate-past administration, the Ministry of Environment was still demanding same amount.

In her remarks, the consultant to the Governor on Commerce and Industry, Mrs Shola Arobieke, said the governement recognised the vital roles of the manufacturers in the socio-economic development of the state.

Arobieke reiterated the commitment of Abiodun’s administration to keep Ogun as the investors’ destination of choice.

Corroborating her, Special Adviser to the Governor on environment, Ola Oresanya, assured MAN members that the present government would look into their demands.

Oresanya added that knowledge and information gap between MAN and the state’s regulatory authorities might have been responsible for the unpleasant past.

He said, “There is a knowledge gap between the regulator and those of you who are doing what you are doing. There is an information gap and we need to bridge this gap; you need to know the reason why some of these things are the way it is.

“I will not shy or pretend to give you something decisive today, but I want to recommend that we have like a working group with MAN and environment so that we can sit down together and exchange ideas after looking into the problems in details.

“This is my first time of being with you and I would like if you hold me by my words, we need to find a way forward and the committee starts work as soon as possible.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]