CIBN urges speedy resolution of financial disputes
Ifeanyi Onuba

the President, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria, Dr Uche Olowu, has said the timely disposition of cases relating to the banking sector will shore up public confidence in commercial banks and promote economic growth.

He said this at a national seminar on banking and allied matters for judges.

According to him, the Judiciary and the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria are indispensable partners in ensuring the stability of the financial system in this country.

He expressed optimism that with the seminar, these challenges would be surmounted.

He said, “We cannot shy away from the fact that there are numerous challenges facing the banking sector among which are the interplay between financial technology and traditional banking as we know it; the complexities of this interface, and their attendant consequences.

“Indeed, these are innovations which, though have been introduced with the most sincere intentions; more often than not cause disruptions to traditional banking as we know it in Nigeria.”

Olowu also said, “The question which we cannot evade, however, remains whether our banking laws are relevant in the light of the recent trends and developments in the banking sector. Or is there an urgent need for law reform?

“Having said this, I must not fail to emphasise that the timely disposition of cases relating to the banking sector will shore up public confidence in commercial banks and promote economic growth.

“In this light, I believe the Judiciary will continue to ensure that banking matters are adjudicated with utmost dispatch.”

The Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Mohammed, said the speedy resolution of financial disputes remained critical for ensuring confidence in the financial system.

He said that this would further strengthen the confidence of investors that their investments were safe.

He also assured the nation that the judiciary would ensure that disputes were resolved in line with constitutional and statutory provisions.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]