Unilever to eliminate 100,000 tonnes of plastic 2025
A global consumer goods company, Unilever, has said it will eliminate over 100,000 tonnes of plastic packaging, collect and process more plastic packaging than it sells by 2025.

Unilever, which produces brands including Dove, Ben & Jerry’s, Lipton and Omo expressed the new commitment in a statement made available to our correspondent.

The statement read, “By 2025, Unilever will halve its use of virgin plastic by reducing its absolute use of plastic packaging by more than 100,000 tonnes and accelerating its use of recycled plastic.

“It will help collect and process more plastic packaging than it sells.”

It added that this commitment made Unilever the first major global consumer goods company to commit to an absolute plastics reduction across its portfolio.

The company said it was on track to achieve its existing commitments to ensure all of its plastic packaging were reusable, recyclable or compostable by 2025, and to use at least 25 per cent recycled plastic in its packaging, also by 2025.

The chief executive officer of Unilever, Alan Jope, said, “Plastic has its place, but that place is not in the environment. We can only eliminate plastic waste by acting fast and taking radical action at all points in the plastic cycle.

“Our starting point has to be by design, reducing the amount of plastic we use, and then making sure that what we do use increasingly comes from recycled sources. We are also committed to ensuring that all our plastic packaging is reusable, recyclable or compostable.

“This demands a fundamental rethink in our approach to our packaging and products. It requires us to introduce new and innovative packaging materials and scale up new business models, like re-use and re-fill formats, at an unprecedented speed and intensity.”

He added that this commitment would require the business to help collect and process around 600,000 tonnes of plastic annually by 2025, stating that it would be delivered through investment and partnerships which improve waste management infrastructure in many of the countries in which it operates.

The Founder, Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Ellen MacArthur, said the announcement by Unilever was a significant step in creating a circular economy for plastic.