Concerns grow over Nigeria’s energy poverty
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

Experts have expressed concerns over the poor energy output in Nigeria both in the petroleum and power sectors as the country joins the global community to mark the 2019 World Energy Day.

Every 22nd day of October is observed as the World Energy Day and also used to raise awareness about global energy-related issues. The WED was reportedly proclaimed on July 22, at the World Energy Forum in 2012.

Operators in Nigeria’s energy sectors stated that the WED had always been used to raise awareness around the creation and implementation of policies that increase energy efficiency and conserve natural resources.

They further noted that one of the aims of the World Energy Day was to demonstrate the impact of energy choices made by countries and individuals with regards to production and use on the environment.

However, operators and experts under the aegis of the Nigerian Association of Energy Economics expressed concern over the low level of energy output in Nigeria despite the humongous investments in the country’s power and petroleum sectors.

NAEE is an affiliate of the International Association for Energy Economics, which has presence in over 70 countries across the globe.

Speaking on behalf of the association, its President, Yinka Omorogbe, stated that the NAEE was marking this year’s WED celebrations by highlighting the impact of poor energy supplies to the Nigerian economy.

She said the association’s programme for the 2019 WED, with the theme, ‘Energy Sustainability in Africa: Unlocking the energy and climate change equation,’ was put together to help Nigeria consider the place of energy planning in its energy production and supply matrix.

Omorogbe said, “This year, we are interested in promoting and amplifying the discussion on energy in Nigeria and why we must have it, all of us, not just the urban dwellers or industries, but also the rural dwellers.

“People in Nigeria don’t realise that practically every development issue can be traced to a lack of modem energy. You can’t get good teachers into village schools if these villages have no electricity or modern water systems driven by energy.

“You also can’t have basic health without energy, because medicines need to be kept at certain temperatures.”

The NAEE president explained that the poor energy output in Nigeria had drastically reduced the country’s overall economic performance over the years, a development that had been confirmed repeatedly by both internationally and locally recognised institutions.

Nigeria currently relies on imported petroleum products to service local demand for fuel. Also, the country’s total power generation of about 3,500 megawatts, had been described as poor by local and international observers.

By key global standards, Nigeria has remained poor in its energy production and supply.

The World Bank in its 2018 proposal to support the country’s power sector, stated that firm-level data from its 2014 Nigeria World Bank Enterprise Survey showed that provision of electricity supply remained the biggest constraint to doing business in Nigeria.

It explained that power supply was the most significant obstacle in all regions of the country, except the North-West.

It stated that younger firms, exporters, and manufacturers operating in Nigeria were most likely to identify provision of electricity as their biggest obstacle.

The bank stated that having reliable electricity supply was consistently associated with higher levels of productivity, but stressed that among households in Nigeria, electricity access was still limited with a large variation across the regions of the country.

The NAEE observed that these challenges had hindered growth and had thrown millions of Nigerians into untold hardship.

“Infant and maternal health suffer in Nigeria; for instance, imagine falling into labour at night and the nurse or doctor had to take delivery using a kerosene lamp,” Omorogbe stated.

She added, “Do you know that kerosene is incredibly expensive and yet that’s what rural and urban poor are forced to use?

“Do you know that kerosene and firewood kill hundreds of thousands of people, mainly women and children every year?”

The NAEE president stated that Nigeria had failed to comprehensively develop its numerous energy sources, thus leaving a large percentage of its population without access to healthy energy sources.

This, she said, was a poor developmental practice that must change to move the country forward.

Omorogbe said, “We are using little or no modern energy, whether fossil fuels, solar or wind. At the same time our poor citizens are existing on biomass and cutting down trees for their energy.

“We who are energy poor need to unlock sustainable energy now more than ever. Climate change issues are real. We have to grow, all of us and the only way is through sustainable energy.”

The NAEE president added, “I am not saying no fossil fuels. For Nigeria we need to harness our petroleum for our own good and expand. It should be first for our development, and secondarily, as a source of revenue.

“We need to utilise our renewables such as hydro, solar and wind, especially for off grid communities. We need to think and act strategically, with an eye on the future.

“The Gulf producers are all doing that. We need to stop the shame of being both a major producer of crude oil and a major importer of refined products.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]