OVH Energy, Oando upgrade school in Port Harcourt
’Femi Asu

OVH Energy Marketing Limited says it has partnered with the Oando Foundation to upgrade of a model primary school in Onne, Port Harcourt, Rivers State.

According to a statement, the school is a beneficiary under the Oando Adopt-A-School Programme and is within OVH Energy’s host community.

OVH Energy said the strategic partnership came on the heels of its efforts to foster the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goal on basic education, while reinforcing the its commitment to improving access to basic education.

The Chief Executive Officer, OVH Energy Marketing, Mr Huub Stokman, reiterated the firm’s commitment to enabling a serene and conducive learning environment in its host communities.

He said, “Education is a basic requirement for every child and the primary level is especially important as it lays the foundation for growth that is why we decided to embark on this project alongside Oando Foundation.

“This initiative brings us closer to our aim of delivering social value, building cordial and sustainable relationships within our areas of business operations.

He commended Oando Foundation for the opportunity to leverage its platform and pedigree “as an independent charity with a mission to improve the quality of teaching and learning in Nigerian public primary schools.”

The Head of Oando Foundation, Mrs Adegoke said the foundation leveraged strategic partnerships with various local/international organisations to mobilise resources to its adopted school communities.

She said the foundation partnered with OVH Energy to upgrade the school, with the supply of several new units of furniture for pupils and teachers, and teaching and learning materials, and renovation of a block of classroom and general repairs.

“OVH Energy had supported our work through the years and we believe that partnership is key to scaling education in Nigeria and we request all stakeholders – government, businesses, communities and innovators – to join us to transform lives through education,” she added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]