Leaders make mistakes from wrong information — commissioner
Anna Okon

The Lagos State Commissioner for Establishments, Training and Pensions, Mrs Ajibola Ponnle, has declared that both leaders and the led are prone to wrong and misplaced information in the Information and Communication Technology age.

She stated this at a recent training organised by the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria in Lagos.

According to her, the global world of Internet, cell phones, televisions, computers and other electronic devices have transformed communication.

She said, “We the citizenry, both leader and the led, get sufficient information across the globe and most times we are over-informed, misinformed or even ‘disinformed’ at the speed of a bullet.

“From that, divergent opinions, postulations as well as insinuations would have been formed. Thus, leaders, more than ever, are confronted with a barrage of opportunities and challenges on how to stabilise the polity and still earn respect, trust and confidence of their fellow members.”

Ponnle emphasised that like any other leadership, labour leaders ought to be better equipped with skills, knowledge, competence and attitude to manage their followers in a more creative and productive manner.

She added, “Obviously, dependence on residual skills and rhetoric might be grossly deficient to address the contemporary complexities associated with the onerous responsibility of being a labour leader.

“That you have subscribed to a continuous yet impactful learning programme to develop and boost capabilities of labour leadership resonates with the sayings of Alvin Toffler that ‘the illiterates of the 21st century will not be those who cannot read and write but those who cannot learn, unlearn and relearn.’

“In effect, I consider it imperative to implore you not only to sustain but to improve on it.”

She maintained that the administration of Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Lagos State governor, was very committed and focused to the actualisation of the vision of making Lagos one of the top five African cities of choice to invest, live, work and recreate as a tourist destination.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]