Range Rover redesigns Velar with all-terrain capability
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Range Rover has released a redesigned version of its Velar model and it is named the Velar SV Autobiography Dynamic Edition.

Its British automaker, Jaguar Land Rover, in an emailed statement obtained on Monday, says the vehicle has been redesigned to offer new levels of luxury, refinements and all-terrain capability.

Created by Land Rover Special Vehicles, the SV Autobiography Dynamic Edition is described as the most powerful and luxurious Velar yet since the model made its debut in 2017.

The automaker says this is to fill the white space between the Range Rover Evoque and Range Rover Sport.

It adds that the new edition has been unveiled in sub-Saharan Africa, with a selection of four- and six-cylinder diesel and petrol engines, and comes as a range-topping Velar SV Autobiography Dynamic Edition with V8 supercharged power.

The automaker says the new edition is powered by a 405kW and 680Nm 5.0-litre V8 supercharged engine, and features a range of design enhancements, and will be available for one year only.

It explains that the powerful new model accelerates from 0-100 kilometres per hour in 4.5 seconds and is capable of 274km/h, while cosseting customers with traditional Range Rover refinement and comfort.

Jaguar Land Rover says the up-rated brakes and suspension components, plus bespoke settings for everything from the powertrain to the safety systems, ensure the SVAutobiography Dynamic Edition mixes the personality of a performance car with the go-anywhere capability of a luxury mid-size SUV.

Exterior

Looking at the external features, it says the mid-size SUV features include a new front bumper with larger air intakes to feed the V8 supercharged engine and cool the up-rated braking system as well as a new grille and lower side mouldings combine with a revised rear bumper featuring integrated quad exhaust finishers.

“The exterior changes combine with a transmission tunnel under tray to ensure the fastest Velar in the range cuts through the air more efficiently,” the automaker says.

“Even the Range Rover lettering on the bonnet and tailgate has been enhanced, with a knurled finish on the metal element of the two-piece letters adding a fresh degree of sophistication to the exterior,” it adds.

The SVAutobiography Dynamic Edition is also said to be the only Velar available in Satin Byron Blue – a unique metallic paint finish from Special Vehicle Operations – and all models feature a contrast Narvik Black roof as standard, according to Jaguar Land Rover.

“The lightweight 21-inch forged aluminium wheels weigh the same as the 20-inch rims on the core model, but customers can also specify optional 22-inch rims with a unique Silver Sparkle finish and diamond-turned edging or with a Dark Grey finish. Its larger diameter 395mm front and 396mm rear brake discs feature two-piece construction to optimise weight and dissipate heat more effectively while red brake calipers with Land Rover lettering also feature.

The vehicle’s gloss black calipers are also said to be available for a more discreet appearance.

Interior

Inside the SV Autobiography shows that it has been carefully curated with a combination of trim finishes. This is said to include twin-stitched, perforated and quilted Windsor leather as well as a 20-way adjustable heated and cooled front seats with memory and massage functions as standard.

Its special touches are a unique sports steering wheel and a sophisticated knurled finish for the rotary gear selector and Touch Pro Duo infotainment circular control dials.

Calibrations for the AWD system, Active Rear Locking Differential, eight-speed transmission, steering and air suspension have all been honed and are all bespoke to the SVAutobiography Dynamic Edition, delivering a more-focused driving experience, the automaker says.

It explains that its engineers spent 63,900 hours fine-tuning the unique calibration to optimise the ride, handling and responsiveness.

It says, “They focused on delivering increased breath of capability, maintaining Land Rover’s renowned all-terrain expertise while providing new levels of dynamic control and performance.

“Aside from far-reaching electronic tuning, upgraded anti-roll bars reduce body roll during hard cornering and the revised set-up for the Continuously Variable Dampers works in combination with firmer air springs for the air suspension to deliver the ultimate balance of composure and comfort.”

The AWD system has also been up-rated too with a transfer box capable of withstanding the higher loads generated by the 5.0-litre supercharged V8 engine while the advanced Intelligent Driveline Dynamics system precisely and imperceptibly distributes engine torque to suit the conditions, it adds.

The automaker says the Velar SVAutobiography Dynamic Edition is available in six exterior colours – Firenze Red, Santorini Black, Eiger Grey, Fuji White, Indus Silver and the exceptionally finished and luxurious Satin Byron Blue with Narvik Black contrast roof features as standard.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]