Sealed marts: Auto marketers seek Buhari’s intervention
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Auto dealers under the aegis of National Association of Automobile Marketers have appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to prevail on the Nigeria Customs Service to unseal the premises of all the automobile dealers that were shut down.

The group also urged the President to advise the Customs against future unlawful sealing of car marts.

In a statement signed by the Secretary of NAAM, Mr Joseph Iriah, the group said none of its members was involved in the act of smuggling or in possession of smuggled vehicles.

It said the action of the Customs “was not sanctioned or backed by an order of the court. The Customs and Excise Management Act does not empower the Customs to seal off a business premises without first identifying contraband goods within the premises.”

It added that its members were genuine businessmen and corporate citizens lawfully engaged in the business of importation, sale and service of automobiles.

According to the group, any discrepancy in the documentation of any automobile imported through a Nigerian seaport should be placed at the doorsteps of the Customs licensed clearing agents and the NCS, not marketers.

“We are also conscious and well aware of our rights and should our premises continue to remain shut, we shall be constrained to enforce our rights and seek legal redress,” the statement read in part.

It explained that on September 28, 2019, men of the NCS carried out a wholesale clampdown on automobile dealerships nationwide sealed off some car marts.

The group said, “It is very important to note that before the seal off, no court order was obtained, neither was any notice issued to us. We did not receive any communication or correspondence from the Nigeria Customs Service informing us of the reasons behind the seal off.”

The group said it was in support of the NCS in its drive for increased revenue and determination to curb smuggling. It, however, stressed that due process should be followed.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]