Nigerian to head West Africa’s air crash probe group
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The International Civil Aviation Organisation has appointed a Nigerian and safety investigator with Accident Investigation Bureau, Mr Charles Erhueh, as Commissioner of the Banjul Accord Group Accident Investigation Agency.

The BAGAIA is coordinated by ICAO to assist its member states, comprising seven West African states – The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, Cape Verde and Sierra Leone – in the conduct of independent investigation of aircraft accidents and serious incidents in compliance with international standards.

With headquarters in Cape Verde, the agency also promotes the use of a common set of regulations compliant with the provisions of Annex 13 to the Chicago Convention by its member states.

They include regulations for the protection of safety data with the purpose of accident prevention.

Erhueh was said to have been picked after a recruitment process in which various applicants from within and outside the member states applied for the advertised position.

The Commissioner of AIB, Mr Akin Olateru, said Nigeria had been playing a leading role in the establishment of the sub-regional body as the only well established and properly equipped accident investigation body in the region.

He said, “We are pleased to release Erhueh, one of our well trained safety investigators, to serve at BAGAIA. At AIB Nigeria, we have been investing massively in human capacity development and it is our joy to share this with the aviation industry in Africa and the world. We are happy that he was picked out of several people that applied for the job.

“The setting up of BAGAIA is a plus for aviation safety in the West African sub-region and Nigeria has been playing a frontline role to see to its smooth take off. We shall do everything within our powers to support this body with a view to ensuring that it discharges its responsibility effectively.”

According to him, Erhueh, an indigene of Delta State, holds a Bachelor of Engineering degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Federal University of Technology, Minna; a certificate in Aircraft Engineering Special from the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology and a post-graduate certificate in Safety and Accident Investigation from the Cranfield University, England, United Kingdom.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]