Trade analyst bags award
Anna Okon

The Association of Nigerians in Nova Scotia, Canada, has awarded Kenneth Oguzie as the 2019 most distinguished Nigerian for his outstanding contributions to the economic growth and development of the nation.

Oguzie, the Nigerian born Canadian resident, got the award during the association’s annual ‘Nigerian Week’ to commemorate Nigeria’s independence celebration.

A statement by ANNS on Tuesday quoted its President, Mr Kunle Fakiyesi, as saying, “Mr Oguzie was recognised for his excellent and exceptional work as a human resources professional in advancing diversity and inclusion in public service and immense support for Nigerians and other immigrant communities in Nova Scotia through his previous work with the Immigrant Settlement Association of Nova Scotia.”

He was also recognised for his entrepreneurial success and contribution to economic growth as the director of African Canada Trade and Investment Venture.

According to the statement, Oguzie, who is a business consultant-cum-international trade analyst with experience in the areas of trade, investment, project financing and stakeholder management is the director/founder of Africa Canada Trade and Investment Venture.

In his comment, Oguzie said, “ACTIV supports businesses in Africa by seeking access and penetration into the Canada market as well as those looking to build new partnership and strategic alliances and strengthening trade relationship between Nigeria and Canada, with a focus on Nigeria and Ghana.

“This year’s event is very significant as the Halifax Regional Municipality signed an agreement to commemorate Nigeria’s independence celebration and raising of the Nigeria flag at the prestigious grand parade, Halifax, to recognise the socio-economic contributions of the Nigerian community to Nova Scotia.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]