RMB gets recognition for debt management
Feyisayo Popoola

Rand Merchant Bank Nigeria says it has won an award as the Debt Arranger of the year and the best merchant bank of the year.

The bank said in a statement on Monday that the awards were presented at the Business Day Awards.

The Chief Executive Officer/Regional Head, West Africa, RMB, Mr Michael Larbie, said the bank was proud of its growth and overall financial performance.

He said, “RMBN will continue to focus on its clients and partner with them to develop new products and solutions. We recently commenced our custody business; the addition of custody services to the product offering of the bank will further deliver end to end efficient trading and post trading experience to the bank’s existing and future clients.”

Larbie stated that the bank intended to continue to introduce a wider range of products to suit all its clients’ needs and through that, capture their mind share and become a go-to partner for advice, structured financing, lending and trade solutions.

He said the bank expected to consolidate on its client relationships and position itself as a trusted, hard-thinking and solutionist adviser and financier.

According to him, with over 15 years of transactional experience in Nigeria, RMBN’s strategic vision is to be the Nigerian Corporate and Investment Bank of choice by creating sustainable value, unique solutions and superior economic returns for its clients and stakeholders.

Larbie said, “RMBN’s approach to achieving this strategy has been to gradually entrench itself within a select universe of strategic clients with a view to achieving a measured but sustainable growth and build an enduring franchise.

“This strategy has enabled the bank build strong and growing relationships with key market leading corporates.”

He revealed that as part of the corporate and investment banking division of the FirstRand Group, the business strategy leveraged a market leading origination franchise to deliver an integrated value proposition to corporate and institutional clients across Africa.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]