NCAA suspends demolition of 7, 000 telecom masts
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority on Monday said the planned demolition of over 7, 000 telecom masts across the country had been suspended indefinitely.

The regulatory agency said the affected operators had responded to its directive on an Aviation Height Clearance approval for every tower installation in the country irrespective of the height and location.

In a response to our correspondent’s enquiry on the issue, the General Manager, Public Relations of the NCAA, Mr Sam Adurogboye, said, “There has been a positive response from almost everyone involved which warranted a review.”

The NCAA had in April threatened to demolish over 7,000 telecommunications masts belonging to Global System for Mobile Communications providers erected across the country.

It had stated that it was compelled to resort to the line of action due to the failure of the telecommunications providers to obtain the statutory Aviation Height Clearance.

In June, the NCAA said it would demolish a total of 8,805 masts belonging to some banks and financial institutions as well as telecoms operators who had discountenanced its regulatory requirements on the clearance to erect any high structure within navigable airspace in the country.

The regulator said the operators failed to act within the 30-day ultimatum handed down for compliance, adding that the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (NigCARS) Part 12.1.7.1.3.1 stipulates, “No person or organisation shall put up a structure (permanent or temporary) within the navigable airspace of Nigeria unless such a person or organisation is a holder of Aviation Height Clearance Certificate granted under this regulation.”

Among the affected operators, according to the NCAA, were Globacom Nigeria with 7,012 masts; United Bank of Africa, 439 masts; Guaranty Trust Bank Plc, 295 masts; Unity Bank, 217 masts; Sterling Bank, 159 masts; Union Bank with 92 masts; First City Monument Bank, 205 masts; Fidelity Bank, 83 masts; and Access Bank with 303 masts.

It was, however, gathered that no mast was demolished during or after the ultimatum.

Adurogboye stated on Monday that following the demolition threat, the agency had been getting responses from the affected organisations.

According to him, the directorate in charge is reviewing the operators’ responses and would come up with an advisory position for the management of the NCAA.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]