Happiness is highest level of success – Taiwo Coker
What schools did you attend?

For my secondary education, I attended Kings College, Victoria Island, Lagos. I then went on to the University of Lagos where I bagged a degree in Economics.

What has been the major highlight of your current job?

I believe I work in the best place one can work in Nigeria. Working as a global trade consultant at Deloitte Nigeria has been really interesting. There are days I literally want to take a long break, and other days, I can’t get myself to stop working. My highlights really would be every time I get to make a positive impact on a client’s business. What we do at Deloitte is centered on making impact that matters.

What are your duties as a global trade consultant?

I work as part of a team that provides strategic advisory to clients looking to optimise their customs and indirect tax footprints in West Africa. Basically, we solve problems relating to international trade (import and export).

What are the major challenges you face on the job and how do you surmount them?

My major challenge would be working with difficult deadlines and working towards exceeding expectations. Often times though, it just takes putting in extra effort and time, and one would be fine.

Apart from your main job, are you involved in any other activities?

I do volunteering work.

Where are some of the places you worked before joining your present company?

Prior to Deloitte, I worked with the Federal Road Safety Corps, and Concept Group, in that order.

What does success mean to you?

Success, for me, is happiness. I believe happiness (self-fulfilment) is the highest level of success you can attain.

What are your aspirations?

I aspire to be the best at what I do.

How do you plan to rise to the top of your career?

By the grace of God; dedication to and hard work.

What are some of the factors that have helped you overcome hard times?

The most important factor is resilience. I believe one only fails when one stops trying. So, for me, I never stop trying.

Does your job schedule allow you have a social life?

This is an interesting one; but it actually does. I think I probably have a better social life than most 9-to-5 workers.

What advice do you have for youths who want to go places in their chosen fields?

I would say to them – never give up on yourself. Then, be consistent and find a way to distinguish yourself from the crowd.

How do you like to relax?

I spend time on social media; hang out with friends, swim and travel. More often than not, I hang out with friends to relax.

How do you like to dress?

It depends on my mood really. My dressing ranges from suits to joggers. But most weekends, you are sure to catch me on traditional attire.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]