BPE canvasses privatisation of FG enterprises
Ihuoma Chiedozie, Abuja

The Bureau of Public Enterprises has canvassed the privatisation of Federal Government-owned enterprises to fund the proposed N10.33tn 2020 budget.

The budget has a total deficit of N2.28tn.

In a statement issued on Sunday, the BPE Director-General, Mr Alex Okoh, who called for the sale of the FG assets, decried a situation where state-owned enterprises placed an undue pressure on the lean public purse by way of subventions.

The BPE boss observed that a lot of valuable national assets were lying fallow and fast becoming liabilities for the government.

Okoh spoke at an interactive forum with the Senate Committee on Privatisation at the National Assembly on October 16, according to the statement.

He argued that there was no justification for the ‘ritual of yearly budget deficit’ with local and external borrowings when there were national assets that could be sold to fund the FG’s fiscal programmes.

“It is not good to keep borrowing on a yearly basis to finance budget deficit when a lot of very valuable national assets are lying fallow and moribund.

“Proceeds from outright privatisation or concession of the moribund assets should serve as veritable sources in funding the budget since the assets are more or less becoming national liabilities,” he said.

Okoh also said the BPE had so far contributed N135bn out of the N220bn it was expected to generate for the 2019 fiscal budget.

Okoh explained that the N135bn so far generated by the bureau was realised through the sale of the Afam Electricity Generation Company (Afam Power Plc and Afam Three Fast Power Limited) and the re-privatisation of the Yola Electricity Distribution Company.

The sale of 29 per cent Federal Government’s shares in the Geregu Power plant also contributed to the sum.

He expressed optimism that the BPE would meet its target for the 2020 fiscal budget.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]