Tackling poverty via reforms
Effective turnaround of Nigeria’s fiscal situation requires collective action by various stakeholders through well-coordinated and multi-faceted reforms, IFEANYI ONUBA reports

About a year after President Muhammadu Buhari took over office in 2015, the Nigerian economy plunged into recession in 2016 that was largely based on the crash in oil prices as well as falling oil production levels.

Just like other commodity-based economies, the recession, according to experts, was a ‘crude awakening’ as it revealed how vulnerable Nigeria economy is to oil.

Nigeria’s economy is highly dependent on the oil and gas sector. Although the sector accounts for just about 10 per cent of Gross Domestic Product, it represented 94 per cent of export earnings and 62 per cent of government revenues between 2011-2015.

More critically, the foreign exchange remittances from crude oil sales provide the liquidity for the importation of goods and services.

Foreign exchange reserves declined from $32bn in January 2015 to $25bn in November 2016. As of 2008, Nigeria’s external reserves were put at $53m.

As a result, the naira depreciated sharply, losing almost half of its value against the dollar. Similarly, foreign direct investment declined sharply from a peak of $8.9bn in 2011 to $3.1bn in 2015 and did not recover in 2016.

Amid the highly constrained fiscal space, the Nigerian economy has recorded nine consecutive quarters of the GDP growth. Annual growth increased from 0.82 per cent in 2017 to 1.93 per cent in 2018, and 2.02 per cent in the first half of 2019, while reserves had risen from $23bn in October 2016 to about $42.5bn by August 2019.

Similarly, the total value of investment inflow into Nigeria increased from $12bn in the first half year of 2018 to $14bn for the same period in 2019.

Despite this improvement in economic indicators after the recession, experts said the Nigerian economy was still characterised by structural challenges limiting its ability to sustain growth, create jobs and achieve real poverty reduction.

In addition to the high dependence on oil for economic activities, fiscal revenues and foreign exchange, the country still import raw materials and intermediate goods to sustain the manufacturing sector.

The Managing Director, Right Dev Limited, Mr Segun Showunmi, said the Federal Government had not taken adequate advantage of the potential of the Nigerian economy to turn the fortune of the country around despite various abundant opportunities.

He said instead of thinking outside the box to provide buffer in the right places for the largely suffering Nigerian masses, the government chose to play politics with the economy.

He spoke to our correspondent on the sidelines of the ongoing International Monetary Fund/World Bank Meetings, in Washington DC, United States, while reacting to Nigeria’s policy direction in relation to the new thinking of the Bretton Woods institutions.

He said, “For instance, the Nigerian government’s approach to growing the economy via taxes is too simplistic.

“It gives the impression that except for growing debts and increasing the burden on the people, we have not come to terms with the fact that you need to empower the citizens of the country to create the wealth you need for the nation.”

He also said,“I am of the view that the budget is too small and the numbers available for real development relative to recurrent expenditure, debt management is too low. The amount allocated to human capital development, which will fundamentally move the economy away from oil, is also too low.”

The Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, Ms Kristalina Georgieva, said that there was a need for the Federal Government to diversify the economy from the oil in order to reduce the level of economic vulnerabilities currently facing the country.

She said that the level of economic growth in the country was too slow to reduce its poverty rate.

She said the global body understood the importance of Nigeria to the economy of Africa, adding that this was why it had consistently called for a major improvement in the fiscal space particularly in relation to revenue, economic diversification and curbing corruption.

She said, “Nigeria matters to the whole of Africa. When Nigeria does well, Africa does well. What we see however is that economic recovery remains still too slow to reduce vulnerabilities and most importantly to reduce poverty in the country.”

She said the IMF had always recommended an increase in tax revenue to Gross Domestic Product to 15 per cent, adding that at this level, the government would be able to finance its programmes.

Nigeria’s tax revenue to GDP ratio currently hovers between seven and eight per cent.

In the area of economic diversification, Georgieva said, “We have been consistently recommending the country to diversify the economy because reliance on oil does not serve very well and that means to continue with structural reforms that would make that possible.”

On the fight against corruption, she said there was a need for a strong anti-corruption policy that would be unambiguous.

But the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed said the Federal Government will be implementing what it described as a “bold and audacious” reform to increase revenue to finance developmental programmes.

She said Nigeria when compared with its peers was lagging behind on most revenue streams including Value Added Tax and excise revenues.

In expanding the revenue base, Ahmed said VAT increase had been proposed, adding that other streams of revenue such as excise duties on carbonated drinks are being introduced.

Excise duty is the levy imposed on the sale of locally produced goods. If approved, some of the carbonated drinks that would attract excise duties are coke, Seven-up, La-casera, Mountain Dew, Pepsi and Fanta.

The Federal Government last year approved an increase in the excise duty on alcoholic beverages and tobacco effective June 2018 and it is expected to be phased over a three-year period from the year 2018 to 2020.

Based on the approval, in addition to the 20 per cent ad valorem rate, each cigarette stick will attract N1 (N20 per pack of 20 sticks) in 2018, N2 specific rate per stick (N40 per pack of 20 sticks) in 2019 and N2.90k specific rate per stick (N58 per pack of 20 sticks) in 2020.

Beer and Stout would attract N0.30k per centiliter in 2018 and N0.35k per Cl each in 2019 and 2020.

Wine will attract N1.25k per Cl in 2018 and N1.50k per Cl each in 2019 and 2020, while Spirits will attract N1.50k per Cl in 2018, N1.75k per Cl in 2019 and N2.00k per Cl in 2020

The minister said, “Our objective is to harness the existing revenue streams that we have by ensuring that enforcement is effective, to expand the tax base and identify new revenue streams that we can add to expand the revenue base.

“So in expanding the revenue base, we have proposed increase in VAT but there are also other revenue streams that we are looking at and some of them include introduction of excise duties on carbonated drinks but there is a process in doing these things.”

The minister said the country did not only have one of the lowest VAT rates in the world but weak collection efficiencies.

She added that there were a lot of incentives and deductions that further constraint the fiscal space and reduce the hope of stimulating growth of industries and reduce hardship for the poor and the vulnerable.

She said, “Why do we keep performing poorly? And what can we do differently this time to effectively turnaround without any relapse even in successive governments?”

Ahmed also said, “With numerous complex issues at hand, Nigeria must do things differently which requires robust, tough, well-coordinated and multi-faceted reforms.”

Speaking on some of the reforms that would be implemented to grow revenue, she said the Strategic Revenue Growth Initiatives launched last year would be reviewed

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]