With hard work, you can’t go wrong – Salami
Aderonke Salami, 26, CEO of Ounje Aduke, a catering outfit, talks to TOLUWALOPE KAREEM about life as a young entrepreneur

What is your educational background?

I have a Bachelor degree in Public Administration from Babcock University.

What stirred your interest towards food business?

I learnt about the business from my grandmother and aunt.

Tell us more about your business.

The business is called ‘Ounje Aduke’ in tribute to my late grandmother (her name was Aduke). I started the business in March 2017, specialising in amala (yam flour). We had our first amala event in May 2017. In December 2017, we were contacted by Blu Victoria Events to cater for the 50th birthday anniversary of Yakubu Dogara, the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, in Abuja. We were contracted to prepare amala and a few other meals. After that event, I had the courage to step into a new territory. Over the years, we have had several clients, including Union Bank headquarters (breakfast and lunch), Nollywood cast on locations, Wapic, Andela, among others. We have also worked with a lot of event planners in Lagos. In June 2018, I obtained a certificate from the Reddish Chronicles Culinary School. Other than amala being our signature dish, we make a variety of other foods. We also do home deliveries and cater for after parties.

What was your inspiration for starting the business?

My grandmother inspired me because she was passionate about cooking for a lot of people, and she loved to satisfy them. She did not care if she had eaten or not; all she cared about was making sure people around her were happy with her delicious delicacies. She’s late now and my first event was one week after she died.

How long have you been in business?

I have been in the business for two and half years.

What has been the major highlight so far?

My major highlight was catering for the 50th birthday of Dogara.

What are the major challenges you have faced over the years?

Trying to meet my client’s expectations is one challenge I have to constantly grapple with. But I thank God that we have been able to scale through.

Do you have any plan to seek paid employment?

No, I do not have such plan.

What do you think makes your outlet stand out from other amala joints out there?

The quality of the food we make, good ambiance and excellent customer service.

What is your recipe for success?

My recipe for success is combining hard work, consistency and positive thinking.

Where do you see yourself and your business in the next five years?

I know that the sky would be my limit.

How profitable is the business?

By God’s grace, it has been profitable. With hard work, one can’t go wrong.

What advice do you have for other entrepreneurs who are just starting out?

My advice is that you should always challenge yourself. Take risks, believe in yourself, have a vision, face your fears, take action and finally, learn from your mistakes.

How do you get your customers?

I get customers through social media advertising and referrals from friends, family and clients.

What do you do for leisure?

I watch movies and go to the spa.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]