Environmentalists warn against indiscriminate disposal of e-waste
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Environmentalists have warned against the indiscriminate disposal of electronic waste in the country, describing it as a potential health hazard.

They noted that e-waste which includes devices such as computers, tablets, phones, heating and cooling equipment could cause serious health and environmental problems when thrown into landfills, burned or treated in a substandard way.

The Lagos State Commissioner for Environment and Water Resources, Mr Tunji Bello, at the 2019 International E-waste Day, said there were no boundaries in the environment, hence the need to solve e-waste problems with sensitisation and advocacy.

“E-waste contains hazardous materials, which if not managed, can cause great health and environmental threats to our society. Sustainable recycling which minimises the dangers of e-waste disposal should be preached across all levels,” he said.

The commissioner, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Ronke Odeneye, said observing the e-waste day was in accordance with the third, sixth, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th and 15th Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations.

He stated that these goals involved good health and well-being, clean water and sanitation, sustainable cities and communities, responsible consumption and production, climate action, life below water and life on land.

Bello explained that in 2018, more than 50 organisations worldwide held conferences and workshops to mark the day.

To mark the 2019 edition, stakeholders such as the United Nations Information Centre, International Labour Organisation, United Nations Industrial Development Organisation and Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency held a sensitisation walk to educate people on the dangers of e-waste.

The General Manager of LASEPA, Adedolapo Fasawe, said many Nigerians still lacked knowledge about e-waste and its dangers.

Fasawe said LASEPA, as the agency responsible for setting standards to ensure that e-waste products were disposed safely in the state, had been working to safeguard environmental quality consistent with the social and economic needs of the state.

According to her, the aim is to protect health, welfare, property and quality of life of residents.

“The issue of e-waste is an awakening that we all need to take out there. We need to ensure that Nigeria is not made a dumping ground for e-waste and other related items,” she said.

Fasawe said there was a need to educate the informal sector on proper e-waste management, adding that residents should be encouraged to participate in all phases of e-waste management and disposal.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]