Stakeholders, Senate committee meet over housing bills reform
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Stakeholders including the Real Estate Developers Association, town planners, mortgage executives and the promoters of Abuja International Housing Show have met with the Senate Committee on Housing over the enactment and reform of outstanding housing bills in the National Assembly.

The stakeholders said it was a deliberate attempt to reposition Nigeria’s housing sector to deliver affordable mass housing.

The delegation met with the Chairman, Senate Committee on Housing, Senator Sam Egwu, and urged him to see to the review of the bills.

Among the issues the stakeholders clamoured for are the foreclosure bill; review of Land Use Act of 1978; the Federal Government Housing Loans Board Bill; the National Housing Fund Scheme Act 1992; review of Mortgage Banks Act 1989 (subsumed in BOFIA); Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Bill 2018; and review of Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria Act 1993.

Others are the review of the Trustee Investment Act 1962; the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund Act 1993; Insurance Act 2002; Investment and Security Act 1999; Federal Housing Authority Act 1990; climate change adaptation policy; policy creating the National Council on Housing for sector regulation; securitisation bill and other affordable housing policies.

The Chief Executive Officer and Convener of AIHS, Mr Festus Adebayo, in a statement issued at the end of the meeting, said Egwu expressed the desire to ensure that all important bills that would aid development and investment in the real estate sector were successfully passed into law or reviewed where necessary.

For the foreclosure law, Adebayo said anyone interested in investing in the mortgage sector would want to know about the existence of the law.

He explained that the urgent passage of the outstanding bills would facilitate rapid investment in the real estate sector and drive the economy.

Adebayo also encouraged partnership with critical bodies such as the Mortgage Bankers Association of Nigeria and the Central Bank of Nigeria to see that these critical bills were passed by the National Assembly.

According to him, funding has remained one of the most critical challenges for Nigeria’s housing sector.

He said the senators should consider approaches that would ease access to funding low-income housing in the country.

“Whether in terms of partnerships, policy developments or securing alternative finance models, if access to funding could be guaranteed, a lot could be achieved in record time in the sector,” he added.

According to him, mortgages and projects are regularly stalled by limited access to cheap funding.

“There is also the need to do more in terms of creating enabling policies around land title documentations, with government playing a larger role in assisting investors and supporting local building industries and materials,” he said.

Egwu was quoted to have said the committee would look into the issues raised as a way of repositioning the housing sector.

He said that it would be necessary for the delegation to meet other members of the committee in order to facilitate more interaction and cooperation.

Egwu said he believed it would enable the process that would lead to a housing sector that would not only create housing, but employment and improved contributions to the country’s Gross Domestic Product.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]