Lagos-Ibadan Expressway: Magboro-Punch axis diversion begins Monday
Jesusegun Alagbe

The Ogun State Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps has issued a travel advisory with respect to the ongoing road rehabilitation of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway.

The command said the contractors handling the project, Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, had notified that the rehabilitation work within the Magboro-PUNCH axis of the road (1.3km) would commence on October 21, 2019, and end on January 31, 2020.

The FRSC said as a result of this, there would be a temporary diversion of the Lagos-bound traffic to the Sagamu-bound carriageway from Magboro to PUNCH.

In a statement on Friday signed by the Ogun FRSC Public Education Officer, Florence Okpe, on behalf of the state Sector Commander, Clement Oladele, the corps urged motorists to cooperate with it and other agencies in the control of traffic at the affected axis during the period.

The statement said, “This temporary diversion of traffic would transfer the inbound Lagos traffic to the same carriageway conveying traffic outward Lagos, thereby making both the traffic inward and outward Lagos accommodated on the same section of the expressway within the 1.3km stretch of the road from Magoro to PUNCH.

“Accordingly, motorists are to plan their trips by allowing more time to their travel time, in view of the construction work that would narrow the carriageway, which may affect motorisation.”

Additionally, the corps advised motorists to drive within the maximum speed limit of 50km per hour, as prescribed by the National Road Traffic Regulations 2012.

The corps warned that driving at maximum speed at construction zones could cause avoidable accidents.

“Motorists are also enjoined to observe lane discipline and avoid driving against traffic, as violators risk impoundment of their vehicles and liable to payment of N50,000 as fine. Motorists observing traffic emergencies can contact the FRSC toll-free number 122,” the statement added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]