Auto business slowly returns, Naja to celebrate players
Rasheed Bisiriyu

Activities in the industry is gradually picking up after a drab period resulting from poor sales due to high cost of new vehicles and low purchasing power of people.

Many fleet-buying industries who had to cut operating costs and individual unit buyers either reduced drastically the number or halted new purchases completely.

But there are indications that some auto firms are beginning to make new sales and receiving fresh vehicle orders from corporate organisations and individual buyers.

Players in the Nigerian automotive industry are thus expected to end the year on a high as they get set for 2019 edition of auto award event slated for December 12 in Lagos.

The organisers of the Naja award event are enthusiastic about this. They said in a statement that the 2019 edition of the programme had been put together to recognise corporate stakeholders organisations and other automotive products.

They said the event would also celebrate operators in the ancillary products such as tyre brands, lubricants and individuals that are adjudged to have relatively stood out among other competitors in their respective segments in the country’s auto industry within the year.

The statement by the group gave one of the highpoints of the award as in the car-of-the-year category.

“Other segments of awards are luxury car of the year, heavy duty truck of the year, auto plant of the year, CEO of the year, Auto personality of the year and CSR company of the year, pick-up of the year, showroom of the year and many others.

“New additions to the award segments this year are the super luxury car of the year, online auto marketing platform of the year and motorbike taxi service of the year.

The Chairman of NAJA, Mike Ochonma, was quoted as saying this year’s edition, just like the previous events, would be honouring outstanding auto brands and models that had achieved astonishing success in the last one year.

He also stated some award categories in the past editions might be dropped in this award due to dynamic nature of the market and present situation of Nigeria’s automotive industry.

The event, he added, would provide the opportunity for organisations to gain competitive advantage by having their projects, initiatives, contributions, products and services recognised.

Ochonma said it would also offer the ultimate platform for improving brand awareness.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]