Power sector needs right policy framework —Chukwuma
In this interview with ANNA OKON, the Vice-Chairman, Impact Investors Foundation and Director for West Africa, Ford Foundation, Innocent Chukwuma, speaks about blending capital with other funds to support start-ups, among others

Please explain the concept of blending capital?

Blended capital is the mix of government or non-profit grants, equity investments, and bank loans put into a startup.

The salient point is how the capital is sequenced: Foundations, governments, and NGOs go in first and grant non-equity taking, non-debt capital to a social entrepreneur with an idea.

This gets the founder out of the garage and gives him or her the ability to hire a small team, build a product, and attract initial customers.

This de-risks the investment for the next stage, but adds a lot of impact, accomplishing the foundation’s goal.

What are the opportunities that abound in blending capital?

The opportunities are huge; there is about $6tn of investment opportunities that are not being done today, because they are just new to us in different ways and have not been attempted before.

There are opportunities in agriculture, housing, small-scale business lending and education. There are so many challenging spaces in the business world today which includes financing and lending out resources to people.

We identify the solutions that can be tailored to solve these problems and make them affordable by creating affordable capital for upcoming business owners. They are the most impactful ways to invest in blending capital.

What are the templates to consider before investing in blending capital?

It takes 10 to 15 years to build this template. The template is all about partnership and taking public resources to harness and compete with the available capital and also bringing in private capital to command those resources and move them into communities.

How does IIF come in?

Impact Investors Foundation is new in Nigeria. This is the second convening and it is really about bringing public, private partnership, the three P’s, together to create more social investment opportunities in the Nigerian community.

From the analysis of impact distribution Africa, about 88 per cent went to the financial industry, are there no other key sectors that are more impactful for inclusive growth?

There are other opportunities in education, sustainable agriculture, housing, Information and Communication Technology and health. We need to support the public with financial resources for inclusive growth. We need to build up all other sectors too to enable us to create investment opportunities.

What are the investment challenges facing impact investors across a broad spectrum of sectors in Nigeria?

Many factors are responsible for this including shallow financial markets for listed firms while a number of firms are not even listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange.

Another challenge, according to Global Impact Investing Network, is inadequate policy and regulatory environment.

The impact investment ecosystem in Africa is desirous of stable and enabling regulatory policy environment.

This concerns the need to have a stable exchange rate regime and improve the ease of doing business for local businesses to thrive.

More so, there is a poor linkage between social enterprises, investors and innovation networks.

This perennial problem persists because most of the social enterprises do not belong to professional bodies. This creates an Herculean task for investors trying to find investible enterprises.

What benchmarking procedures have you put in place for the return on investment?

Impact investment inflow into Africa is increasing and gaining momentum. In the last few years, several billions of dollars on impact investment have come into the African continent, particularly, sub-Saharan African countries.

Impact investment would bolster public spending and development while also ensuring return on investment.

It requires pooling together excess funds from the private sector and skills, which will strengthen African countries’ vulnerability to external shocks by providing solution that would address environmental and socio-economic needs.

What should Nigerian companies do to attract more impact investments?

For the Nigerian companies to attract a more desired level of impact investments, their promoters should ensure that they must have long-term objectives that are sustainable.

Another hurdle firms in Nigeria must overcome to get the needed impact investment is to be able to state clearly the problems and challenges they are facing. What exactly is the focus of your investment? Which problem are you trying to solve? The ability to pitch the project in clear terms will go a long way to attract impact investors in the appropriate areas.

What are the macro development opportunities of impact investing in the Nigerian space?

Basically, impact investors are driven by two major criteria, which are to generate financial return on the investment within a given period of time and to realise the stated impact objectives in its field of operations.

Today, impact investing has developed to become one of the most exciting social movements following the growing needs for investment to increase prosperity. The United Nations, on its part, has continued to canvass around the world for a Sustainable Development Goal which requires investment in the region.

One of such 17 goal initiatives is to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger around the world including Nigeria. In Nigeria, impact investors seem to have concentrated on financial services, agriculture, health, housing, and ICT.

Other sectors that also attract their attention include manufacturing, infrastructure, education, tourism and real estate.

How are you collaborating with other stakeholders for blending finance and social investment in Nigeria?

The philanthropic capital we have is not enough to push the social investment capital to solve the social problems in Nigeria and the wider West African sub-region.

The question that keeps me awake at night is where are we going to get the additional funds to put on investment for social impact?

Hence the convening of blending finance, which is how do we bring together other stakeholders including the development finance commission, government and more importantly private capital to invest in social impact.

To achieve SDG 4 alone, which has to do with quality and affordable education, we need $34bn every year to invest in Nigeria till 2030.

What is Nigeria’s annual budget? The 2018 budget that was publicly analysed is just $29.9bn and education accounts for just seven per cent of the budget which is not enough.

If we put the whole federal budget on education, it won’t be enough. So that is why, it is important to bring all the actors here, especially the private sectors to invest in all the SDG, especially the critical ones on education and reducing gender inequality and all of that.

Can blending finance funding be streamlined to the power sector in Nigeria to solve the intractable problems of power supply in the country so that investors could come on board?

In solving the power problem in Nigeria, we need to look at it from a variety of options. We need to look at renewable energy. We need to look at wind energy and power and all of that and we have a lot of actors in that space who are here. So all we need is for government to continue to improve the operating environment, continue to improve on the policy framework.

The government needs to continue to make it attractive enough for a variety of actors in power sector to invest because government alone cannot do it.

Unless the right policy framework is put in place, unless the right guarantee, unless the right concessionary rate which is what blending finance addresses, we would not solve the power problems.

We need to look beyond what Power Holding Company of Nigeria and all the Discos are doing by looking at alternative power sources and the alternative energy sources.

We need to harness the energy from the sun to generate power.

What if the private sector decides to come in and take undue advantage of these funds, what would be the social impact?

During the convening, we agreed that we need to structure and identify the areas we can actually solve with blended finance.

It is not every investment we should solve with blended finance so that we don’t create distortions in the market.

There are already proven areas that don’t need blended finance but the new areas of alternative energy, renewable energy, education, housing, agriculture, healthcare need to be structured with blended finance.

The critical questions we ask ourselves is where best can we use blended finance? In areas where the markets have been proven, where the measurement is clear and where the investors are aware of them, we don’t need blended finance.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]