Jaguar thrills fun seekers with I-Pace Race eTaxi
Rasheed Bisiriyu

Luxury auto manufacturer, Jaguar, may have taken the auto world by surprise as it announces the introduction of the first all-electric Jaguar I-Pace Race eTaxi.

The Race eTAXI service has just been launched at the legendary Nürburgring Nordschleife, Germany with its I-Pace performance sport utility vehicle.

A statement obtained from the automaker via email and signed the Public Relations and Sponsorship Specialist, Jaguar Land Rover South Africa and sub-Sahara Africa, Tina Pienaar-Smit, says professional drivers will take passengers around the world’s most famous and demanding circuit in the all-wheel-drive zero-emissions model.

The All-electric I-Pace is said to have been declared the 2019 World car of the year, European car of the year and German car of the year.

The vehicle’s state-of-the-art 90kWh lithium-ion battery is said to deliver 0-100km/h in 4.8sec with range of up to 470km.

Jaguar says it is the first manufacturer to offer customers an all-electric Race eTAXI experience around the epic Nürburgring Nordschleife.

It says, “Thrill-seekers and fans of electric vehicles can now experience the sports car performance of the I-Pace at the most demanding race circuit in the world with a professional driver behind the wheel.

“The zero-emissions model can accelerate from 0-100km/h in 4.8 seconds thanks to its state-of-the-art 90kWh lithium-ion battery, which develops 294kW and 696Nm of torque.”

According to Jaguar, the car’s performance SUV will feel at home in all weathers around the 20.8km, 73-corner Nordschleife, thanks to its dynamic handling and all-wheel drive; the zero-emissions I-Pace – 2019 World Green Car of the Year – will be able to cope with any conditions the circuit known as the ‘Green Hell’ has to offer.

It says the introduction of the first all-electric Race eTAXI is another step in the automaker’s electrification strategy as it enables more people to experience Jaguar’s I-Pace first-hand, which it describes as award-winning.

“Jaguar is no stranger to electric race cars, with the Panasonic Jaguar Racing team preparing for a fourth season in Formula E. Jaguar has also completed its inaugural season of the Jaguar I-Pace eTROPHY, the first all-electric single-make competition of its kind in the world, which features a grid of close-to-production I-Pace racers,” it states.

Reeling out some of the awards of the model, Jaguar says since its launch in 2018, the I-Pace has won multiple awards including 2019 World Car of the Year, European Car of the Year and German Car of the Year.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]