Disco introduces inter-connected minigrid to boost power supply
Okechukwu Nnodim

The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company has introduced an interconnected minigrid project that will guarantee 24-hour power supply to electricity users.

An interconnected minigrid is a power system that receives electricity from both the national grid and an off-grid source for onward power supply to users.

The Managing Director, AEDC, Ernest Mupwaya, on behalf of the Disco, signed a tripartite agreement with the Wuse Market Association and Green Village Electricity company for the supply of uninterrupted power to over 2,000 customers of the market.

Mupwaya explained that the initiative would support the delivery of energy to power users by augmenting grid supply, as well as reduce AEDC’s losses in clustered underserved areas such as plazas, markets, estates, etc.

He said the interconnected minigrid project would augment grid electricity through power supplied from solar energy backed with high quality batteries from Tesla.

“This partnership will help us supply electricity to areas where we have underserved customers,” Mupwaya stated.

He noted that when the interconnected minigrid is fully deployed, the Wuse market in Abuja would be the first generator-free market in Nigeria.

The AEDC boss explained that his firm partnered the Rural Electrification Agency of the Federal Government to conduct an energy audit of the market.

Mupwaya said, “Following the completion of the audit, the interconnected minigrid model is currently being developed as a pilot with a developer, Green Village Electricity Projects Limited.

“A total of 341 other sites and several clusters have been profiled for a scale up of deployments. The solution will be developed through three hybrid PV solar systems of 450kWp, 350kWp and 200kWp to serve three distinct segments of the market.”

He further explained that the interconnected minigrid project was aimed at providing reliable and affordable one megawatts peak of hybrid power solution with 0.73MWhrs of lithium ion storage to small and medium enterprises in the Wuse market.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]