Total to build plastics recycling plant in Nigeria
’Femi Asu

Total Group has said it will build a plastics recycling plant in Nigeria to convert waste to useful products as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility agenda.

The oil major said it would set up a sustainable pilot plant to recycle 800 tons of polyethylene and polypropylene yearly from dumpsite in the country as a CSR project.

The Executive General Manager, CSR, Total Upstream Companies in Nigeria, Mr Vincent Nnadi, said, “Feedstock will be supplied by a network of existing dealers and the 600 tons per year output will be sold to plastic converters for production of commodity products like bags and buckets.”

He said the pilot project would be started in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, adding that Lagos Lagoon clean-up project was being considered.

Total is working with the United Nations Institute for Training and Research as a partner, according to him.

“Because we are a stakeholder in our host communities, Total Foundation has made a commitment to enhancing their development, with a special focus on youth.”

He said it had invested over $10bn in the last five years, describing itself as a strategic and reliable partner.

“We believe in contributing to the economic and social development of stakeholders. Over 50,000 students have benefited from our scholarship scheme at all levels since inception.”

Nnadi said over 1,000 youths had been trained annually on various skills including welding and fabrication, scaffolding, Information and communications technology, and fashion designing.

The company reiterated its commitment to the provision of basic infrastructure in communities.

“Total’s strategy is to bring healthcare nearer to the people. We contribute to buildings, renovations and equipment for community hospitals, donate ambulances and medications, sponsor free community healthcare programmes and campaign against AIDS locally.”

He said about 50,000 farmers had benefited from agriculture development scheme in the supply of improved seedlings and training.

“Micro-credit schemes sponsored by the company are part of our capacity building Programmes. Our target is to support graduates of our skills acquisition programme to establish small and medium enterprises through further training, formation of cooperatives and support with micro credits,” Nnadi added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]