Trains: Experts call for good maintenance
As the Federal Government takes delivery of some trains built by the Chinese firm, CRCC, experts have called on the government to imbibe the culture of good maintenance for the trains to last.

The Ministry of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, had on Thursday announced taking delivery of some trains in China to service the Abuja-Kaduna and Lagos-Ibadan rail lines.

He said the trains included two-motored cars and four locomotive trains, which would soon arrive in Nigeria.

“Work is ongoing on the second batch of trains. The plan is to connect and unite the entire country by rail,” he said.

Meanwhile, a policy analyst and social commentator in Abuja, Dr Kolawole Azeez, urged the Federal Government to ensure that the trains were well maintained for them to last and ease the stress of transportation for residents.

He lamented that similar infrastructure had been poorly maintained in the past in the country, drawing reference to a recent revelation by Saturday PUNCH how some electric cars and super-bikes were made to rot away at the National Assembly complex due to poor management.

Azeez said, “It is not okay for us to spend a lot of resources on infrastructure only to abandon them later due to poor management. Now that we are talking about trains, I hope in the next five or 10 years, we wouldn’t be asking, ‘Where are the trains?’

“The government should imbibe the culture of good maintenance as the trains arrive in the country. We shouldn’t allow them to work for a few months and then abandon them.”

Another social commentator and mechanical engineer based in Lagos, Mr Michael Alex, asked the Federal Government to properly maintain the trains.

He said the time of buying infrastructural equipment and make them rot away should stop.

”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]om