‘Impose long-term ban on food imports’
Friday Olokor, Abuja

A former governor of Nasarawa State and Chairman, Senate Committee on Agriculture, Abdullahi Adamu, has called on the Federal Government to impose a long-term ban on the importation of food items that can be sufficiently produced locally by Nigerian farmers.

He said this during the opening ceremony of the 12th National Agricultural Show held at Auta Balefi, Nasarawa State.

He said, “Food security cannot be attained in one day. It is not magic. It is a process driven by all the stakeholders. Let no one think that food imports would end tomorrow. But if we are determined to end them, they eventually would be replaced by our local food production.”

While accusing both the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank of denying Nigeria agricultural subsidy, he also called on Nigerian farmers to take full advantage of the present closure of borders to enhance the production of staple food in order to fill the vacuum of demands from the growing population.

“To the international financial and multi-lateral bodies that are stridently opposed to the provision of subsidies for the Nigerian farmer, I say to you – what is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander,” he added.

Adamu who is also Chairman, National Agricultural Foundation, spoke on the topic, ‘Let’s put our shoulders to the plough’, a copy of which was obtained by our correspondent in Abuja.

The senator said government should attend to some of the grey areas which, he described as “sustainable pillars of the current initiatives.”

He said the protection of local farmers against foreign invaders must rank high on the government’s list of priorities because it would amount to sabotage if it could not curb the Nigerians appetite for imported food items.

Adamu added, “Arising from the above, our second point is a call on government to review the mandate of the Nigeria Agriculture Quarantine Service to cater to both the import and export of agricultural produce. A situation where emphasis is placed only on the import of produce is not encouraging to our local farmers who might be interested in exporting their produce.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]