NECA okays FG, labour agreement on minimum wage
Anna Okon

The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association has commended the Federal Government and the organised labour for allowing social dialogue to hold sway in the minimum wage negotiations.

The Federal Government and organised Labour on the Friday concluded negotiation on the percentage increase on the consequential adjustment in workers’ salaries in the public sector.

The successful negotiation led to labour calling off the threatened strike earlier scheduled for October 16.

Speaking in Osogbo, Osun State, the Director-General of NECA, Mr Timothy Olawale, said the fact that the Federal Government and the organised labour embraced social dialogue in resolving the issue of consequential adjustment in the public sector, rather than labour embarking on a strike action, was commendable.

He stressed that it was a veritable learning point for the industrial relations system and good precedent to build upon in future.

He urged the government to abide by its agreement reached – pointing to the fact that the new national minimum wage was signed into law in April 2019 by President Muhammadu Buhari.

He stated that the implementation of the consequential adjustment would definitely improve the purchasing power of Nigerian workers.

He also called on organised labour to roll up its sleeves for improved productivity, as the nation needed all hands to be on deck to come out of the present economic challenges.

He said, “The time is ripe to ensure and align reward system with productivity in the workplace, and this should be applicable in both the private and public sectors in the country.”

Olawale urged Nigerians to note that the national minimum wage mechanism was not for a general salary review but a process to fix an amount below which no employer should pay its least paid workers.

According to NECA, there are mechanisms in the private sector, which allow for salary review on periodic basis and this has stabilised the sector, as employers in the private sector are not paying below the N30,000 national minimum wage.

Olawale called on all parties in industrial relations process to maximise the provisions of the law, especially the conflict resolution machineries rather than industrial actions.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]