FAAN, NERC, others failed to remit operating surplus – FRC
Ihuoma Chiedozie, Abuja

The Fiscal Responsibility Commission has revealed that some agencies of the Federal Government have not been remitting their operational surpluses into the Consolidated Revenue Fund.

The FRC, in a statement by the acting Head, Strategic Communication Directorate, Mr Bede Anyanwu, listed the defaulting agencies as the Nigerian Tourism Development Commission, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, National Electricity Regulatory Commission and National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency.

The statement quoted the acting Chairman of the FRC, Victor Muruako, as stating that the agencies had not been submitting their annual audited accounts, receipts of their remittances, budgets and Medium Term Expenditure Framework, thereby hampering prompt and accurate determination of operating surplus liabilities.

Muruako tasked the agencies on the need for prompt remittance of operating surplus into the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federal Government.

The statement explained that Muruako convened a stakeholders’ meeting with the managements of the agencies at the FRC’s headquarters in Abuja.

“Muruako pointed out that the independent revenue drive of the Federal Government was not encouraging and the NTDC, FAAN, NERC and NOSDRA had not been complying fully with the provisions of sections 21, 22 and 23 of Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2007,” the statement said.

The agencies reportedly sent representatives to the stakeholders’ meeting.

However, Muruako implored the representatives to inform their respective chief executives that the commission would appreciate their presence to ensure a more robust discussion on ways to improve compliance.

The Head of Monitoring and Evaluation at the commission, Alhaji Ola Tijani, pointed out that there must be proof of prudence, accountability and transparency in the financial reporting in order to be in line with the FRA Act, 2007.

“Compliance entails these agencies prepare and publish their audited financial statements not later than 90 days after the financial year and operating surplus thereafter determined in line of publishing annual financial statement with the operating surplus calculating template within 30 days,” he said.

Tijani emphasised that without audited financial statement, there was no way the commission could determine appropriate liabilities.

“There is therefore the need for agencies to reposition their operations to comply with the provisions of the Act,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]