Toyota thrills Abuja fans with elegant Rush, Hilux
Rasheed Bisiriyu

Toyota Nigeria Limited literally lit up the 2019 edition of Abuja motor show as it hit the fair ground with its dashing products across different segments including its latest small SUV, the Rush, and the long reigning pickup, Hilux.

The leading auto firm says it is impressed with its performance at the event as it notes that the imposing and beautifully decorated Toyota stand caught the eye of every visitor to the fair.

“They (visitors) stopped at the stand to touch and feel the array of Toyota vehicles on display,” said the Corporate Affairs Manager of Toyota Nigeria Limited, Mrs Bukola Ogunnusi.

She confirmed that the Rush and the Hilux particularly caught the attention of the people at the fair as they called to feel the vehicles and made enquiries about them.

She described the Rush as “the latest wonder on the wheels in the Toyota range”, adding that the vehicle and Hilux were really beauties to behold.

Launched in Nigeria early in the year, the Rush targeting more safety-conscious families is a small sport utility vehicle considered as a masterpiece on account of its special features and high level of performance.

Its impressive features such as projector headlamps, dual-tone grille and LED taillights; bold and high quality interior as well as attractive fuel economy are presented as the vehicle’s unique selling points.

Others are long cabin and robust body to enhance dynamic styling, with spacious headroom and legroom, allowing occupants to take long journeys at ease.

With its magnificent interior beauty and comfort, the Rush is said to target those that love the comfort and status of an SUV with excellent drive and affordable price.

It was a night of glitz and glamour as the full spec leather seat Hilux in glowing white and black colour and the latest wonder on wheels in the Toyota range, the RUSH, were beauties to behold.

The Hilux, according to the TNL, is a testimony to the Toyota’s outstanding record of building reliable and rugged pickups.

Giving some specific features about the vehicle on its website, Toyota Nigeria stated, “The Hilux design reflects the rugged and robust nature of the vehicle’s performance. High quality materials are used to ensure a premium look and feel.”

It also noted the Hilux’s quality had been woven into its core, even in parts you might not see, adding, “The use of high tensile steel sheeting for the body contributes to the excellent rigidity and light weight.

“The strategic placement of vibration damping and noise insulating materials, including the floor and engine compartment, helps to create quietness inside the cabin.”

Other Toyota vehicles on display at the Abuja fair were given as Land Cruiser Prado, Hiace, Camry, Yaris, Avensis, LC70, Corolla and among others.

Toyota also featured in the Night of Thursday event tagged ‘Special night with the MD’. It described it as a night to remember as invited VIPs visited the Toyota stand with Managing Director of Toyota Nigeria, Mr Kunle Ade.Ojo, hosting captains of industries, government and corporate organizations.

Ade.Ojo personally showed his guests the features of the Toyota vehicles, where and how the vehicles could be deployed and why each one was really value for money.

“It was a rewarding and fun night for all visitors and Toyota alike. Visitors went home with branded Toyota gifts,” said Ogunnusi.

She added that customers to the Toyota stand enjoyed attractive fair prices while the fair lasted and some of them took the advantage of the fair price.

According to her, representatives of Toyota Japan visited the Toyota stand and were quite pleased with the presentation and quality of display put up by Toyota at the fair.

She said, “Toyota exhibition stand at the fair stood out like a million stars in its size, decor and welcoming ambiance. Indeed, Toyota lived up to its status as first among equals with superior quality.

“Dealers were present at the stand throughout the fair to attend to customers and prospects that visited the stand.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]