Gridlock: Lawmaker cautions against wrong-way driving
The Lawmaker representing Oshodi-Isolo Federal Constituency II of Lagos State at the House of Representative, Ganiyu Johnson, has urged motorists to limit the rate at which they travel to reduce gridlock on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway and Lagos metropolis.

He said this while addressing journalists on the sidelines of a food distribution programme organised for over 500 residents in Ejigbo.

Johnson also advised motorists against driving on the wrong side of traffic, popularly called one way, or taking unauthorised roads to reduce accidents.

He said, “There will be a lot of movement as December is approaching. People will be going about shopping and transporting goods, which may lead to gridlock on our roads.

“So, I will advise people that if they don’t have business to do, please don’t go out in order to free up the road. Let us limit our activities to whatever we have to do and we should be mindful that there a lot of accident at this period.”

He assured Lagos residents that roads in the state would be fixed; adding that the raining season affected the pace of works on the roads.

He said, “Most of our roads are bad now. They are full of potholes. The rainy season has not also been helping. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has also made serious interventions that should easy traffic in Lagos. But this cannot happen overnight.

“Climate change has scattered the whole system. Normally, this time we should be experiencing good weather to work on roads but it is not happening. But where they are working, residents should please obey the road signs. It will only slow you down for a while; it is in your own interest. When the road has been completed, it will benefit us all.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]