Senate summons NNPC GMD over pipeline vandalism
Sunday Aborisade and Okechukwu Nnodim

The Senate on Tuesday summoned the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mr Mele Kyari, to appear before its Committee on Petroleum Resources, over the spate of pipeline vandalism across the country.

The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, stated this after the Chairman of an ad hoc committee on the explosion that rocked the NNPC pipelines in Rivers and Lagos states recently, Senator Ibrahim Gobir, presented his report.

This came as the NNPC GMD also charged the board of directors and management of the NNPC Retail Limited to deliver unadulterated petroleum products to Nigerians in its filling stations nationwide.

The Senate report had indicted unnamed officials of the NNPC, Nigerian Pipeline and Storage Company and those of the firm securing the facilities of allegedly conniving with vandals to sabotage the nation’s economy.

It specifically alleged that some of their officials were aware of the Komkom pipeline leakage in Rivers State, two days before the explosion but delayed in taking necessary actions.

Lawan wondered why officials of government could be conniving with criminals involved in vandalising oil pipelines.

He said those involved should be sanctioned, arrested and prosecuted after a thorough investigation.

He directed the Senate Committee on Petroleum (downstream) to invite the NNPC with a view to ensuring a review of security measures for pipelines in parts of the country.

He also said the National Assembly would amend the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency Act to prevent the activities of pipeline vandals leading to explosions and deaths.

Lawan said, “Our Committee on Petroleum (downstream) should invite the NNPC with a view to knowing what they have been doing over the years to secure the pipelines; what measures are in place and whether there is a need to review these agreements.

“This is a multi-billion dollar industry. People consciously do these things; it’s not an accident. Those who are caught in the fire or who come to scavenge are the ones who end up losing their lives. This is not acceptable.

“There must be sanctions; somebody will have to pay the price and of course, after these resolutions are sent to the executive, our committee must follow it up.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]