FG to rejig ease of doing business strategies
Samuel Awoyinfa

The Federal Government says it has unveiled a regional tour to rejig its ease of doing business strategies.

The Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council said the subnational tour which would take it to the six geopolitical zones of the country was aimed at highlighting key economic reforms as it affected businesses in the country.

The programme, themed, ‘Lituation’, would offer entrepreneurs and other industry stakeholders an opportunity to collaborate more effectively.

According to a statement on Thursday, the Special Adviser to the President on Ease of Doing Business, Dr Jumoke Oduwole, said the exercise would focus on the economic reforms engineered by the council since July 2016.

Oduwole added that the Council, over the years, through the Enabling Business Environment Secretariat, had successfully implemented more than 140 reforms, all geared towards making doing business easier for Micro, Medium and Small Enterprises, which made up over 90 per cent of registered businesses in Nigeria, contributing close to 50 per cent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product.,

She said, “This programme, for us, presents itself as a need to deliver measurable results and impact in the improvement of regulatory, bureaucratic and legislative environments for businesses operating in Nigeria, particularly Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises, so that they not only thrive, but are able to compete favourably with its counterparts globally.

“Nigeria has moved up 24 unprecedented places on the World Bank’s Doing Business Index Rankings since PEBEC began reforms in 2017, an attestation to the improved business environment.”

She said PEBEC was set to continue this celebration of enterprise through the Listen, Implement and Track subnational tour, as it continued to deliver on its mandate of removing all bureaucratic constraints and bottlenecks to doing business.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]