Salaries: Workers shut down Kaduna Disco’s office
Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna

Workers of the Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company have vowed to continue to protest the nonpayment of their outstanding salaries and non-remittance of deducted pensions to their Pension Fund Administrations until their demands are met.

The PUNCH gathered that the meeting between the management and the union officials to resolve the crisis failed.

On Wednesday, as the protest entered the second, the workers led by officials of the National Union of Electricity Employees still barricaded the main entrance to the corporate head office of the company in state capital.

Most of the workers were seen in groups when our correspondent visited the office.

“We have over two-year deductions of pensions that the company has not been remitting to the PFAs. We have issue of medical care and proper placement. For over five years, nobody in the company can tell you their actual grade level.

“We have been patient enough. We cannot be slaves in our country. That is why we are saying they must give us our salary in full,”, the Deputy President for North, NUEE, Sikamta Ali, said.

A worker who spoke with our correspondent on condition of anonymity said if the company could pay them their full salaries and two-year pension which were not remitted to the PFA, they were prepared to resign their appointments and leave the organisation.

He said he was not ready to work as a slave in his own country.

“I am ready to resign from this company if am paid my full salaries and my two-year pension not remitted to the PFA. We are not shifting ground until our demands are met,” he added.

Another worker, who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution, said, “You can see for yourself; the protest is in full blast. The gate has been locked since 6am and no supply since last night. It’s a total shutdown.”

A customer, Fatima Adamu, who was on the premises to purchase prepaid metre card was stunned as there was no worker to attend to her.

She expressed disappointment at the protest and appealed to the management to do the needful for the peace to reign.

But the Kaduna Electric’s Head of Corporate Communications, Abdulazeez Abdullahi, told our correspondent on the telephone that the issue was being resolved.

He said, “The issue is being resolved. It is the issue of salaries. We have a little challenge with our revenue collection in the month of September but before month end, we will pay. There is no cause for alarm.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]