Firm commences entrepreneurship programme, gives N1m seed fund
the Feed Tonight Foundation’s Entrepreneurship Programme on Tuesday released N1m seed fund to a startup, Flair Underwear, which it would use to expand its line of business, which is production of its unique brand of boxers.

Presenting the cheque to the founder and team leader of the startup, Omotoso Olawale, the managing director of Culture Communications, a marketing communications firm, Mr Yomi Benson, said promotion of entrepreneurship would ultimately lead to the development of the nation’s economy.

Benson said over 50 entries were submitted by the various startups, but 10 were shortlisted and nine of them participated in the final pitch for the seed fund, but Flair Underwear’s presentation stood out among its peers.

This being the maiden edition, he said the seed fund would be given annually to any startup or a business idea that requires such seed fund to succeed.

He said, “This is a maiden edition and it is going to be on annual basis. Today, we have given N1m to a startup, Flair Underwear, whose founder/team leader, Omotoso Olawale, presented a convincing and practical business expansion strategy which would definitely succeed.

“The others also presented theirs, they are all good, but the best idea got the seed fund of N1m.”

Benson said the contest was open to males and females within Nigeria, irrespective of educational background or ethnicity, adding that participation and opportunity to win would be easy but the applicants must demonstrate willingness and passion to succeed.

He said while foundation was about charity, in which over 200 underprivileged were fed weekly, it decided to embrace empowerment through entrepreneurship.

He said, “We thought we need to extend this initiative to entrepreneurship, that is not feeding people with fish but also teach them how to fish. We embark on this not because we have so much fund, but because we believe we need to support young and brilliant Nigerians who have ideas that could have spiral effect on the economy and the society.”

He urged the winner make the judicious use of the money, warning that the foundation would monitor him and ensured that the money was spent to expand his business.

Benson commended the judges which include Henry Onukwuba a Senior Fellow of Lagos Business School, Pastor Femi Obaweya, and Eyitemi Taire, Managing Director Techno- Culture Limited for a thorough job in screening over fifty ideas that were submitted by applicants.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]