Implement policies that’ll encourage manufacturing’
the Managing Director, Finlab Nigeria Limited, Mr Uzo Nwaije, has called on the Federal Government to continue to lend support to manufacturers by implementing policies that will encourage them to thrive.

He made this call while speaking on the topic, ‘Strengthening indigenous Manufacturing in Nigeria’, Nwaije who commended government for its contribution towards the growth and development of manufacturers, especially with the 40 per cent local content policy, stated that there was still more to be done to assist them.

He said the government needed to formulate more policies that would reduce Nigeria’s dependence on importation.

He said, “I think the Federal Government is doing extremely well, especially in the area of 40 per cent local content. But we believe they can do better by helping to look into other areas such as formulating policies to reduce dependence on importation. We will also appreciate if they can raise the percentage of local content.”

Nwaije who admitted the tough challenges in the sector said he remained optimistic that indigenous manufacturers would succeed in the long run provided government continue to support them.

He added, “Manufacturing in Nigeria is not easy when you consider the ease of doing business, government policies, power and how they affect business. As you know, we produce laboratory fittings, equipment, glass wares and plastic wares, bringing raw materials of these products into Nigeria can be very tough due to cost of import duty and other charges.”

Nwaije noted that with the signing of African Continental Free Trade Agreement signed by the President, there was a need to put the necessary structure in place to make the agreement work, adding that Nigerian products had greater chance of competing favourably in the market.

According to him, more investment should be expended in the area of road infrastructure and power as doing so will make Nigeria’s products more competitive among other partners as well as globally.

He said, “I consider AfCTA has a good move that would help promote and improve business in Nigeria but I think we need to solve some of the major problems affecting the growth of our economy. If we want our goods to be competitive, power supply has to be improved, roads infrastructure must be in good shape and security must be in place.

For me, I think we have what it takes to excel, all we need to do is to invest in our country. We have the population and we have the market.”

Nwaije therefore urged consumers to continue to prioritise and patronise Made in Nigeria goods, stating that doing so would encourage indigenous manufacturers to thrive.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]