FoodCo plans to deepen retail space
the Chief Executive Officer, FoodCo Nigeria Limited, Ade Sun-Basorun, has said that the organised retail sector has been deepened due to the entry of the retail market into Lekki, Lagos. Founded 37 years ago in Ibadan, Oyo State, FoodCo, is a diversified consumer goods company with interests in retail, quick service restaurants, entertainment and manufacturing. It is also owners of the supermarket chain in South-West Nigeria, outside Lagos.

Speaking during the launch of the company’s first Lagos outlet, Sun-Basorun, stated that the brand’s presence in Lagos would complement the modern consumer retail industry already active in the city and fully service the needs of consumers.

He said: “We are a 37-year-old institution and a part of a small group of consumer retail companies that created formal retail in the country. We are also part of a small group that created quick service restaurants in the country; dating back to two and a half decades.

“From very early in our journey, our mission statement has always been to be the foremost retailer of consumer products in South-West, Nigeria and we have had quite a lot to do to satisfy the needs of our home state of Oyo State and across other areas in the South-West region. So, we finally yielded to the numerous requests of our customers to come to Lagos and we are excited today to be opening our first location in Lekki, in the great city of Lagos.”

He said the modern retail sector would continue to drive the nation’s development in the area of making goods and foods available to Nigerians at affordable prices in a modern ambience with the accompanying comfort and convenience.

The Lekki store is FoodCo’s ninth store in the south-west region.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]