Banks’ loans without collateral’ll fall in Q4
Nike Popoola

banks may reduce lending without collateral to borrowers in the fourth quarter, a report by the Central Bank of Nigeria has revealed.

The Statistics Department of the CBN stated in its Credit Conditions Survey Report

Q3 that, the availability of secured credit to households increased in third quarter 2019 and was expected to increase in the next quarter.

It attributed improved market share as the major factor for the increase in secured credit.

It stated, “Lenders reported that the availability of unsecured credit to households increased in Q3 2019, but it is expected to decrease in Q4 2019.

‘Most lenders adduced market share objectives for this increase.”

The overall availability of credit to the corporate sector decreased in Q3 2019 but was expected to increase in the next quarter.

Capital market pressure was the major factor contributing to the increase.

Demand for secured lending for house purchase decreased in Q3 2019, but lenders expected demand for secured lending to increase in the next quarter.

According to the report, the proportion of loan applications approved increased even though lenders maintained the credit scoring criteria.

Demand for total unsecured lending from households increased in the current quarter, and was expected to increase in the next quarter.

In spite of lenders’ resolve to retain the credit scoring criterion, the proportion of approved unsecured loan applications increased in the current quarter and was expected to further increase in the next quarter.

Lenders reported increased demand for corporate credit from all firm sizes in Q3 2019.

They also expected increased demand from all firm sizes in the next quarter.

Secured loan performance, as measured by default rates, improved in the review quarter, and lenders still expected lower default rates in the next quarter.

Total unsecured loan performance to households, as measured by default rates, improved in Q3 2019 and was expected to further improve in the next quarter.

Corporate loan performance improved across all

sizes of firm in the current quarter.

Lenders expected lower default rates for all firm sizes in the next quarter.

Lenders reported that the overall spreads on secured lending rates on approved new loans to households relative to MPR widened in Q3 2019, but was expected to remain unchanged in the next quarter.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]