Leadership, cultural shift cogent for bank’s growth
The Managing Director, Philips Consulting Plc, Robert Taiwo, has said that banking requires culture and leadership more than technology in a digital transformation.

In a statement, he said this at the 12th Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria’s annual banking and finance conference in Abuja recently.

The two-day conference with the theme, ‘The future of the Nigerian banking industry 360,’ addressed matters that would enable stakeholders to reposition the finance and banking industry.

He spoke on the topic, ‘Driving digital and innovation,’ Taiwo, said, “Culture and leadership are more important than technology in a digital transformation.”

The guest speaker advised organisations to begin to pursue digital transformation differently if they wanted to survive in a digital-led economy.

He said, “As per digital transformation and change, the components are technology, culture, and leadership. I believe the technology will take care of itself, especially in Nigeria where we have leapfrogged in terms of digital and our use of emerging technologies. Nigerian banks must now begin to focus on changes in culture and leadership.”

He stressed the need for organisations to make the transition from a command-and-control culture towards an adhocratic culture that promoted speed, impact, and openness.

He also advocated a shift from the traditional methods of leadership to transformational leadership that relied more on empathy, coaching, and empowerment.

“This is the kind of leadership we need to drive digital economy 4.0,” he advised.

Taiwo encouraged public and private sector institutions on the need to ensure an increase in digital literacy.

While a lot was happening in this space, he said, “We still have a lot of work to do. I know that government at the federal and state levels are rolling out digital awareness programmes. The private sector is also pushing out programmes around digital training and new technologies. But we do need to step up.”

.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]