PwC advises FG to focus on key minerals
Ihuoma Chiedozie, Abuja

Pricewaterhouse

Coopers Nigeria has advised the Federal Government to focus on key minerals to actualise its plans to increase the contribution of mining to the country’s Gross Domestic Product.

Currently, mining contributes less than one per cent to the GDP, despite abundant mineral deposits in nearly all states in Nigeria.

The Federal Government’s mining road map is targeting a three per cent contribution to the GDP from the mining sector by 2025.

Speaking on the sidelines of the ongoing 4th Annual Nigerian Mining Week in Abuja, Head Advisory and Consulting, and Mining Sector Leader, PwC Nigeria, Cyril Azobu, said the government should take steps to stimulate the development of the industry.

The PwC, a leading advisor in the mining industry globally and in Nigeria, is partnering the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development on the Mining Week.

Azobu, who spoke on how mining could make a greater contribution to the GDP, said the Federal Government should focus on developing identified strategic minerals.

“Whereas we have a lot of minerals, some say 43; some say more; there is a need to be focused and identify key minerals.

“In terms of driving economic diversification, driving productivity as well as driving economic development within the nation or industrialisation, government needs to identify the key strategic minerals and stimulate investment across the value chain,” he said.

Nigeria must move beyond mere extraction and exportation of solid minerals, he added.

According to him, government should equally ensure that policies that have been set out are absolutely implemented.

PwC Nigeria, in an advisory outlook, entitled, ‘Unlocking the potential of the mining and steel sector in Nigeria’, said there was an urgent need to conduct a study on the impact of the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement on the Nigerian mining industry.

The outlook, authored by Azobu and Habeed Jaiyeola, Associate Director and Head Mining Sector Business Development at the PwC Nigeria, called for projections on expected developments in line with the AfCFTA.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]