Dangote Cement customers win cars in promo
NO fewer than 35 saloon cars worth N350m were said to have been won out of the 43 on offer in the extended on-going Dangote Cement national consumer promotion tagged “Bag of Goodies.’

The Group Managing Director of Dangote Cement Plc,Joseph Makoju, said this in Makurdi while presenting the star prize to a mason, Clement James, a statement made available to our correspondent indicated.

At the presentation made at the Benue State capital, others prizes given out to winners were refrigerators, television sets and hundreds of Goodies Pack of Dangote Products among others.

Expressing satisfaction that star prize winner emerged in Benue State, Makoju explained that the hand-over of prizes was all the more remarkable because the first Dangote Cement plant began in nearby Gboko, before the cement manufacturing giant expanded to presently cover three major plants in Nigeria and to 10 other African nations.

“While collecting the keys to his brand-new car, 32-year-old star prize winner, James, could barely contain his joy, amidst his profound gratitude to Dangote, for dispelling his initial skepticism about a promo which is geared towards empowering 21 million Nigerians,” it added.

Makoju congratulated James and expressed his happiness to be in Benue State, the cradle of the Dangote Cement success story that it is today.

He said, “I am happy to be here today to meet our customers and distributors. You are the ones that made this country grow. This is the capital of Benue State, a state that hosts one of our cement plants. Dangote first cement plant started from Gboko.

“Today, we have cement plants in 10 countries. What started in Gboko has gone across Africa. Today’s programme is to say ‘thank you’. This promo is the largest ever, first in history. We appreciate your support. There is more. This is the first in Benue, but it won’t be the last in Benue.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]