Dangote Refinery empowers 200 Ibeju-Lekki youths
Femi Asu

Dangote Petroleum Refinery and Petrochemicals Company has empowered 200 youths from Ibeju-Lekki community in Lagos State with vocational skills.

The beneficiaries have undergone various skills acquisition programmes organised by the firm and facilitated by the National Directorate of Employment and the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board.

According to a statement, the skills acquisition programmes cut across a wide range of vocational skills such as plumbing, welding, iron bending, auto mechanics and electrical works.

The Executive Director, Strategy, Capital Projects and Portfolio Development, Dangote Group, Mr Devakumar Edwin, said the initiative was a demonstration of Dangote Refinery’s commitment towards capacity-building and youth empowerment in the country.

Edwin, who spoke at the graduation for the first batch of beneficiaries, said the programme was another level of Dangote Petroleum Refinery’s intervention targeted at providing vocational skills to the teeming youth population in its host communities.

He told the beneficiaries, “With the tools given to you today, you can be good ambassadors of this great community. So many graduates outside are still searching for jobs, but yours is different because you have been trained.

“We are good to give you our maximum support to ensure you are employed in our operations, as our host communities remain our priority. These skills given to you today can take you to various places and attract better opportunity if managed effectively.”

Edwin advised the youths to be committed to continuous learning and development.

He said the petroleum refining and fertilizer complex being built by the company would transform the fortunes of the host communities.

The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, commended Dangote Group for the initiative, and urged the youths to be good ambassadors of the states and their community.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the[email protected]