WIMA demands more women participation in maritime
Anna Okon

The Women in Maritime Organisation has intensified its call for greater participation of women in the maritime sector.

The organisation gave this indication in Lagos on Tuesday, during the WIMA Annual Conference of Women in Maritime.

Speaking at the event with the theme, ‘Empowering women for effective participation in the maritime sector,’ the President, WIMA, Hajia Bola Muse, said because the maritime sector was a key industry, women who make up about 50 per cent of the nation’s population should not be excluded in activities within the industry.

She added that it was imperative that stakeholders in the maritime community start an aggressive campaign to encourage more female participation in seafaring and maritime trade.

According to her, this will increase the talent pool of both soft and hard technical skills that women bring to the table from managerial roles to the seafaring and freight forwarding roles.

Muse maintained that the theme of the event was apt and in line with the Federal Government’s vision of creating a better gender balance in the Nigerian maritime workforce.

She said, “The theme has also been carefully selected in recognition of the International Maritime Organisation’s 2019 gender programme which says,

“There is ample evidence that investing in women is the most effective way to lift communities, companies and even countries.

“Countries with a more gender equality have better economic growth. Companies with more women leaders perform better. Peace agreements that include women are more durable.

“Parliaments with more women enact more legislations on key social issues such as health, education, anti-discrimination and child support.”

Muse called for training and mentorship of young women to take up responsibilities in the maritime industry.

“I want to advise that women should take up careers in shipping and allied professions to boost productivity. There is therefore the need to encourage young girls to take interest in Science and Technology Engineering and Mathematics in order to pursue career in the shipping, marine, operations and engineering sub-sector.

“I will also advise the Federal Government to fund specialised institutions and provide incentives for girls to take courses in these areas.

“To redress the imbalance, government agencies and private sector investors must also be deliberate about increasing the tally of women in the sector.”

Also speaking at the event, the Minister of State for Transportation, Senator Gbemisola Saraki, stated that to achieve the development of the blue economy, the Women In Maritime-Africa maritime strategy 2050 focused on providing a platform for training, capacity building, corporate and entrepreneurial development of African women in the maritime sector.

She said with women in position in the sector, issues like climate change flooding, extreme weather and other environmental conditions could be reversed and palliative measures evolved to address them.

The Director- General, Maritime Seafarers’ Association, David Ogar, called for a defined maritime policy that spelt out the role of women in the sector.

He said there needed to be a re-establishment of the National shipping line that could give young women employment.

He called for proper maritime security to take care of women operating in the sector, saying that women cannot just be pushed out to sea.

He said, women seafarers’ welfare conditions should also be addressed.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]