Lagos records highest attacks as global piracy drops
Anna Okon

lagos has so far recorded 11 incidents of piracy in 2019, the highest in the globally ratings released by the International Maritime Bureau.

Despite reporting more attacks than any other country, piracy attacks in Nigeria in the third quarter reduced to 29 from 41 in 2018.

The bureau also reported a drop in global piracy incidents in the first nine months of 2019.

According to the bureau, pirate attacks for the first three quarters of the year have fallen to a five-year low.

The bureau said in its latest report that the months between January and September saw fewer incidents of piracy and armed robbery attacks against ships than the corresponding period of 2018.

However, the IMB noted that the Gulf of Guinea remained a high risk area for piracy and armed robbery.

It revealed that the region accounted for 86 per cent of crew hostage taking and nearly 82 per cent of crew kidnappings globally.

“Although incidents are down, the Gulf of Guinea continues to be a concern for piracy and armed robbery-related activities with kidnappings of crew members increasing in both scale and frequency,”

Pottengal Mukundan, Director, ICC IMB, said.

It added, “119 incidents have been reported to the IMB Piracy Reporting Centre in 2019, compared to 156 incidents for the same period in 2018.

Overall, the 2019 incidents include 95 vessels boarded, 10 vessels fired upon, 10 attempted attacks, and four vessels hijacked.

“The number of crew taken hostage through the first nine months has declined from 112 in 2018 to 49 in 2019.”

The report added that Indonesia continued with a trend of the decline in overall piracy related incidents with 20 actual and attempted attacks for the first nine months of 2019.

IMB noted that this could be attributed to continued information sharing between the Indonesian Marine Police and the IMB PRC.

Worth noting is that no piracy-related incidents were recorded in Somalia for the first nine months of 2019. Despite this, IMB PRC advised shipowners to remain cautious when transiting these waters.Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]