Nigeria holds huge promise for Indian firms – ICC
’Femi Asu

The Director-General and Chief Executive Officer of Indian Chamber of Commerce, Dr Rajeev Singh, has said Indian firms are keen to tap opportunities in the Nigerian energy sector.

Singh stated this ahead of the forthcoming Future Energy Nigeria 2019 in Lagos next month for which the ICC is the country partner.

He was quoted in a statement as saying, “Nigeria as a country holds tremendous promise for Indian companies in terms of exports. Our exporters have forged good alliances and they are exporting to Nigeria in decent quantum through participation in this programme for the last two years.

“We have observed that there is a tremendous potential for Indian products in this market and we should continue to create more opportunity space for Indian companies to cater to Nigerian ecosystem.”

According to him, the primary objective of ICC regarding the event is to connect over 1800 C-level industry professionals across the full spectrum of the sector to address today’s challenges and implement tomorrow’s solutions.

Singh said, “Indian utility vendor and services will find a huge market and scope in Africa, especially in West Africa’s energy sector. With the latest World Bank loan, Nigeria is upgrading its transmission and distribution infrastructure and solar projects; so this has brought a good interest to the Indian utility vendors and market.

“Energy is one of the major drivers of a growing economy like India and is an essential building block of economic development. There is a strong two-way relationship between economic development and energy consumption.”

He said economic growth in India had largely been associated with increased energy consumption.

Singh said, “Over past few years, climate change has become one of the main concerns driving energy policy. Since energy use is a major source of emissions, it is necessary to focus on the management of energy demand and supply as a means to abatement.

“Technological progress, energy efficiency programmes and structural changes contribute towards the variation in energy demand. Understanding the various components of energy demand is therefore important and necessary in order to deal with future emissions.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]