Chaka launches global trading platform
A global trading and investment platform, Chaka, has been launched in the Nigerian market.

The Chief Executive Officer, Chaka, Tosin Osibodu, while speaking during the launching, which took place in Lagos on Tuesday, stated that the platform offered customers access to Nigerian and global financial assets.

He added that the technology-enabled platform, referred to as a ‘digital investment passport’, allowed users to invest in stocks listed on NASDAQ, the New York Stock Exchange and the Nigerian Stock Exchange and 37 other exchanges.

According to him, the platform, which is just on the web for now, offers over 4000 assets and indexes from companies such as Apple, Alibaba, Google, the S&P 500 index, among others.

Osibodu said the company was working to launch an application to make it easier for the technologically-advanced population.

He said, “Chaka provides opportunities for local investors to explore international markets and diversify their portfolios into African and global capital markets.

“In addition to this, it offers global citizens access to invest in local capital markets with just a click, thus bridging the gap in accessing viable investment vehicles.

“With booming growth in many nations around the world, investors can now own a stake in the growth of other economies. Yet, for many Nigerians, this is a daunting task. We created Chaka to fill this gap, and likewise, give the global community access to local capital markets.”

Osibodu stated that the goal of the company was to provide premium borderless trading and investment opportunities for Nigerian professionals and investors.

He noted that Chaka facilitated access to assets listed on the NSE, American stock exchanges, as well as global blue-chip companies from over 40 countries around the world.

He added that the company had partnered US-based tech firm, DriveWealth, LLC, to provide customers with compliant access to the United States stock market and other markets by reducing barriers to investment

Osibodu said, “Through this partnership, we are ensuring that Nigerians can own a stake in their favourite companies in the US.

“Chaka is facilitated by Citi Investment Capital Limited, a licensed Nigerian stockbroking firm registered with the Security and Exchange Commission, to ensure regulatory compliance, proper market behaviour and security of investors.”

He said that all local brokerage accounts and global dollar brokerage accounts were insured by the Investors Protection Fund, based on the NSE rules, and the Securities Investor Protection Council, respectively.

The Growth Manager, Chaka, Feranmi Akeredolu, said the company aimed to reduce the knowledge barriers in investing to break the myth that investment in the capital market was difficult and for the rich.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]