Before you sell that property
Abiodun Doherty

There are many reasons why people sell their property but it usually can be narrowed down to three: upgrade, downgrade or relocation.

A seller may want to upgrade by buying or building a bigger house or moving to a more affluent neighbourhood. It is also possible that a seller wants to downgrade by selling a bigger property in order to rent or buy a smaller property.

An older investor living in a massive property with his or her spouse without any adult children still staying under the same roof may consider it unnecessary to live in a massive property with many empty rooms. And sometimes a seller might be relocating to another state or country and wants to move his assets elsewhere through sale.

The dilemma most people in this situation face is deciding what to do first. It is often an issue to consider whether to sell the present property they have first and then buy after or if they have the funds to buy the new property first and then sell later or they relocate first and then sell their property later. The truth is that there is no one size fits all answer since each person situation, circumstances and resources are different and they will ultimately determine the options that is available to each person.

There is also the movement of the market to consider before any rational decision can be taken. The property market fluctuates and this could work for you or against you depending on whether or not you are selling. In a boom market the prices of properties keep rising and a property that you fail to buy yesterday will likely cost you more later tomorrow. If you are in such a market it might be better to buy first before you sell your property. This could save you several thousands in additional cost that you may have to pay for the same property due to rising cost.

However, in a downward market it might be more pragmatic to sell your property first and then begin the process of searching for the right property to purchase. If you reverse the process you might end up selling your property for less than you anticipated and having to make up the difference. Meanwhile your equity in the current property that you have purchased keeps going down. If you sell first and buy later at least you know how much you sold your property for as well as having the opportunity to buy the current property at a discount as a result of the downturn in the market.

Both the sell first and buy later or buy first and sell later have their pros and cons.If you sell your property first you will be under pressure to deliver possession to the new owner and this could create some uncomfortable situation.Although this situation could be managed through renting a home into which you could move while sorting out the purchase.If you are buying first and then selling later you need to structure your finance to absorb any accompanying costs that might arise from the purchase.It is also possible to arrange the settlement of your own sale in a way that will not put you in the uncomfortable situation of paying mortgage on two properties for a while.

In order to avoid falling into this situation some investors have devised some brilliant ways of managing these tensions.It is possible to secure a bridging loan for the period of transition between the sale and the purchase.This bridging loan could help the seller manage financial commitments while going through this process.However this could also pose a problem if the entire process takes longer than expected and the loan keeps on accumulating interests which could then affect the finance of the seller.

Where a seller has enough personal funds to go though this process, then the person could set a longer time frame that will not put pressure on them to conclude the transaction.

A seller could decide to buy first and then rent out the property that he is planning to sell. While the initial property is generating an income for him, he can decide to keep it for a while. The seller could also decide to move into a rented apartment for a while in order to take time to check out the new neighbourhoods or search out other properties. If the seller is not under pressure, they can take their time to make a more informed decision. Knowledge of the local market, available funds and the seller’s personal circumstances will all come together to determine which option is best.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]