Use recovered loot for public good, says TUC
Anna Okon

The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria has called on the Federal Government to use all the forfeited properties for public interest.

It added that the over N1tn recovered from corrupt Nigerians should be used to provide some basic amenities lacking all over the country.

The Itse Sagay-led Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption, recently, declared that the Committee has generated a total of N1tn in cash, as part of the looted assets.

The Congress in a press statement signed by its President, Quadri Olaleye and Secretary General, Musa-Lawal Ozigi, commended the effort of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Independent Corrupt Practices And Other Related Offences Commission and PACAC, for trying to sanitise the country and get rid of corruption.

Olaleye specifically suggested that the properties should be used for public interest like school hostels, Youth Corpers’ lodge, tax offices, youth development centres and others.

He said, “I have seen pictures of police barracks and military cantonments in the country and I can tell you they are displeasing and ugly sights. These security operatives live and raise children in very dirty environments; whereas some privileged individuals loot the treasury to build mansions and even own estates in choice cities.

Those estates should be converted to an extension of police and military barracks.”

“Effort should also be made to reclaim and sell out the properties acquired in foreign countries. It makes no sense stealing from the country and investing elsewhere, while agencies of government are in a rented apartment and Nigerians homeless.”

He advised the Federal Government and agencies in charge to leave no stone unturned in the fight for sanity in the system. “Some people have alleged that the corruption fight is only against the opposition parties. While many of us do not believe that we would like to advise that the fight be total, irrespective of whose ox is gored,” he emphasised.

In another development, Olaleye said that technological advancement around the globe was gradually posing threat to jobs.

He said this in Lagos during the celebration of the 2019 United Nations World Day for Decent Work organised by the Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions.

Speaking on the theme of the event which was ‘Threats to Job Security and Work-Life Balance in Digitalised Environment’, Olaleye warned that machines were already taking the place of humans in the workplace.

He said this development had serious implication for job security.

Referencing American writer, Sameul Becker, the TUC boss listed the major threats to jobs to include, discrimination, artificial intelligence, and the role of the shareholders (every employee is at the mercy of his/her employer).

Others, he said, were immigration, background/credit checks, outsourcing and economic downturns.

“These are forces workers are confronted with currently so we must think out of the box to remain relevant,” he advised.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]