We’ll ensure broad participation in auto policy – FG
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Secretary, Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council, Dr Jumoke Oduwole, has said there are efforts to ensure broad stakeholder participation in developing the National Automotive Industry Development Plan Bill.

Oduwole, who is also the Special Adviser to the President on the Ease of Doing Business, noted that economies around the world had developed through vibrant auto assembly and production industry because of the catalytic amount of jobs that the sector could create.

Speaking at the Cars45 Automotive Entrepreneur Programme, she stated that there was a need for a policy that would boost economic prosperity.

She said, “The auto industry is pivotal and critical to the growth of our economy and we are taking our time to shape the automotive policy so that we are able to compete with other players on the continent and enable those who have invested resources to derive maximum value.

“We need an auto policy that will be enduring; we don’t want a policy that we will have and after few years, we will need to change it and that is why we are calling for more contributions.”

Oduwole, while commending Cars45 for initiating an empowerment programme aimed at reducing unemployment, said such efforts by entrepreneurial ventures would deepen economic growth.

“Companies like Cars45 represent the energy of this economy as entrepreneurial activities account for over 48 per cent of the GDP contributions and therefore are a demography that can’t be ignored. We are not unaware of the challenges that businesses face and we are doing everything within our powers to set the economy on the right path,” she said.

The Chief Executive Officer, Cars45, Etop Ikpe, explained that the platform was designed as a framework for poverty alleviation and to drive business growth and profitability for individuals, irrespective of their social class.

According to him, the initiative provides Nigerians with the opportunity of making extra income by referring people to buy, swap or sell their cars or subscribe to the bouquet of services that Cars45 offers.

These services, he said, comprised its emergency road assistance, premium inspections, concierge, inspection and valuation, pre-order, and annual maintenance contract, among others.

Ikpe said the company’s initiative was in line with the Federal Government’s desire to drive economic growth, invest in human capital and build a globally competitive economy.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]