2020 budget: NECA fears mass retrenchment of workers
Anna Okon

The Director-General, Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association, Mr Timothy Olawale, stated that although the overall policy thrust of the 2020 budget is to ensure economic growth and job creation, the document wasn’t clear on the inclusion of the consequential adjustment of the national minimum wage in the Appropriation Bill.

Consequently, he said there could be possibility of the Federal Government, and even some state governments embarking on massive retrenchment of workers and also further threat of strikes by the labour movement.

He also pointed out that even though there was an improvement in the budget presentation period over the previous years, the document should have been presented earlier to enable the National Assembly perform its duties thoroughly.

He however cautioned the 9th National Assembly “to expedite action in order to return the budgetary process to a January –December fiscal year as enshrined in the constitution.”

Speaking further, Olawale noted that the oil benchmark in the budget proposed was $57 per barrel, which reflected a reduction from $60 per barrel in the 2019 approved budget.

He said, however, that the benchmark price was just slightly above the current average price of $58 witnessed in the course of eight months in 2019.

According to him, any further impact on the global economy could result in the crash of global oil price as there is reduced demand due to slow down in global economy as attested to by the International Monetary Fund and World Bank forecast.

Olawale, further noted that the exchange rate of N305/$ remained unchanged, a projected Gross Domestic Product growth of 2.93 per cent , as against seven per cent projected in Economic Recovery and Growth Plan.

He also added that the proposed daily crude oil production of 2.18 million barrels per day, including condensates against 2.3 mbpd in 2019 budget, reflected a decrease from 2018 and 2019.

“All these indicators are a departure from what was articulated in the Medium Term Plan and the ERGP,” he stated.

“Furthermore, President Muhammadu Buhari presented N10.33tn budget with projected Federal Government revenue of N8.15tn, reflecting a deficit of N2.18tn, he added, stressing that the growing Debt-Revenue ratio was becoming a critical issue for urgent consideration.

He said, “Moreover, borrowings to finance the budget deficit will be sourced externally, in order to clamp down on astronomical rise in debt serving.

“Although external debt provides ample room to decelerate the growth in interest expenditure; at the same time the urgency to manage external shock better cannot be overemphasised as external debt is employed more frequently in debt management.”

The NECA DG further suggested that Federal Government should as a matter of urgency commence disposing of government non-oil asset, adding that gradual improvement in the output would increase non-oil revenue.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]