Address lapses in insurers management, NAICOM tells boards
The National Insurance Commission has urged the board of directors of insurance companies to ensure sound management of the companies without interfering in the management functions.

The acting Commissioner for Insurance, Mr Sunday Thomas, said this during the second edition of the conference for directors of insurance companies, with the theme, ‘Corporate governance: The panacea for sustainable growth and development of insurance business in Nigeria,’ in Lagos on Tuesday.

He said, “The board is also expected to ensure the financial soundness and general wellbeing of the organisation by monitoring the management, to guarantee effective and efficient deployment of human and capital resources in the overall benefit of all stakeholders.

“The observance of this role has been lacking in some of our companies and which has contributed in no small measure to the challenges facing these companies today.

“It is our firm believe that members of the board can effectively perform their roles without necessarily interfering in management functions. The desire of the commission is to work with all stakeholders including members of the board of directors to reverse this trend.”

He also said the commission would not tolerate any action of delayed claims payment or default of genuine claims by the insurance companies.

He said, “It is imperative for me to remind us here that your companies are in the business of insurance primarily to settle genuine claims made by policyholders. In all policy formulations of the board, I am appealing that the prompt settlement of claims be given a high priority. The commission will view seriously any case of late or non-payment of genuine claims.”

Thomas said the event was one of such programmes earmarked by the commission to keep members of the board of directors abreast of the workings of the sector being one of its critical stakeholders.

He said the conference was also expected to stimulate discussions that would redefine the future of the Nigeria’s insurance industry and reposition it for growth and development.

In the last few years, he said, the insurance industry had witnessed series of changes following reforms embarked upon by NAICOM.

Thomas added that the commission would continue to introduce new reforms and initiatives in the march towards achieving the full potential of the industry. Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]