Don advises FG, others on border closure
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

A professor of rural sociology, Kolawole Adebayo, has said that Nigeria will benefit from the border closure if it evolves strategies to improve local production and become more competitive.

He said this at the maiden biennial conference of Oyo State College of Agriculture and Technology in Igboora.

Adebayo, the keynote speaker at the conference, is also the Team Leader, International and Rural Development at Livelihoods Support and Development Centre.

Adebayo said that the border closure was a short-term solution to a long-term problem, adding such effort would only prevent neighbouring nations from flooding Nigeria market with agricultural products in a short term.

“Border closure is a short-term solution to a long-term problem. It means that in the short run our neighbours will not be able to flood our market with agricultural products.

“But it is not a long-term solution because we can’t close the border forever. When you close the border, what are we doing locally so that by the time we open the border you become more competitive.

“And one of the ways to become more competitive is to reduce the cost of production locally. So, if the food we produce locally is cheaper than the food that is being smuggled into the country, people will naturally gravitate towards our own local food.

“But if the smuggled food is cheaper, it is a law of economics, people tend to buy something that makes economic sense to them,” he said.

While he added that there was a need for the country to work on its human development, people, their mindset and value system, Adebayo lamented the rate at which everyone “thinks of what they would get from the nation and not how they could contribute to national development.”

The former Rector of the institution and special guest, Prof. Gbemiga Adewale, appreciated the state governor, Seyi Makinde, on the rehabilitation of the old farm settlements in the state to become farm estates.

The Dean, Faculty of Science, University of Ibadan, Prof. Abiodun Ayodele, said for the nation to attain food sufficiency, it must be ready to solve the conflicts in various parts of the country.

The acting Rector of the institution, Mr Isiaka Adekunle, said the conference was aimed at providing a platform to improve teaching horizon, interact, exchange ideas and learn new innovations.17

He said that for any academic staff of the institution to get promoted, attendance at conferences was germane, adding that failure to meet such would make them remain stagnant.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]