New BMW 7 Series dazzles with driverless feature
Rasheed Bisiriyu

Nigeria may have technically received its first driverless vehicle with the launch of the new BMW 7 Series in Lagos, a feature that held those who recently witnessed the demonstration spellbound.

The launch of the 2019/2020 model of the vehicle came with the unveiling of the BMW X7 sport activity vehicle.

Representative of the BMW brand in Nigeria, Coscharis Motors, confirmed the introduction of the two premium models was specially arranged as part of activities to mark Nigeria’s 59th independence anniversary.

President/Chief Executive Officer of Coscharis Group, Cosmas Maduka, described the BMW 7 Series and X7 as terrific super luxury cars that would continue to excite their owners, riders and admirers.

He said, “We are proud to reveal a unifying first ever BMW X7 and a new 7 Series. These vehicles have on the road power, competency and capability.

“But to really appreciate these BMW vehicles, you need to understand the levels of refinement and innovation captured in them.”

Maduka said the auto firm was glad to have the launch at the Banana Island Cultural Festival, given the global representation at the event, which he noted “helps to cement the global feel and acceptance of these BMW brands.”

He demonstrated how to operate the car’s driverless feature using a remote control to the admiration of the audience. According to him, with the feature, the driver could stand some distance away from the vehicle and move it out of a particularly tight parking space by simply pressing some buttons on the key.

“For the first time ever in the history of BMW, the BMW 7 series, which has remained a benchmark for luxury sedans, comes as a SAV – the X7. The BMW X7 as the latest premium Sports Activity Vehicle is designed to reflect the personality and requirements of the owner. It not only adds a new top model to the X family, but also defines a progressive approach to luxury for the BMW brand,” he stated.

Other detailed features of the 7 Series were provided by the auto firm in a statement.

For instance, it stated that anyone taking a seat in a sedan in this price range should expect the highest level of ride comfort, adding that the new BMW 7 Series would deliver in every respect.

“The car’s comfortable seats have multiple adjustment options; and with the added benefit of the optional seat climate control including a massage function, they are outstanding in every respect,” it stated.

The new 7 Series came with an optional anti-roll system (Executive Drive Pro), which would reduce body movement in bends to a minimum.

It said, “When entering a bend, the Bavarian with its all-wheel steering is noticeably faster than the Audi and Mercedes and appears to have the better handling, not least because of its less pronounced and more manageable responses to throttle adjustment.”

The new BMW 7 Series ws also said to have perfect connectivity and its standard features were given as a high-resolution navigation system with WLAN hotspot for online access and a hands-free Bluetooth mobile phone interface.

In terms of maintenance costs, BMW, according to the statement, now offers the best, given that maintenance is included in its price for the first five years and 100,000km.

It also said, “The progress made in the new BMW 7 Series is best experienced not behind the wheel but on the right-hand side rear seat. This is where you will have time to admire the grand choice of materials, combine the many colours of the ambient lighting system and gaze at the 1,400 virtual stars sparkling on the glass roof.

“And when you then lie back in the lounge seat and put your feet up while having your back massaged and your nostrils pleasured by aromatic essences, you’ll begin to grasp what BMW meant when they coined the term ‘The Future of Modern Luxury’: the joy of being driven in this car.”

The 7 Series came with an unexpected surprise, gaining two bonus points: for five years, BMW promised to cover the car’s maintenance costs, with the customer having to pay for wear parts only.

Trim/engine

An auto journal, The Car Connection, notes that the 7-Series is available in 740i, 740e, 750i, and M760i configurations with 4-, 6-, 8-, or 12-cylinder power — one of the widest spans of powertrains available in a sedan.

All engine configurations are said to be available with all-wheel drive, but the M760i’s prolific turbocharged V-12 demands that all four wheels claw at the pavement.

The most common 7-Series will be 740i versions that are powered by a 320-horsepower turbocharged inline-6 that propels the car up to 60 mph in around five seconds. V-8-powered 750i models are truly rich — inside and out — and can be opulently trimmed. The 4.4-litre turbocharged V-8 spins out more than 400hp.

Safety

Every 7-Series is equipped with a suite of advanced safety systems that can pilot the car alone for short distances (less than 1 minute) or in stop-and-go traffic to reduce driver fatigue. It’s life-saving tech that doubles up as hugely convenient.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]