AfDB, others to develop green financing instruments
Nike Popoola

The African Development Bank, in partnership with the Climate Investment Funds, has commissioned the Coalition for Green Capital to prepare a study on the creation of national climate change funds and green banks in Africa.

The CGC would identify and work with six African countries to conduct feasibility studies for the project, which was initiated at the Green Bank Design Summit held in Paris in March 2019.

The summit enjoined 23 developing countries to craft a new model to mobilise and accelerate investment in clean energy.

The Director, Global Green Bank Development, CGC, Andrea Colnes, noted, “For countries to have better access climate finance and fully engage the private sector, the climate finance system must reorient toward national financial capacity that is able to channel capital to projects and markets where it is needed most.”

When paired with effective grant programmes through National Climate Change Funds and strong enabling environments and policies, locally-based Green Banks were powerful tools to address market needs, understand local risk and drive private investment.

The bank’s Director for Climate Change and Green Growth, Dr Anthony Nyong, welcomed the collaboration.

He said, “Green financing vehicles are increasingly recognised as a powerful instrument to mobilise private sector capital for low carbon and climate resilient development. Their ability to access even limited amounts of local currency finance presents significant opportunities to manage risk, attract concessional finance from climate funds and crowd in private sector finance.

“We are excited to work with the team from CGC and look forward to presenting progress reports at the Green Bank Summit in 2020 and COP26,” he added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]