Investors advocate increased funding for social projects
Anna Okon

Investors have called for an increased access to intervention funds to bridge the huge funding gaps for social projects.

They made this call in Lagos during the 2019 Impact Investors Foundation forum themed ‘Blending Finance for Social Investment in Nigeria: Opportunities and Challenges.’

While speaking at the forum, the President and Chief Executive Officer, Calvert Impact Capital, Jennifer Pryce, stated that impact investment would focus more on creating an enabling environment for businesses to thrive.

She said, “We will blend resources together and utilise them with financial inclusion.

‘’We will create the comfortable ecosystem for businesses to thrive in the country while also ensuring return on investment.

Also speaking, the governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Commissioner for Commerce, Industry and Cooperative, Mrs Lola Akande, noted that achieving the Sustainable Development Goals was paramount to the all-round development of Nigeria.

He said the theme of the forum aligned with the developmental agenda of his administration which is focused on making Lagos State the 21st century economy through provision of an enabling environment for enterprises to thrive.

He added that the statistics from the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation indicated that financial requirement to achieve the SDG was about $34bn per annum.

He said Nigeria’s total budget for 2018 was $29.9bn with education accounting for just seven per cent of the amount.

According to him, this implies that if Nigeria depends solely on using public resources to fund the budget and national project, there will be a huge financial gap that would be more than its annual total budget.

Sanwo-Olu admitted that there was a need for significant scale up of investment, especially in the areas with high prospects for social impact adding that the total worth of deals recorded in 2018 from blending finance was $238m which is very small compared to the scale of needs and financing gaps to be addressed in the country.

He said, “While blending finance has been presented as an important approach in engaging the private sector for financing the gap in SDG, its efficiency in solving our funding gap issue is being undermined by myriads of challenges.

‘’Undoubtedly, private sector investment is the key to attaining Sustainable Development Goals in Nigeria.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]