Stakeholders make fresh case for national carrier
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

stakeholders have asked the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, to renew the national carrier project to meet the air travel needs of Nigerians.

Some of the stakeholders who spoke with our correspondent said a national carrier would address some of the problems in the industry such as training.

They noted that a national carrier would also help to position Nigeria as the aviation hub for West Africa in line with the country’s rising annual passenger traffic.

Aviation analyst, Mr Chris Aligbe, said many other African countries that realised the importance of a national carrier had floated such airlines.

“Uganda has started; by December, Ghana will float its national carrier. People say it is an outdated idea but it is not. What is outdated is 100 per cent equity holding by the government. A carrier that the government facilitates and controls five per cent equity to give a sovereign cover is what we need,” he said.

He stated that no matter the number of domestic airlines or foreign airlines operating in the country, only a national carrier had the capacity to create a hub for Nigeria.

Aligbe added, “There is no private airline that has the capacity to respond appropriately to the bilateral agreements that Nigeria has and we need at least three airlines to meet up with the competition.

“We need formidable airlines; the airlines we have cannot respond to the growing need of air travellers in the country.”

Sirika, just before his return as minister for a second tenure, had stated that he would revisit the national carrier project.

The minister said a vibrant private sector-led national carrier would be good for the economy of Nigeria as well as its population, centrality, wealth and fortune.

He said, “One airplane in Nigeria is equal to 300 direct jobs to start with. The relationship between the Gross Domestic Product and air transportation is direct and we have the biggest GDP in Africa.

“By the United States estimation, we have a trillion dollar GDP. By official figures of the National Bureau of Statistics, we have half a trillion dollar GDP. We are at the centre of the world. We are highly mobile travelling people and this is why the prices of tickets are expensive.”

The Chief Executive Officer, African Aviation Services Limited, Mr Nick Fadugba, said since the liquidation of Nigeria Airways, there had been no airline to reciprocate the Bilateral Air Service Agreements.

He said it had become important to review the set-up of the industry, adding that all airlines in Nigeria had been complaining that the system was not in the interest of the country.

Fadugba however stated that in setting up a national carrier, it should not be done to the disadvantage of private domestic carriers.

According to an aviation security expert, Group Capt. John Ojikutu (retd), the national carrier must be fully private sector-driven.

He said the federal and state governments should have 10 per cent equity; the Nigerian public should have 30 per cent through the Nigerian Stock Exchange while the investors and technical partners should have 20 per cent and 40 per cent, respectively.

Ojikutu said the government must also revalue its investment in the industry before establishing a national carrier, adding that this would help the country to compete with its contemporaries globally.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]