What to know about fixed deposit
Investing is a way to grow your money and achieve lucrative financial goals in time. Choosing the right investment product is crucial to ensuring the success of your venture.

Fixed deposits are considered a secure, safe and convenient way of capitalising on extra cash you have, which you will not use in the next few months or years, according to www.gobear.com.

Fixed deposits come with different promotions for depositors to grab and maximise the benefits. As a low-risk investment, fixed deposit accounts are recommended to those who have the chance to set aside a certain amount of money within a specific period.

What is fixed deposit?

Fixed deposit is a form of investment facility offered by financial companies that provide interest within a fixed tenure. Also called time deposit or term deposit, fixed deposit accounts allow you to put your savings for a set amount of time without touching it. The longer you promise to leave your money in the bank, the higher the interest rate you will get.

Most people opt for this type of investment because it comes with higher interest rate making their savings grow more significantly over time at relatively lower risk. FDs are often considered as safe options because they guarantee returns which will not be affected by market fluctuations.

What are the types of fixed deposit?

FDs come in various types to cater to the different needs of an investor. Depending on the features, you may either get higher or lower interest earnings. Here are a few types you can opt for:

What are long term and short term fixed deposits?

FD investments are categorised according to the length by which your money will be held in the bank. In general, depositors earn higher interest rates once they choose to set their money in their accounts for a longer period.

Short-term FD: Short-term deposits are investments in less than a year. Sometimes the range can even be as short as 30 days. People who have extra cash for diminutive duration can open a fixed deposit account that can earn them better interest rates. The primary objectives of short-term deposits are flexibility and the opportunity to achieve quick-saving ends.

Long-term FD – Long-term fixed deposits usually range from 12 months to three years. Those who do not need their funds in a near-term can choose to open an FD account that can pay higher interest rates compared to savings accounts.

When choosing between short-term or long-term fixed deposit, consider the fact that banks require a minimum deposit amount depending on the length of term you want.

Fixed deposit versus savings account

Fixed deposit and savings account can certainly help you save and earn at the same time. Both facilities allow you to commit a certain amount in the bank that will grow due to interest repayments. For those who are still confused about these two financial products, here are a few differences you should note:

FDs can save you from spending due to its lock-up period bounded by terms and conditions. On the other hand, the money on your savings account can be accessed in times of emergencies or as needed.

Savings accounts pave way for making compounded interest – you get to earn from your investment, while FD interests are generated after the term of maturity.

Fixed deposit interest rates are consistent from the beginning up to the end of the term. Savings accounts official cash rate can affect your earnings.

Choosing between FD and savings account is not at all difficult if you have set your goals and you are aware of your financial conditions. The ability to create a compelling budget plan can help you decide whether you invest on term deposits or you just want to set aside some money in a savings account which is accessible anytime or in case of emergencies.

Can I top up the fixed deposit amount?

Once you have decided how long you would want your money untapped and which type of fixed deposit account you want to have, you can no longer add or withdraw the amount you deposited. This means that your investment will be locked up with the bank for the duration you chose.

You can’t top up your fixed deposit account until you reach your set date. But what you can do is open another fixed deposit account with the bank with your new funds. You can also check out other bank offers and promotions and open a new FD account to grab the best benefits at hand.

How does the bank calculate the interest return on a fixed deposit?

The interest rate is one of the primary factors that help you decide which fixed deposit type and bank to choose. Banks multiply your deposit amount by your interest rate and then by how long you are keeping the money in the bank, so to get the interest return.

How do I apply for a fixed deposit account?

Applying for a fixed deposit account can be done by visiting a branch of the bank of your choice or through online means.

Branch: If you like to do things the old-fashioned way, make an appointment at your local branch, then show up with your deposit (cash or cheque) and your required documents.

A bank can refuse application for FD account opening if the currency to be used is not acceptable, the payee’s name is not the same as the account name or the cheques and other payment instrument belongs to someone else other than the applicant.

What happens once my fixed time is up?

You can give your bank some instructions when you make the deposit (or any time before the term is up) and tell them what you want to do when the fixed period ends. You can ask them to:

Rollover your deposit and the interest you accrued.

Withdraw your deposit and the interest you accrued.

Rollover your deposit but withdraw the interest you accrued.

If you don’t tell the bank what you want to do with your money once your fixed time is up, the bank may automatically renew your fixed deposit for a similar period at the current market rate for a deposit of that amount and time.