We’re ready to accommodate opposition group —Lagos RTEAN
Anna Okon

the Road Transport Employers’ Association of Nigeria, Lagos State Chapter, has said it is willing to accommodate and reconcile with opposition group challenging its current executive members.

The Chairman of RTEAN, Alhaji Mohammed Musa, said this to journalists in Lagos after the state executive meeting.

Musa stated that the development was sequel to the directive of the Lagos State Government and the union’s interest to maintain peace.

The association’s trouble started with an opposition of the extension of Musa’s tenure by seven out of its 53 state executive council members.

The state Deputy Chairman (Administration), Alhaji Suleiman Onabanjo, had led six other executive members against the continuity of Musa’s administration which was earlier passed by all the executive members.

The crisis led to the dissolution of the state executive council by the National President of the union, Mr Eriyo Osakpamwam, who was later sacked and expelled by the National Executive Council of RTEAN.

The crisis got messier as the NEC appointed and confirmed Musa, who was also the National Deputy President (Administration) of RTEAN as the new National President.

Musa said that the “Continuity Group” had met with the Lagos State Government on three different occasions but at the last meeting, the government gave directive that the association should reintegrate the aggrieved members.

He added that the union was ready to accept the aggrieved members into their positions and had given order that they should not be harassed or molested by other members.

He said, “We met on Thursday with the Chief of Staff to the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Commissioner for Transportation, Special Adviser on Transportation, some representatives from the Ministry of Justice, and others.

“The directive by the government is that we should come back home and return the aggrieved members back to their parks and positions.”

He added, “We have complied with this directive today and asked those who are out to come to the state secretariat and that we will take them back to those parks for peace to reign.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]