TheNiche annual lecture to focus on accountable governance
Anna Okon

The former Chief Executive Officer of the Nigeria Economic Summit Group, Prof Anya Anya is set to deliver the second TheNiche annual lecture focused on ingredients for successful business and accountable governance.

The magazine said in a statement that the event would be attended by industry captains, governors, opinion leaders and members of civil society organisations.

Anya will speak on the topic, ‘Business and Accountable Governance: The Obligation of Leadership’, the statement added.

Also, former diplomat, Dr Christopher Kolade, is billed to act as chairman of the event, the paper added.

The statement read in part, “The lecture series is the contribution of TheNiche to a Nigeria of everyone’s dream, an avenue for thinkers and experts to rub minds on the best way to grow the polity and economy.

“TheNiche, published by Acclaim Communications Limited, started the series last year, which also marked the fourth anniversary of the newspaper.”

According to the paper, the 2018 lecture was delivered by the presidential candidate of the Young Progressive Party in the 2019 election, Prof Kingsley Moghalu, while the presidential candidate of the KOWA party in the 2015 elections, Prof Remi Sonaiya, acted as chairman.

The statement quoted the executive editor, TheNiche, Oguwike Nwachuku, as saying that Anya, a professor of biology would stir minds in the debate in line with the paper’s pledge last year to do so.

He added that other dignitaries who had accepted invitation to the lecture include governors, traditional rulers, public servants, captains of industry, the media and others.

“At the event, TheNiche will also recognise some individuals and corporate bodies who have shown commitment to industry, good governance, and accountability in their activities that are in public interest,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]