Increasing the life of your car
With high cost of new vehicles and low purchasing power of many, there are indications that vehicle owners are keeping their automobiles longer than ever.

Auto dealerships also recognise this and they have focused on the after-sale , introducing a number of techniques to encourage people to make their vehicles serve them better and longer.

Autobytel says millions of people won’t have any choice but to drive whatever they are buying today for most of the decade ahead. It is more important than ever to take the best possible care of your vehicle in order to increase your car’s life, it adds.

It offers a number tips on how to keep your vehicle on the road in a perfect condition.

Service your car by the book

Pop open your glove box, and chances are you’ll find a little book in there called an owner’s manual. Take a look at it. It will tell you exactly what the people who designed, engineered, and built your vehicle recommend as far as making it last for as long as possible.

Check and change the oil

What would happen to you if your blood leaked out? The same thing happens to your car if you don’t maintain proper oil levels. Oil is the lubricant that keeps all of the mechanical parts inside your engine working smoothly, and when it gets low, added friction contributes to a car’s early demise.

Beyond that, and unlike the blood flowing through most people, your car’s oil needs to be changed on a regular basis, and the interval is dependent on how you typically drive your car. Look inside your owner’s manual. It will tell you how often you need to change the oil.

Maintain proper fluid levels

Oil is not the only fluid that your vehicle requires to enjoy a long and healthy life. It is also dependent on brake fluid, transmission fluid, power steering fluid, and a mixture of water and coolant to reduce heat. Depending on what kind of car you have, you’ll need to check these fluids regularly, and change them occasionally.

Again, look inside of your owner’s manual for complete details that are specific to the vehicle you own, and how you drive it.