Construct hazard-resistant buildings — NEMA
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

The National Emergency Management Agency on Monday charged operators in the built environment to start constructing buildings that are resistant to hazards.

It also called on investors in Nigeria to begin to integrate disaster-risk reduction into their various investment decisions.

The Director-General, NEMA, Mustapha Maihaja, disclosed this at the 2019 International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction.

He noted that the United Nations had designated the October 13 as the International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction, adding, “but we are marking it today because the day fell on a Sunday.”

Maihaja said, “The day is annually observed to raise the profile of disaster-risk reduction and to encourage people and governments to participate in building more resilient communities. The theme for this year’s celebration is ‘Build to Last’.

“So the theme has captured the essence why we must work towards integrating disaster-risk reduction into investment decisions which is the most cost-effective way to reduce risk.”

He added, “Today, we want to highlight the adoption of hazard-resistant building standards, planning and environmental regulations and the overall strengthening of risk governance through institutions and systems, as well as protect people from the risk of vulnerable infrastructure.”

Maihaja, who was represented by the Director of Finance and Accounts, NEMA, Sunday Hamman, stated that weak implementation and enforcement mechanisms were common problems in countries where most urban development was informal.

“As such, when critical infrastructure fails, businesses experience indirect losses, as production, distribution and supply chains are interrupted,” he noted.

He stated that the recurring disasters and their impact on Nigerians and the environment must serve as a wake-up call to all stakeholders, government at all levels, individuals and the organised private sector.

Maihaja said, “Disaster-risk reduction is everybody’s business; therefore, the need to re-strategise and foster stronger collaboration on principled and effective disaster management remains paramount.”

“Despite the competing demands for resources, we must work together to improve the lives of the vulnerable citizens as well as enhance their resilience.”

He further noted that the United Nations International Strategy for Disaster Reduction stated that there were about $665bn direct economic losses during the past three years due to disasters.

“A considerable proportion of those losses comes from infrastructures failures in high-income countries,” Maihaja stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]