How to retire well without salary
Behind every successful family is a proud man who has the ability to provide and protect his family. If this man is a corporate executive, he earns a consistent amount of income every month. This income is the reason why he can provide for his family and why his family respects him. But a day is coming when this man will lose this income.

If there is no plan in place to replace this income before this day, his ability to provide for his family come under stress. This day that threatens the ability of a man to provide and command the respect of his family is the retirement day.

The retirement day is the day that three things happen to a man. A man loses his ability to earn income, he loses his ability to provide for his family and he loses his ability to remain attractive and admirable. As he enters into retirement, the luxurious life, bragging rights and corporate wealth all disappear. It is at this point that a man begins to question his existence and relevance.

It may be difficult for you at this point in your life to imagine this kind of life. Perhaps your high paying job makes you think that this will not be your own experience. Make no mistakes this kind of life is real in retirement. If you get carried away by your borrowed wealth and fail to put a retirement plan in place, you set yourself up for a lifetime of pain. Even CEOs will fracture in retirement, if they fail to put a retirement plan in place.

If you are a man close to retirement, I have good news and bad news for you. The bad news is your position as the breadwinner and provider of your home will soon come under attack. The good news is there is something you can do about it today and I will show you how.

Over the past 50 years, millions of top executives like you have lost their leadership position in the home to their wives. These Men who were once in charge of their homes are now babies in retirement. You may be thinking to yourself, ‘my pension plan is big enough to help in retirement.’ Let me show you why you should never rely on your pension. In fact, it is the fastest way to lose your position in the home.

The government pension scheme that you hope to retire to has a financial flaw that you need to be aware of.

You contribute 7.5 per cent of your current income while your employer contributes another 7.5 per cent. This brings your total contribution to 15 per cent of your current income per month. What this means is that in retirement you will live on a budget of 15 per cent your current income. That is, you will have to downgrade your current living standard to fit into this 15 per cent budget.

In fact, the reality is you will live below 15 per cent of your current income. Your total contribution over time will be further divided down by 20 or 30 years.

The result of this division is what you will receive as your pension payment every month. Supposing you decide to take the initial lump sum payment, your monthly payment will reduce even further.

The money in your pension account can never give you the same provision power like your current salary. It is only meant to help you get and its true purpose is to protect the government from carrying your burden in retirement.

The government has put the pension plan in place to protect themselves from carrying the burden of old people without a source of income. But this plan only takes care of 15 per cent of your life. Who takes care of the remaining 85 per cent of your life? Without a holistic retirement plan, your experience in retirement will be pretty much the same like all the others before you. Retirement can be a thing to look forward to when you have the right plan in place.

But how exactly can you plan?

First, you need to have a clear picture of what a stress-free retirement looks like to you. Second, you need a concrete plan. What does a perfect retirement life look like to you? What do you need to achieve it? How much money do you want to earn? What do you want to do? How do you want to create your own mark? And so on. Getting this information right is the first key to succeeding in retirement.

Third, you need to make sure your plan contains the three things you must do before retirement. Once you achieve these three things you can face retirement without fears.

To learn more about these three things, send the text “Three things to do before retirement” to 08101860042 for a special free report.

So what else, can I do to help you?

The answer depends on what type of person you are. If you are indifferent, indecisive and need me to push you around before you act, I can’t do a thing for you. If you do not have the required savings to help you bring your retirement plan to life, no one can help you. But if you are a man who is action-oriented, responsible and wants to inspire admiration in retirement, I can help you. I will give you the support and guidance you need to continue a life of relevance, respect and significance beyond your active career years.

Retirement can be a continuation of life and not the beginning of pain. Imagine your life when you have your concrete plan in place. All the anxiety fear and sleepless nights will be gone.

You have invested your whole life making the life of another man work. It is time to make your own life work. If you fail to plan and go into retirement unprepared, you will suffer untold hardship. Worse off is that you will risk the future of your children by putting the weight of caring for you on them. You can stop all that now.

It is either you get a plan now that you see the opportunity or wait until you feel the heat.

Grace Agada is a provocative truth-telling wealth advisor, author of the Solid Wealth Book, a multi-millionaire entrepreneur, consultant and coach to an exclusive list of private Investors and entrepreneurial clients running businesses from $1m to $1bn in size. Grace can help you create solid wealth and make your wealth irreversible across many generations.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]