Firm to feed 10,000 poor Lagos residents
Samuel Awoyinfa

TGI Distri Limited says it will feed 10,000 underprivileged people across the city of Lagos under its Terra Cares4Naija initiative.

This, the company said, was in commemoration of this year’s World Food Day.

The company, which markets and distributes all products of Tropical General Investments Group companies, said the programme where food would be distributed free to the underprivileged would hold in about 10 locations, starting from Wednesday till the Yuletide.

Managing Director of TGI Distri Limited, Mr Sunil Sawhney, said the Terra Cares4Naija initiative was a way to reciprocate the overwhelming love and affection received by Terra Cubes& Big Bull Rice since inception, adding that this had motivated the company to offer to feed Nigerians free.

“Our products are made by Nigerians for Nigerians and in Nigeria. Our watchwords are Food, Care and Love. From the 16th October till Christmas, we will provide nutritious meals to over 10,000 underprivileged Nigerians across the city of Lagos for 10 weeks.

“We will be sharing food at Makoko, Ikeja, Agege, Ikorodu, and Yaba, among others. This is to ensure food security and fight hunger and malnutrition,” Sawhney said.

Quoting the United Nations, he said it had been reported that more than one billion people were undernourished globally, adding that malnutrition should be blamed for one-third of child mortality.

“This year, the World Food Day theme calls for action to make healthy and sustainable diets affordable and accessible to everyone.

“Terra Seasoning Cubes, your trusted cooking partner, and Big Bull Rice, the locally produced premium quality parboiled Rice, are together taking up this initiative towards making a difference in the lives of deserving fellow Nigeriansby providing free nutritious food to the 1000+ people, every Saturday for 10 weeks.”

The Marketing Manager, Mr Govind Agarwal, TGI Distri stated, “The TerraCares4Naija initiative is true to the values which make Tropical General Investments Group, a responsible business entity in Nigeria. Through the Terra Cares4Naija initiative, we aim to put smiles on the faces of over 10,000 fellow Nigerians.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]