Mining still ongoing in Zamfara despite FG ban
Ihuoma Chiedozie, Abuja

Mining is still ongoing in parts of Zamfara State despite the ban placed on the activity in the state by the Federal Government, The PUNCH has learnt.

The Federal Government on April 7, 2019 stopped mining activities in the state in a bid to end the high-level banditry in the gold-producing communities.

The ban was announced by the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu.

However, our correspondent gathered that gold mining had remained a thriving venture in parts of the state, particularly in some communities in the Anka Local Government Area of the state.

The communities, it was leant, included Bagega, Funke and Abare.

Representatives of some Zamfara communities, who attended a meeting of the Federation of Nigerian Mining Host Communities in Abuja, disclosed the development to our correspondent.

A Gusau-based activist, Adamu Kotorkoshi of the Centre for Community Excellence, who also confirmed the development, said the security agencies were not able to enforce the ban due to the remote nature of most of the mining companies.

“Mining has been banned in Zamfara State as a result of security issues but it is continuing. The Federal Government cannot enforce the ban because most of the mining communities are not accessible even for the security agencies,” he told our correspondent.

According to him, the abundant gold deposits in Zamfara are being exploited by two categories of miners – multinational mining companies largely staffed by expatriates, and the local/artisanal miners.

Kotorkoshi explained that artisanal miners, who were hitherto subdued by the multinational mining companies, were able to evade the restrictions imposed by the Federal Government.

“These artisanal miners do not have a specific mining site; they move from one location to another. The Ministry of Mines and Steel Development and the security agencies don’t know where they are.

“Most of them are members of the communities and the security agencies cannot get to where they are to stop them from engaging in mining,” he added.

Our correspondent further gathered that the absence of a specified period the ban would last had pushed the miners to seek desperate ways to engage in the activity.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]