DMO lists N15bn Green Bond on NSE
Feyisayo Popoola

The Debt Management Office has listed a N15bn Green Bond on the Nigerian Stock Exchange.

The NSE said it listed the N15bn bond on its daily official list on Monday.

This follows the debut of N10.69bn Green Bond, which was issued by the DMO in December 2017 and listed on the NSE in July 2018.

It said the seven-year Green Bond was issued at coupon rate of 14.50 per cent and due to mature on June 13, 2026.

It added that the series II Green Bond was issued to finance renewable energy, afforestation, and transportation projects.

The Head, Trading Business Division, NSE, Mr Jude Chiemeka, while commenting on the listing, said the NSE was pleased to admit the series II FGN Green Bond to its green and sustainable bond market.

He said, “Our collaboration with the Ministry of Environment and the DMO on deepening the Green Bond market, which dates back to 2016, reinforces the Exchange’s commitment to position Nigeria as a financial centre for green and sustainable financing.

“The recent partnership with the Luxembourg Stock Exchange further demonstrates NSE’s passion to provide enabling environment for issuers and investors in the Nigerian capital market.”

Chiemeka added that the NSE would continue to work with key stakeholders in transitioning to a low-carbon and sustainable economy, as well as develop innovative products and services in collaboration with the market.

He congratulated the Minister of Environment and the management of the DMO on the successful issuance of a second Green Bond, describing it as a laudable feat in addressing environmental challenges and fostering sustainable financing in Nigeria.

According to him, Nigeria’s participation in the Green bond market is in line with the Federal Government’s commitment to achieving its Nationally Determined Contributions under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which was signed in September 2016.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]