BPP trains MDAs in preparing procurement records
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

The Bureau of Public Procurement is training procurement officers from Ministries Departments and Agencies on the use of Nigeria Open Contract portal in preparing procurement plans and records.

BPP’s, Director-General, Mamman Ahmadu, who opened the four-day training in Abuja on Monday, said the portal was designed to enhance transparency, accountability and increased citizens participation in the country’s procurement process.

He said, “The bureau in utilising improvements in modern technology developed NOCOPO portal which would ensure improved transparency, competition and accountability.

“It will prevent corruption and enhance active citizen participation in procurement, thereby ensuring better service delivery and improved ease of doing business.”

He said the technical sessions and group discussions at the workshop were expected to educate participants on all the steps in creating procurement plans and records.

Ahmadu said, “It is expected that at the end of the workshop, participants will be well equipped and can prepare and submit procurement plans and records in line with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, 2007.”

The Director, Regulations, Database and Information Communication Technology, BPP, Aliyu Aliyu, said there was a need for government agencies to key into the portal with a view to transit from submitting procurement plans through excel sheets to the use of modern technology.

According to Aliyu, the days of submitting procurement plans and records through excel sheets were over.

He said, “This portal is the driver of open government partnership, which is a partnership between government and the civil society.

“Essentially, we are trying to make everything transparent so that everything the MDAs are doing could be seen by the citizens.

“So people can visit the portal and see that what is there is actually what the MDAs are doing.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]