UN Habitat, LASG propose technology to tackle waste
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The United Nations Habitat and the Lagos State Government have said that technology could help to address waste disposal challenges.

At the 2019 World Habitat Day, the Executive Director, UN-Habitat, Maimunat Sharif, stated that by rethinking the entire waste management cycle, the world could resolve not only the challenges of inadequate waste management but also create employment and promote economic growth.

Sharif said the biggest impact would come from changing the way waste is generated and reducing the amount produced through reusing and recycling.

The executive director, who was represented by the National Programme Officer, UN-HABITAT, Paul Okunlola, at the event, said the world had the power and responsibility to shape the future of cities and towns.

The 2019 World Habitat Day had as its theme, ‘Frontier technology as innovative tool to transform waste to wealth’.

The Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said that the theme of the World Habitat Day was apt for the state government as it had started making efforts towards solving the challenges of waste management.

He said, “The task ahead is to harness frontier technologies to achieve sustainable development, while mitigating their adverse economic, social and political consequences.

“Without any doubt, the place of technology and best practices in ensuring effective and efficient waste management in a mega city like our cannot be overemphasised.”

Speaking through the Deputy Governor, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, the governor said effective management of waste was a global priority, and that it was important to view waste as a valuable resource that could be turned to wealth through technology.

The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako, said Lagos State had continued to blaze the trail in innovative approaches to urban management, not limited to the waste sector.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]