Old Mutual rewards customers for patronage
Nike Popoola

Old Mutual General Insurance Company, a subsidiary of Old Mutual Limited, says it has introduced its campaign tagged ‘Double Awoof’, to reward its comprehensive motor insurance policy holders.

A statement from the company said the campaign which would continue till November ending was part of its resolve to deepen market penetration.

The company said, “The loyalty programme which rewards policyholders by slashing the cost of procuring comprehensive motor insurance cover to 2.5 per cent on vehicles; then double the reward with an instant gift of a Total Service Station’s fuel voucher of up to N30,000.

“For vehicle owner whose car is valued at N2m, the instant fuel voucher is N5,000 to keep them moving during the ‘ember months.’ This is an addition to the 25 per cent discount of the premium.

“Similarly, a car owner whose vehicle is valued at N3m and above gets an instant N10,000 fuel voucher, while car owners with cars worth N20m and above get an instant fuel voucher worth N30,000 when they buy the insurance product during the loyalty campaign period which lasts till November 8, 2019.”

The Executive Head, Marketing, Old Mutual, Alero Ladipo, said the brand’s move to reward its growing customer base was borne out of its firm commitment to the Nigerian insurance market.

She said, “We understand the importance of comprehensive car insurance to Nigerians, especially during the last quarter of the year, when there is a spike in travel activities, heightened insecurity and other associated risks.

“While we believe it is critical for everyone to buy an insurance policy for their cars, we also consider it thoughtful to give back to policyholders who buy our comprehensive motor insurance policy. So, it is really about buying a great product at a discount and getting rewarded at the same time.

“When a customer gets an instant reward for purchasing a reliable product, you brighten the day for that customer. We are keen to get our customers moving no matter the circumstance they find themselves.”

“Today, we are fuelling and filling the tanks of our customers, tomorrow we could be gifting an unimaginable reward,” she added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]