Baobab MfB disburses N55bn loans in 10 years
Nike Popoola

The Chief Executive Officer, Baobab Micro Finance Bank Limited, Dr Kazeem Olanrewaju, says the bank made significant contribution to the Nigerians economy and disbursed over N55bn loans since it commenced business 10 years ago.

Olanrewaju disclosed this during the bank’s 10th anniversary dinner in Lagos.

He said over 100,000 customers had enjoyed one form of loan or the other from Baobab.

The chief executive officer said, “Our disbursement is in excess of N55bn. Today, we have outstanding loan customers, people who still have our money with them, about 23,000 plus and our outstanding loans about N9bn.

“On the average every month, we disburse N1.7bn to N2bn, so this year, we have disbursed over N15bn and we target to disburse about N30bn. We still have about four months to go, so this is the story, from a humble background of one branch to now 20; less than 1,000 customers to well over 300,000 customers.

“I can also tell you that customer confidence in the bank has grown. I remember about five years ago, total deposit in the bank was about N200m, today; we are talking about N4bn and we are still counting. I can tell you that in the last two years, our deposit has been on the increase. There is no month we will have a deposit less than the previous month.”

He added, “For me, this is an acceptance from the public, anybody can come to you to borrow money, but not everyone can trust you to the extent that they will give you that kind of deposit. I will expect that before the end of the year, our deposit should grow by N5bn to N6bn and maybe our loan should be about N12bn. That will mean at 50 per cent coverage; the ultimate thing is to have 100 per cent coverage.”

The Group Chief Executive Officer, Baobab Group, Phillip Sigwart said the group intended to build a strong bank in Nigeria to serve small businesses because it was the sector that created more jobs and drive the economy.

Nigeria could not always depend on oil to drive the economy because the sector did not create jobs, he added.

He disclosed that the Baobab Group would also explore opportunities in other African countries like Ghana and East Africa.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]