Expert advises institutions on poverty eradication
Nike Popoola

It is important for institutions to introduce innovative measures and ensure skills development that would help to eradicate poverty in the society.

The Managing Director, SystemSpecs, John Obaro, said this during the sixth public lecture organised by the Foursquare Gospel Church in Lagos.

Obaro, who was one of the panelists for the lecture with the theme, ‘Eradicating poverty in Nigeria: The role of The church, entrepreneurs and government’, expressed dissatisfaction at the fact that despite the high automobile consumption rate of Nigerians, car manufacturers had not deemed it fit to assemble cars in Nigeria.

He said, ““On February 2nd, 2019, French automaker, Renault, announced that they were establishing an assembling plant in Ghana. March 22, 2019, Japanese automaker, Suzuki revealed that they were setting up a production unit in Ghana. Nissan Motors on March 23rd unveiled its plans to open an assembling plant by 2022 that would have the capacity to produce 50,000 to 60,000 vehicles annually in Ghana.

“Recently, Toyota crowned it all by announcing that it would start assembling vehicles in Ghana by August next year. Nigeria is the highest consumer of automobile in Africa – both old and new –why then are cars not assembled here?”

While asserting that education was undoubtedly needed if the country must move past this deteriorating state, he frowned on the manner and approach the government adopted in inculcating knowledge.

He said, “I understand that today, for secondary schools to get accreditation to teach business studies, the students must own typewriters. I mean if we are still teaching our youths how to use typewriters when the whole world is moving towards robots and then you want to complain that there are no jobs and there is poverty? It is a no-brainer. I think it is time we began to look inwards.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]