EU recommends renewable energy to combat climate change
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

With the rapid growth in Nigeria’s population, there are increasing calls for more investment in clean energy sources for its citizens.

Nigeria is listed among the top 10 countries of the world in the climate change vulnerability index and is currently being impacted by climate change.

As one of the steps towards mitigating these effects, there should be more focus on renewable energy, the European Union said.

The EU is of the opinion that the integration of renewable energy into the global energy mix with its zero carbon emission will save the planet as against the current dependence on fossil-based energy sources and their associated adverse environmental and health effects.

The EU said there were plans to help Nigeria boost renewable energy and make it more accessible to the citizens.

The Head of the EU Delegation to Nigeria and the Economic Community of West African States, Ketil Karlsen, said there must be a conscious effort to put the concept of renewable energy on the front burner of national issues in Nigeria.

He said, “We need to put spotlight on renewable energy, which is very important. In Nigeria, you already have a population of 200 million people of which 80 million do not have access to stable energy. Already, there is so much to do to have energy; without affordable energy, businesses will not be competitive; they will not be able to compete with other countries.

“We need to take this matter of climate change seriously. It is not only for government but for the individuals, businesses and communities to take part and ensure clean energy for everyone. We can’t just leave it for politicians to solve all the problems for us; we need to contribute.”

He explained that hydro, wind and solar forms of energy were getting more efficient with new technologies but people must be made to see real business opportunities for Nigerians in the renewable energy value chain rather than importing all the expertise.

Based on this, Karlsen said the EU would continue to support all efforts towards ensuring that Nigeria met its target of 30 per cent renewable energy in its energy mix by 2030, by supporting renewable energy entrepreneurs.

He said the union was enabling communities in Nigeria to harness solar power to generate renewable energy, adding that the EU had set aside €165m for intervention in the energy sector to improve access to over 90 million Nigerians and business owners without access to energy.

According to him, the EU has committed more than €700m grant since 2014 to the energy sector in West Africa and has allocated €150m to boost electricity supply in Nigeria with a focus on green and renewable energy.

He said the projects currently being undertaken by the EU included the Nigeria Energy Support Programme implemented by GIZ to install six solar mini-grids in the first phase. This would include the 85KWP solar hybrid mini-grid in Gbamu-Gbamu village in the Ijebu East Local Government Area of Ogun State.

Karlsen said the EU was also supporting the construction of a transmission line for Katsina 34 megawatts solar plant, being implemented by Pan-Africa Private Infrastructure Development Group and the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority with a €4m grant.

The TCN Northern Corridor project implemented by the French Development Agency with the EU was also given a €25m grant support, he said.

Other projects include SUNREF, a green credit line to support the financing of renewable energy through local commercial banks and ‘Electrifi’ project, which is an innovative financing instrument for financing off-grid projects among many others.

“There are also projects under preparation for waste to energy which will see the EU invest about €10m in Ogun State, among other projects in the pipeline,” he added.

He explained that the EU is also scaling up the DFID implemented Solar Nigeria with a grant of €30m to provide electricity access to public health and education facilities across 33 sites in Kano, Kaduna and Adamawa states

According to Karlsen, renewable energy is expensive but generating energy through generators is not competitive.Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]