N262bn construction budget impressive but inadequate – Experts
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Experts in the construction industry have described the Federal Government’s proposed allocation to works and housing in the 2020 budget as impressive but inadequate to address the problems in the sector.

Those who spoke to The PUNCH said roads and other infrastructure in the country were in dire need of attention and that the proposed N262bn might be just a scratch on the surface of the projects.

The Ministry of Works and Housing got the highest projected allocation of N262bn from the N10. 33tn budget estimates presented by President Muhammadu Buhari to a joint session of the National Assembly last week.

The President, Nigerian Society of Engineers, Mr Kunle Mokuolu, said it was a good attempt but that if government really planned to follow its programme, it should try more ways of funding projects across the country.

“I don’t think it is enough to pay contractors,” he said.

A former National Publicity Secretary of the Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors, Mr Jide Oke, said increasing allocation to works and housing showed that the much-awaited revolution in the sector was near.

He said, “Works and housing are critical areas in our nation, especially works. This country is in dire need of a revolution in that sector. All our roads are in dire need of repairs.

“Look at the Lagos/Ibadan Expressway, work has been ongoing there for over five years and the problem has always been funding; same with others across the country.”

Oke however advised the government not to engage in housing projects but rather encourage and empower the private sector to handle it.

He said, “If you ask me, I will tell you that government has no business in housing. It should rather focus on road and infrastructure. Except we are talking about public buildings; government has no business building houses.

“There is no need for the government to dabble into housing; it should rather create an enabling environment for the private sector and channel its energy into supervising infrastructure projects. The private sector is in a position to build houses as it is done in other countries.”

According to him, the unfinished housing projects across states and other low-quality houses show that housing provision should not be handled by the government.

Oke stated that if properly implemented, the 2020 budget could help to revive the sector, which he said had remained in recession for over two years.

He however urged the Federal Government to engage relevant and local professionals in its infrastructure projects in order to empower them.

Mokuolu also stated that foreign input in infrastructure development across the country had become worrisome.

He said the Federal Government should create an enabling environment for more indigenous contractors to handle projects.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]