National Assembly members monitor verification of 11,335 pensioners
Nike Popoola

Some members of the National Assembly who monitored the verification of parastatal pensioners in the North- West by the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate have expressed support for the directorate.

A statement said 11,335 parastatal pensioners were verified during the two-week exercise in the North-West region, with four centres located in Kaduna, Kano and Sokoto.

The breakdown of the numbers verified showed Kaduna Centre 1 had the highest number of 4,073 followed by Kaduna Centre 2 with 3, 170 pensioners; Kano Centre had 2,739; and Sokoto Centre had 1,353.

PTAD stated that the National Assembly members were at the verification centres to monitor the exercise.

The statement said, “The Senate Committee Chairman on Establishment and Public Service, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau was at the Kano centre; House Committee Chairman on Pensions, Kabiru Alhassan Rurum, was at the Kano and Kaduna centres; Deputy Chairman, Senate Committee on Establishment and Public Service, Senator Mpigi Barinada, was at the Kaduna centre; Deputy Chairman, House committee on Pensions, Bamidele Salam, was at the Sokoto centre.

They gave PTAD excellent remarks and promised to support the directorate with necessary appropriation.

The Executive Secretary, PTAD, Dr Chioma Ejikeme appreciated members of the National Assembly for their support for the senior citizens and PTAD.

The directorate said the next phase of the verification exercise was scheduled for Ilorin, Minna, Jos and Lokoja in the North Central zone from Monday, October 21, 2019.

It stated, “Pensioners should note that they need not travel to the state they retired from to be verified. They can be verified in any of the centres in the zone where they currently reside.

“They do not need to be anxious about being verified as the directorate has the capacity to verify all pensioners who present themselves for the verification within the period slated for the exercise.”

It stated that the on-going exercise was strictly for parastatal pensioners and did not include Customs, Immigration, Prisons, Civil Service, Police pensioner and others that had already been verified.

.Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]