Host communities demand reform of mining laws
Ihuoma Chiedozie, Abuja

Solid minerals producing communities under the aegis of the Federation of Nigerian Mining Host Communities are demanding a review of laws that regulate the mining sector.

Representatives of the mining host communities from various parts of the country made the call at a meeting, which was convened by Global Rights in Abuja.

A communiqué issued after the meeting noted that the current mining laws “are in need of reforms in order to guarantee adequate protection of mining host communities across Nigeria.”

“While mining holds the potential of prospering the host communities when done in a sustainable manner, Nigeria’s extractive industry is fraught with numerous problems including fiscal injustice, environmental degradation, abandoned open mining pits and security challenges,” the group added.

Other problems adversely affecting the mining sector, according to the federation, are water and air pollution, negative impact of traditional means of livelihood and destruction of the ecosystem.

The host communities observed that the problems had been exacerbated by gaps in the mining laws; failure of investors to comply with regulations and the inability of the government to coordinate the sector.

“Corruption, poverty and lack of effective monitoring of mining activities have put the environment and the health of the people in jeopardy,” they further stated.

Representatives of mining communities from Ebonyi, Gombe, Kogi, Nasarawa, Niger, Ogun, Osun, Plateau, Taraba and Zamfara states reported the shrinking of fresh water resources in their areas.

The group said the development was assuming a crisis dimension in most of the communities, and called on the Federal Government to take urgent measures to mitigate the development.

The communities further demanded that their rights must be protected in the process of issuing licences for mining.

In the same vein, the communities called for legal provisions for artisanal mining.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]