NFIS ranks insurers low in bancassurance performance
Nike Popoola

Insurance industry did not make significant improvement in its drive to deepen financial inclusion through the bancassurance model in the country in 2018, according to the National Financial Inclusion Strategy.

The National Financial Inclusion Strategy which was introduced in 2012, aims to reduce the percentage of adult Nigerians who do not have access to financial services from 46.3 per cent in 2010 to 20 per cent in 2020.

“Implementation of the bancassurance model did not record much traction in 2018,” part of the report on the insurance sector read.

It stated that the insurance sector’s gross premium grew by 13.3 per cent to N421.2bn as of end- December 2018, compared with N371.8bn in 2017.

Within the sector, growth in gross premium was witnessed in both sub-sectors, which comprised non-life (general) and life insurance.

The gross premium in the non-life sub-sector grew by 16.5 per cent, while the life sub-sector grew by 9.1 per cent during the review year.

The respective shares of the non-life and life gross premium of the total industry’s gross premium amounted to at 58.3 and 41.7 per cent, respectively, in 2018.

In terms of claims settled by insurance companies during the year, it stated, the companies paid out claims worth N194.3bn in 2018, compared to N186.5bn paid out in 2017.

This represented a growth of 4.2 per cent, compared to the rate recorded in 2017.

The marginal growth recorded during the period was attributed to the lag effects of the economic downturn that accompanied the recession, which ended the preceding year, as well as, increased penetration of the insurance industry driven by increased insurance products and financial inclusion.

The NFIS stated that Nigeria’s informal sector was huge, accounting for over 65 per cent of the country’s gross domestic product.

People who were employed in this sector operated in an environment relatively free of regulation.

In some cases, self-regulation by apex associations of the operators remained the norm.

The report revealed that the informal sector employed the largest proportion of the labour force in Nigeria.

Micro and small businesses such as dress makers, hair dressers, shoe cobblers, small scale traders, car wash services and a host of other services were provided by the informal sector.

.Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]