Okonjo-Iweala, Twitter CEO advise youths on job creation
Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja

A former Minister of Finance, Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, and the co-founder/ Chief Executive Officer of Twitter, Jack Dorsey, have called on Nigerian youths to leverage technology to reduce the level of unemployment in the country.

They said that with the current rate of unemployment in the country, time had come for the youth to focus on how to create jobs rather than relying on paid employment.

They spoke on Monday in Abuja during a visit by the Twitter CEO to the African University of Science and Technology.

Okonjo-Iweala called on the youth to focus more attention on entrepreneurship.

The National Bureau of Statistics had in the last quarter of 2018 stated that the number of Nigerians without jobs stood at 20.9 million.

But Okonjo-Iweala, who is also the Chairman, Board of Trustees, AUST, said that technology had provided a huge platform for the youth to create jobs for themaelve and others.

The former finance minister, who was instrumental to the visit of the Twitter boss to the school, said, “Dorsey told them (students of the school) that he was interested in entrepreneurship, not just using Twitter as a platform but also using it to spur entrepreneurship among young people.

“They can use it as a platform to create jobs and we actually heard examples of young Nigerians doing two or three things using Twitter.

“Dorsey believes that Twitter serves as a platform for young people to create jobs for themselves and others. This can have huge impact and that’s why we wanted him to come to Nigeria.”

In his comments at the event, Dorsey said that Twitter had created a platform not only for people to be heard but for them to explore the immense potential in technological innovation.

He said over the last 13 years, the company had been coming with innovative solutions on its services.

The Chair, Governing Council, AUST, Prof Oye Ibidapo-Obe, described the unemployment rate in the country as alarming.

He said, “What is important to us and even the government is youth employment. The rate is so high that if we don’t do something quickly, we are going to get into trouble and the best platform is technology.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]