Running business in Lagos not for faint-hearted– Affah
Ellena Affah, 24, the CEO of Natural Hair Rocks, talks to TOLUWALOPE KAREEM about her life as a young entrepreneur

What is your educational background?

I have a Bachelor’s degree in Creative Arts, with a major in Theatre Arts, from the University of Lagos.

How did you come about hair styling?

I have always loved styling hair since I was a little girl, so I knew it was something I would find fulfilment doing. I would say it’s a talent, but at the same time, I learnt some aspects of it.

My inspiration to start the business was the inability to access natural hair salons back in school and restricted protective styling options for naturals.

What services does your brand offer?

Natural Hair Rocks is a brand built to offer a completely personalised service to the hair and beauty needs of women across the globe. We believe that every woman’s sense of identity should be secure in her love and understanding of her herself.

How long have you been in business?

We clocked three this year.

What has been the major highlight of the business so far?

To be honest, there’s no event I have attended in Lagos where I didn’t see someone wearing one of our Afro-centric units. I remember one time I was at a fashion show and I spotted over 10 women wearing our units, and that for me, is a major highlight.

What are the major challenges you have faced over the years?

Running a business in Lagos is not for the faint-hearted. There have been so many challenges over the years, but in the early stages of the business, it was getting people to trust the brand. However, that is all in the past now, to the glory of God.

Do you have plans to someday seek paid employment?

No, I do not have any plans for that. My business is handful already.

What is your recipe for success?

My recipe for success has always been grace of God, patience, hard work, and consistency. I have always kept on pushing, even when no one was clapping, because I knew that one day, it would all make sense.

Where do you see your business in the next five years?

In the next five years, by God’s grace, I see NHR being Africa’s number one protective styling company.

How profitable is the business

It is quite profitable if one knows one’s onions.

What advice do you have for other entrepreneurs who are just starting?

Being an entrepreneur and starting newly isn’t easy and it could be challenging. But, it is important to always be yourself, and don’t get into something because you feel someone else is doing well in it. Also, if you start any project or endeavour, make sure you give it your best!!

What do you do for leisure?

Work can be stressful, so at my leisure, I love to relax. I do a lot of resting.

What are your hobbies?

I love trying out new restaurants/new food. I also love to travel and watch hair tutorials too.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]