Excavation machine damages TCN’s underground transmission lines
Okechukwu Nnodim

The Transmission Company of Nigeria has said that one of its 132kV underground transmission lines was damaged by an excavation machine working for IBB Golf Club, Abuja.

It said the incident made TCN to transmit bulk electricity meant for the Central Area, Maitama, Utako, Jabi and several parts of the Federal Capital Territory without redundancy and with some restriction.

TCN’s General Manager, Public Affairs, Ndidi Mbah, said that with a total available capacity of 160 megawatts and total load demand of 96MW (2,304MWh) on both lines, the damaged transmission line 1 was very strategic as line 2 alone could not carry the entire load from Katampe to Central Area transmission substation.

She noted that as a result of this, the second transmission line was transmitting only 75MW (1,800MWh daily) at full capacity with a load drop of 21MW (540MWh daily) on that axis.

TCN noted that with this development, it operated without redundancy in the areas listed above.

“This means that if anything happens to the second line, TCN would be unable to supply the Central Area transmission substation,” Mbah said.

She added, “This will throw the Central Area and areas being fed through that sub-station into total darkness as there would be no other transmission line to sustain electricity supply on this route. TCN has made this fact abundantly clear to IBB Golf management who are slow in fixing the damaged underground line since June 18, 2019.”

She said the transmission company had to alert alert the public that since the damage of its 132kV transmission line 1, the second transmission line had been continuously transmitting 75MW.

TCN said the IBB Golf Club management must quickly undertake the repairs of the damaged underground 132kV transmission line, taking into account the urgency it required.

It, however, stated that the company, working with the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company, had been managing the situation to reduce the impact of the damage to the network on various customers of AEDC.

“But there is need for customers of AEDC to know about this problem as TCN seeks their understanding,” the transmission firm stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]