FG retirees decry neglect under contributory pension scheme
Some Federal Government retirees under the Contributory Pension Scheme are worried that their pensions have not been paid more than a year after their retirement, NIKE POPOOLA reports

The unending wait for payment of pensions after retirement under the Contributory Pension Scheme is bringing undue hardships to some senior citizens who served the Federal Government in their active years.

Many of the retirees, having retired for more than a year are worried that the Federal Government is not showing full commitment to their plight.

In August 2019, the Federal Government had expressed its readiness to end delay in pension payment to the workers who transited to the Contributory Pension Scheme before retirement.

President Muhammadu Buhari had directed the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, to appropriate and release N62.83bn to clear the backlogs of accrued pension rights of retirees in the next three years.

A letter signed by the President’s Chief of State, Abba Kyari, directed the Budget office of the Federation to include N12.83bn, N25bn and another N25bn in the budgets of 2020, 2021 and 2022 respectively to settle the outstanding accrued pension rights of the federal retirees under the CPS.

But the concerned retirees are worried that many of them may have died in penury before the end of the three-year period.

The retirees have described the long waiting period as an insensitive move by the Federal Government, that it would further subject them to more hardships as they would have no money to take care of their health and other expenses.

Industry observers and pensioners faulted the plan, noting that by the end of the three-year plan, more federal workers would have retired, with its attendant mounting liabilities.

The Pension Reform Act was enacted and signed into law in 2004 to provide a contributory scheme for the payment of retirement benefits of employees in both the public and private sectors.

This was because the old Defined Benefits Scheme had huge liabilities, which were not being funded and many pensioners were dying of hardship because they could not get their pensions.

A major problem of the old DBS was that the Federal Government was not funding it well through the issuance of retirement bonds, which were meant to be redeemed by the workers upon retirement.

Because of this, there were no sufficient funds to pay the workers when they retired, which led to mounting liabilities in excess of N2tn.

This subjected the pensioners to undue hardship and untimely deaths, as they could not get their entitlements to take care of their health, feed properly and settle other bills.

According to a pension expert, the payment to federal workers who joined the CPS before retirement is made up of the total contributions of the employees and employers, the return on investments of the contributions over the years, and the accrued pension rights for employees who were already in service before the commencement of the PRA 2004 in June 2004.

“The accrued right is got through the redemption of the Federal Government’s retirement bond through the Retirement Benefits Bond Redemption Fund Account in the Central Bank of Nigeria,” an operator explained.

Industry stakeholders are worried that same funding problem that crippled the DBS was occurring in the CPS, thereby, breeding retirees without pensions.

“We are gradually returning to the pre-pension reform era, where under the Defined Benefit Scheme, retired public servants and pensioners were not sure when their retirement benefits and pensions would be paid,” an operator said.

The budgetary funding and releases of rights have not been regular and adequate for the payment of outstanding accrued pension rights in recent years.

Consequently, since 2017, the Federal Government had been releasing funds for payment of the accrued rights in piecemeal, against amounts requested by PenCom for the payment.

The shortfall had been responsible for the accumulation of several months of unpaid accrued pension rights, which has now led to about 15 months of delay.

A federal retiree under the CPS, Mrs Zainab Usman, worried that since she retired one year ago, her family had been suffering as a result of non-payment of pension.

She said the President was simply encouraging corruption as against his fight against corruption.

Usman said, “How can President Buhari abandon us and be planning to pay us over a period of three years. It is the same President that says we should shun corruption in public service but he is the same person that has left us on the streets to go hungry.”

Another retiree, Kunle Adesina, said the action of the President was against the objective of the PRA 2014.

He said, “The President is violating the law. The objective of the PRA 2014 is for a retiree to be paid immediately after he or she retires and stops receiving salary. President Buhari has shown that he is insensitive to our plight and this is very as awful.

“My pension should be paid to me immediately, considering the fact that I no longer receive salary.”

The acting Director-General, National Pension Commission, Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar, had earlier said that Section 39 (2) of the Pension Reform Act 2014 mandates the Federal Government to pay into the Retirement Benefits Bond Redemption Fund Account an amount not less than five per cent of the total monthly wage bill payable to employees in the Public Service of the Federation towards the redemption of the accrued pension right of FGN retirees.

“However, in the last five years, budgetary funding/releases had not been regular and adequate for the payment of outstanding accrued pension rights over this period as a result of decline in government revenue.

“Also in year 2017, only 44.4 per cent of the total amount requested by the commission was approved and released by the FGN for the payment of accrued pension right.

“This shortfall has been responsible for the accumulation of several months/backlog of unpaid accrued pension rights.”

She said the commission had been engaging the relevant authorities to ensure funding of the outstanding accrued right liabilities, especially the shortfall in 2017 budget.

“A submission was made to the FGN during the Inter-ministerial Committee meeting in 2017, to consider issuance of bond through the Debt Management Office to fund these arrears as alternative to budgetary allocations,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]