Toyota releases Rav4 plug-in teaser image
Rasheed Bisiriyu

Toyota Motor Corporation has announced plans to reveal the first plug-in hybrid version of its best-selling vehicle in the United States and some other markets.

The new vehicle, according to multiple sources including Fox News and Jalopnic, will not be a pickup and it will be displayed at the Los Angeles Auto Show in November.

Along with providing an unspecified all-electric driving range, Toyota said the plug-in would be the most powerful version of the Rav4. That title currently belongs to the standard all-wheel-drive Rav4 hybrid, which has 219 horsepower and a combined fuel economy rating of 40 mpg.

The only plug-in model Toyota sells today is the Prius Prime, which provides 25 miles of all-electric driving and 54 mpg combined when running in conventional hybrid mode. That’s two mpg better than the standard Prius.

Jalopnic also reports that Toyota has released a teaser image of the upcoming plug-in via a press statement, which will be made available for the 2021 model year.

“It’s wearing a new color called Supersonic Red, which looks frankly great on the RAV4, itself an already stylish crossover,” it states, adding that Toyota says the plug-in RAV4 will be “the most powerful RAV4 yet,” but didn’t provide further details.

The RAV4 is said to be already wildly popular for its utilitarian reasons. It seats five comfortably, has great storage space and offers convenient ingress and egress. It is also described as a perfect commuter car in a Jalopnic review.

Toyota has sold 324,622 Rav4s in the United States market alone, so far this year., the report added.

Ford is also introducing a plug-in version of its Rav4 competitor, the Escape, next spring, according to reports.

Pricing has not been announced, but Ford said the 209hp compact SUV would only be available in front-wheel-drive and deliver over 30 miles of all-electric range.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]