Micro-grids, solution to Africa’s power problems, says expert
Okechukwu Nnodim

The incorporation of micro-grids into a hybrid system of electrification is the best solution for Africa’s power supply problems, an international energy consultant based in Johannesburg, Anastasia Walsh, has said.

Walsh, who described electrification as an ongoing and foundational investment necessary to realise all modern-day development objectives, urged governments in Africa to explore the use of mini and micro-grids as they strive to provide power.

She said, “Despite bullish policies, the fact remains that over 640 million Africans lack access to electricity. The effect of this is apparent.

“It impedes economic growth, it inhibits the advancements of self-reliant local communities and it threatens national security. African governments are beginning to rethink their electrification plans.

“Grid modernisation, specifically the deployment of micro-grids in rural areas, provides a promising strategy.”

She noted that attempting to replicate the centralised utility models implemented in the United States and Europe had not succeeded in improving energy access across the continent.

Walsh said despite this, it was as if many governments and utilities wrongly maintain the position that the expansion of the traditional grid infrastructure was the solution.

She said, “In areas where communities have access to the central grid, they still have to supplement the intermittency of the power with diesel generators.

“On the flip side, the utilities are financially strained because they are unable to collect revenues from their customers.

“The low rate of revenue collection is due to the unsustainable tariffs the providers impose on customers as a result of the political pressure exerted on them. This results in the utilities being unable to finance upgrades in infrastructure, further exacerbating the issues.”

Walsh explained that micro-grids were smallscale power grids that ran on a combination of solar, wind, or biomass or fossil fuels to provide reliable power.

She said they operated either independently from the main grid or could be synched to it at the same voltage to shift the energy and respond to peaks and troughs in supply and demand.

This, she said, would ensure that there was no interruption in power supply, allowing communities to be more energy- independent by cutting costs and providing reliable energy access.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]