Boeing inspects 810NG jets, finds 38 cracks
Rasheed Bisiriyu

Boeing has said airlines have inspected 810 of the company’s 737 NG jets around the world and found 38 structural cracks requiring repairs and replacement of the affected parts.

Officials have said that the planes will be grounded until the repairs are made with nearly five per cent of inspections finding cracks in a “pickle fork” – a part that attaches the plane’s fuselage, or body, to the wing structure and manages forces, according to an online report by Airlines Economics.

The 737 NG is the third-generation 737 and the version before the now-grounded 737 MAX, which is not affected by the issue.

Last week, Southwest Airlines and Brazil’s Gol Linhas Aereas grounded a total of 13 Boeing Co 737 NG airplanes.

It’s believed that Southwest grounded two planes, while Gol said it had grounded 11.

In a statement, Gol said it found “evidence of the need to replace a specific component, whose characteristics were not compliant with the standards set by the maker.”

The Brazilian airline said the fleet change would affect three per cent of its passengers until 15 December. Gol has a fleet of 115 Boeing 737 planes, setting aside its grounded MAX planes, according to its website.

Southwest spokeswoman Brandy King said there was no timeline when the aircraft would be back in service.

She said, “We do not have a timeline when the airplanes will be returned to service; we are working with Boeing to schedule the upcoming repairs.”

The grounding comes after the US regulators FAA had ordered urgent inspections after the company notified the agency of structural cracks.

The FAA told the aircraft operators to inspect 165 older 737 NGs for structural cracks, but it now appears the actual number of planes covered is more than 200.

American, as well as, United Airlines said publicly earlier last week that they had not seen any cracks on its airplanes.

The FAA told CNN in a statement, “Boeing notified the agency of the matter after it discovered the cracks while conducting modifications on a heavily used aircraft.

“Subsequent inspections uncovered similar cracks in a small number of additional planes. The FAA will instruct operators to conduct specific inspections, make any necessary repairs and to report their findings to the agency immediately.”

In a response to this, Boeing told the CNN that “no in-service issues have been reported.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]