NOGASA to tackle oil smuggling at Nigeria’s borders
Okechukwu Nnodim

The Natural Oil and Gas Suppliers Association of Nigeria is to support the Federal Government in tackling the smuggling of petroleum products across Nigeria’s borders.

NOGASA’s national president, Benneth Korie, who disclosed this at the National Working Committee meeting of the association in Abuja, also stated that the group would work closely with the government to eradicate pipeline vandalism and adulteration of petroleum products in Nigeria.

He said, “We will continue our campaign against illegal bunkering and the smuggling of refined petroleum products across our borders. We will ensure diligent prosecution and conviction of offenders found guilty.

“While Nigeria remains committed to free and fair continental and international trade, we will not hesitate to tackle illegal smuggling, trans-shipment and other predatory trade practices that destroy jobs in our country.”

Korie, who also distributed operational vehicles to the zonal chairmen of the association, stated that the move would enhance the capacity of the officials to enforce compliance in the distribution of petroleum products in Nigeria.

He stated that NOGASA being the umbrella body of oil and gas suppliers nationwide, would ensure that all its members comply with government directives on the provision of adequate supply of oil and gas.

“This is another reason why we gave out these cars to ensure the effective operations of our association at the zonal levels,” Korie stated.

He stated that arrangements had been made to organise a seminar for members of the association in a bid to chart a way forward to ensure sustainable distribution channel for petroleum products.

According to him, there is a need to ensure quality service delivery, as regards the distribution of oil and gas in order to avoid products scarcity.

Korie also thanked the Federal Government for restoring the railways, as he tasked the government to expedite action on the distribution of petroleum products through rail lines.

He added that within one year of its operations, the association’s membership had grown beyond 9,500, stating that members often identified poor logistics as a challenge to petroleum products distribution.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]