UberBOAT to operate Five Cowries-Ikorodu Jetties route
Rasheed Bisiriyu

The UberBOAT pilot scheme launched in Lagos on Friday will operate between the Five Cowries Terminal, Ikoyi and Ikorodu Jetties, the ride-hailing firm has said.

Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was a special guest at the launch, held within the Lagos State Waterways Authority complex at the Five Cowries Jetty Falomo, took a ride on the newly unveiled UberBOAT.

Uber’s General Manager for West Africa, Lola Kassim, said, “In this phase, the service will be available between the Five Cowries and Ikorodu Jetties,” adding that the boat service would be focused on moving people from point A to point B via the Lagos waterways.

According to her, UberBOAT initiative being executed in conjunction with the Lagos State Waterways Authority is aimed at improving workers’ productivity by easing road congestion where several man hours were being wasted.

“With UberBOAT, riders can leave their cars at home and instead utilise the waterways as a means of getting around faster and with less stress,” she said.

The firm also explained how to use the boat service, saying, “There are two ways to book a trip on UberBOAT; the pre-booking which is 24 hours before, or on the day of the trip.

Lagos State Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederic Oladeinde, said the launch that the UberBOAT presented a unique opportunity to help improve mobility in the state.

Managing Director, Lagos State Waterways Authority, Damilola Emmanuel, said, “At LASWA, our mission is to develop the waterways in Lagos State as a means of giving the people of this great city more efficient options to get around. Because UberBOAT utilises technology, then it means that the efficiency we seek is achieved, and we are able to bring the service to even more people within the city.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]