LACVIS develops database for one million vehicles
Rasheed Bisiriyu

Lagos Computerised Vehicle Inspection Service has developed a central database for over one million vehicles and inspected thousands of vehicles since it started operations two years ago in Lagos.

The firm stated this in a statement announcing the conferment of an award by Transsafe 360° Global initiative on the LACVIS Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Sunday Obayendo, in recognition of his contributions to road safety and transportation industry.

LACVIS is said to be working closely with the Vehicle Inspection Service under the supervision of the Lagos State Ministry of Transportation.

Obayendo was specifically honoured with the Technology-Driven Vehicle Inspection Pioneer Award.

“This award recognises the giant strides achieved by Obayendo in the use of technology to determine the roadworthiness of vehicles,” the statement said.

President of Transsafe 360 Degree, Mr Jimba Ganiyu, said Obayendo had become one of the heroes of safety with great contributions to the transportation industry.

“The impetus for Prince Segun Obayendo’s advocacy was born first out of his local experience followed by his international exposure. He had witnessed as a young man, the value placed on human lives through the compulsory MOT test mandated before the issuance of roadworthiness certificate for vehicles. He would later see how technology was deployed, while sojourning in Germany, UK and America to save lives and properties.”

The LACVIS MD was said to have moved from one state to another, interacting with top political leaders and relevant stakeholders on how regular and periodic inspection of vehicles was the way to reduce the over 100,000 deaths recorded annually on Nigerian roads.

“Despite the obstacles involved in pioneering this movement, Prince Segun Obayendo never wavered and was resolute in his belief that lives can be saved and disasters averted by simply embracing technology available in other technological driven nations,” the statement added.

His dream was said to have given birth to the now globally recognised Lagos Computerised Vehicle Inspection Service, a Public Private Partnership with the Lagos State Government.

The General Manager of LACVIS, Mr Segun Ogunnaike, was recognised for his deploying creativity and corporate communication to achieve corporate governance at LACVIS.

Lagos Traffic Radio, some officials of the Nigeria Police Force, Federal Road Safety Corps and some government functionaries also got awards in recognition of their efforts towards creating a sustainable transportation industry in the state.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]