Presidential orders on ports poorly implemented – Report
Rasheed Bisiriyu

All presidential orders and declarations in relation to seaports are scantily complied with and the system has continued to get worse, a report has said.

The report released in Lagos at a round-table session on service delivery at the Nigerian ports was titled ‘Operations at Nigerian Seaports and Terminals: Port Users Survey’.

The report was the outcome of a recent research sponsored by the Convention on Business Integrity Limited and funded by the ActionAid and UK Aid.

Participants at the Lagos conference organised by the CBI, Maritime Anti-Corruption Network and Business Actions Against Corruption also called for the empowerment and protection of whistle-blowers to give them the courage to expose corruption at the seaports and improve the business environment.

A number of presidential orders on seaports had been rolled out since the Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress took charge of the government at the federal level in August 2015 but the report lamented that they had been haphazardly implemented.

It stated, “At the moment, the state/government appears helpless as all presidential orders and declarations remain poorly complied with and the system continues to get worse.”

It therefore urged the government to strictly enforce its rules and ensure compliance without fear or favour even as it added that “stakeholders should continue to push for more transparency and accountability” in port/terminal operating activities.

Participants at the forum also agreed with the report that corruption was largely responsible for the congestion, frustration and loss of government’s revenue at the seaports.

For instance, they noted that corruption and exercise of discretionary powers by the government officials at the ports had adversely affected business activities there, leading to a revenue loss of about N2.5tn annually in the industry.

Shipping lines, importers and freight forwarders were said to be at the receiving end of the corruption and inefficiencies at the seaports and they urged the government to empower and protect whistle-blowers to expose corrupt practices in the area.

They also stressed the need to further engage with ports and terminal authorities and officials on the need to ease their processes and operations.

The Chief Executive Officer, CBi, Soji Apampa, said reforming operations in the seaports would help reduce obstacles hindering ease of doing business.

He noted that the Standard Operating Procedures launched by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo were aimed at making business processes at the ports more efficient, adding, “All port users must review their processes to comply with the SOPs, as this would enhance accountability.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]