FG inaugurates team to track fuel distribution
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

The Federal Government has inaugurated a team of 89 persons drawn from five agencies to ensure transparency and accountability in the distribution of petroleum products across the country.

Speaking at the inauguration of the team, which it named, ‘Operation White’, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, said they would help to authenticate the actual volume of products imported and consumed in Nigeria, as well as ensure that the nation attains energy security.

Sylva said the initiative was long overdue for the country, as he charged members of the team to carry out the assignment with commitment, zeal and patriotism.

The minister stated that he was optimistic that the operation would stem the smuggling of petroleum products by some unscrupulous operators, adding that the savings from the exercise would go a long way in supporting infrastructural development.

He recalled that few weeks after the closure of the nation’s land borders, daily petrol consumption dropped from 60 million litres per day to 52 million litres.

On his part, the Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mele Kyari, charged the team to deliver on the national assignment of controlling leakage of petroleum products, especially petrol, adding that they had no option but to succeed.

He said Operation White would monitor and track every molecule of petroleum products imported into the country and follow it through to the pump, adding that the NNPC was poised to support the Federal Government in its quest to guarantee energy security for the country.

Kyari said the NNPC under his leadership would continue to be transparent by ensuring that the entire operations of the oil and gas industry remained visible to all Nigerians and all operators.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]