Abucoop MFB posts N156m profit
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

Abucoop Microfinance Bank Limited has announced a profit before tax of N156m and has unveiled a new logo for the financial institution.

According to the bank, the N156m PBT was posted at the close of its 2018 financial year and was the highest profit ever recorded by the MFB.

The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Abucoop, Emmanuel Jegede, disclosed this to our correspondent in Abuja while speaking on some of the reasons why the bank had to change its logo.

He said, “The bank is fully owned by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation Staff Multipurpose Cooperative Abuja and since 2010 we have been recording geometric growth when it comes to returns on investment.

“Specifically in 2018, we made a record breaking achievement of N156m profit before tax. It might interest you to know that this is the highest profit so far recorded by the bank and it is significant for us.”

Jegede explained that the bank, which had been in existence for about 10 years, decided to change its logo because it was difficult to find Abucoop’s logo online whenever one searched for it.

“This is because the logo we were using before now has the wheel symbol and this represents NNPC. And NNPC has patented that logo such that anywhere you search for us, you will only see our name without our logo,” he stated.

He added, “The board resolved that we should change the logo and we came up with a logo of ours after about 10 years of operations. The new logo has been approved, unveiled and registered with all our regulators.”

On the significance of the new logo to the bank, Jegede stated that it meant a rebirth for Abucoop, adding that its customers should expect more from the MFB.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]