Passengers kick over cancelled flight at Abuja airport
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

Some passengers of Aero Contractors who were heading for Warri from the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, caused a scene at the stand of the airline on Thursday as they kicked against the cancellation of their flight by the domestic carrier.

It was learnt that the flight which was originally scheduled to depart the NAIA at around 1.30pm was cancelled by the airline without proper communication with its passengers.

Sources at the airport, who witnessed how angry passengers of the airline stopped operations at Aero’s counter on Thursday afternoon, told our correspondent that it took the intervention of other airport officials to calm the air travellers.

“The plane was supposed to leave the Abuja airport for Osubi in Warri, Delta State around 1.30pm, but it was cancelled and later rescheduled to leave tomorrow (Friday) by 6.30am and this was not properly communicated to the passengers,” one of sources at the airport stated.

He added, “The passengers got so angry that they practically grounded activities at the airline’s counter for some time this afternoon, until other airport officials came to pacify them.”

When contacted, the spokesperson for the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria, the firm that took over the airline in 2017, Jude Nwauzor, told our correspondent that he was on vacation.

He promised to get across to the airline and revert with necessary information on the matter.

Nwauzor, however, could not do so up until the time this report was filed in.

But sources at the airline told our correspondent that the delay in aviation fuel supply and the low lighting system at the Osubi airport in Warri were some of the reasons why the flight was cancelled.

They also stated that text messages were sent to the passengers, but due to poor network, the messages could not get through to the travellers.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]