BUA awaits NPA’s approval for €4.7m terminal repairs
Anna Okon

The last has not been heard of in the face-off between BUA, concessionare of Terminal B, Port Harcourt Port, and its landlord, the Nigerian Ports Authority.

In a statement released on Wednesday, BUA accused the NPA of refusing to approve the planned reconstruction of the terminal berths and quayside, which they said would cost €4.7m.

The statement read in part, “BUA had contacted a renowned construction company to effect the needed repairs at the terminal and thereafter paid the sum of €4.7m. But the approval letters sent to the NPA for work to begin were without reply, thereby making any construction work impossible.”

Earlier, the NPA had accused BUA of neglecting to reconstruct the terminal for 10 years, after the initial provision in the lease agreement that the facility must be reconstructed within 90 days of the takeover by BUA.

The NPA said the negligence caused the structure and the surrounding quayside to weaken and become easy for vandals to gain access to the facility.

In response, BUA insisted that it was the failure of the NPA to provide security for the terminal as required in the lease agreement that gave way for nefarious activities of hoodlums and vandals who over a period of time cut the pipes and steel beams of the berths, thereby affecting their stability and consequently making remedial work imperative.

Earlier, the two firms accused each other of flouting the terms of the lease agreement.

While BUA accused the NPA of not obeying the arbitration clause that mandated a matter between the parties to go through a court process before being decided, the NPA responded that in obedience of a court order preventing it from terminating the lease agreement with BUA, it allowed the concessionaire full use of the terminal.

The agency maintained that during the one-year and six-month period that the court order subsisted, BUA was able make full use of the terminal and even received 117 vessels.

BUA accused the NPA of “quickly decommissioning the terminal without due consideration for the arbitration or the subsisting court injunction.”

In response, the NPA said it obeyed the court order until it got a letter from BUA, saying that the terminal was in a state of disrepair and about to collapse.

It said it shut down the terminal in reaction to BUA’s letter because BUA had implied that it was unsafe to keep operating the facility.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]