AfCFTA: Stakeholders urge exporters to consider finished products
Samuel Awoyinfa

Nigerian manufacturers and exporters have been called upon to explore opportunities presented by the African Continental Free Trade Agreement, by moving away from commodity export to exportation of finished goods.

Stakeholders who spoke at the Annual General Meeting of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria Export Promotion Group made this call and maintained that AfCTA offered Nigeria, as the largest economy in Africa, and one of the leading intra-African trading nations, huge export opportunities.

Speaking on the topic of the AGM ‘Leveraging the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement for export expansion in Nigeria’s manufacturing sector’, on Thursday the Managing Director, Intra-African Trade Initiative, The African Export-Import Bank, Ms Kanayo Awani, noted that manufacturers represented the largest collection of entrepreneurs in Nigeria, and would ensure robust and competitive manufacturing sector that would make the country a regional and global economic power.

While adding that that was the only way to reduce poverty in the country and record growth in regional and global trade, she explained that most East Asian economies that pursued the export-led growth model saw a dramatic reduction in poverty level.

She said, “Primary commodities and natural resources continue to account for a significant share of total African exports. Most countries in the region have a commodity export dependence of more than 80 per cent, whereas industrial products and manufactured goods account for the lion’s share of African imports.

“As the largest economy in Africa, the AfCTA holds a phenomenal growth and export opportunities for Nigeria. Bringing together 55 countries and creating a market of 1.2 billion people with a combined Gross Domestic Product of about $2.5tn, it opens the wider African market for Nigerian manufacturers and exporters.”

She said the bank was ready to assist any manufacturer or exporter with bankable proposal with funding.

The executive director, Business Development, Nigerian Export-Import Bank, Stella Okotete, said the bank had financial products to help the manufacturers and exporters.

She added that in its export facilitation role, the bank “plays developmental role in export facilitation with the key strategic intent of promoting the building of Nigeria’s export capacities and enhancing regional trade.

“We offer credit in both local and foreign currencies; we have risk-bearing facilities such as export credit guarantee and export credit insurance. We also offer business development and financial advisory services.”

On his part, the Chairman, MAN Export Group, Chief Ede Dafinone, expressed concerns over the low performance in the non-oil export earnings for the year 2018, and called for a more export-friendly government.

While he said the group was engaged in several meetings with the National Assembly and the Nigeria Export Promotion Council on the approval of exporters to participate in the promissory notes programme of the Federal Government, Dafinone added that the body would continue to liase with the government on the need to reverse its stand on the closure of the country’s borders.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]