$50bn food imports by African countries worry Obasanjo
Samuel Awoyinfa

Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has expressed concern over $50bn food import bill incurred annually by African countries, calling for concerted efforts to reduce it.

Thus, he called for massive investment in agriculture, particularly cassava, soybean, cowpea and plantain to help Africa cut down on annual food imports that is estimated at $50bn.

Obasanjo spoke on Tuesday October 8, 2019 during the inauguration of the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture, Kalambo research station in Bukavu, Democratic Republic of Congo.

A statement by the IITA indicated that it was inaugurated by the country’s President, Felix Tshisekedi.

The research station is named “The President Olusegun Obasanjo Research Station”, in honour of the ex-President who is also the IITA Goodwill Ambassador.

He said, “The first crop to take is cassava. The second crop is soybean because it is very important for human nutrition and livestock. The next is cowpea and lastly plantain. If we invest in these crops, we will be able to reduce the $50bn that Africa is spending annually on importing food.”

The former President underlined the importance of research to agricultural transformation, citing the Nigerian example where his administration was able to raise cassava production by 20 million tonnes during his eight year-tenure.

He commended the IITA Director General, Dr Nteranya Sanginga, for his leadership, and the institute for its excellent research in addressing the problems facing Africa.

The former president congratulated Tshisekedi for providing the enabling environment and support for the IITA to establish the centre, stating that he felt deeply honoured to be part of it.

At the inauguration were the President of the African Development Bank, Dr Akinwunmi Adesina; Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde; and the former Prime Minister of Ethiopia, Hailemariam Desalegn, among others.

Sanginga said the research station was in dedication to the IITA and its partners’ mission of fighting hunger and poverty in Africa and would contribute towards boosting agricultural productivity in DR Congo and the region.

“The station is a symbol of our dedication and commitment to building the research and development capacity in DR Congo and the Great Lakes,” he said.

He reiterated the importance of research to agricultural transformation and cited the progress made by Nigeria in cassava to the role of research innovations developed by the IITA and its partners.

The IITA Director for the Central African Region, Dr Bernard Vanlauwe, added that the lab was built in record time using modern methods and materials.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]