UBA Foundation to reward schools at essay competition
Nike Popoola

United Bank for Africa Plc, says it has commenced the 2019 edition of its annual national essay competition in Nigeria with a call for entries.

The bank said the essay competition, which was in its 9th year, and targeted at senior secondary school students in Nigeria was organised annually, as part of UBA Foundation’s education initiative.

This is aimed at promoting the reading culture and encouraging healthy and intellectual competition among secondary school students in Nigeria and across Africa.

The bank announced the call for entries on Tuesday, at the media launch which took place at UBA headquarters in Lagos.

Speaking at the event, the Chief Executive Officer, UBA Foundation, Mrs Bola Atta, said the essay competition, would provide an opportunity for students in secondary schools across the country to put in their entries and win prizes in the form of educational grants to study in any university of their choice on the African continent.

Beginning from last year, the prize money increased significantly as the UBA Foundation emphasised that education remained one of the foundation’s key initiatives, she said.

The bank disclosed that the first prize for the UBA national Essay Competition was a N2m educational grant, while the second and third prizes were N1.5m and N1m educational grants respectively.

Speaking to the students and participants at the event, Atta said, “To us at the Foundation, this is our drive to improve the quality of education across the continent. It is also our way of giving back to the society.

“The competition is a key aspect of our investment drive in human capital, as we seek to improve knowledge base, allow students to express themselves and write creatively.

“We will continue to sustain the initiative because education is very important to UBA and we are more than committed to providing the necessary support for students in Nigeria and across the African continent.

“We are driven by the mantra to do well and do good and we will not relent in our efforts to touch lives through our various projects, and initiatives.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]