Access Bank, Nigerian Breweries commit N150m to talent show
Feyisayo Popoola

Access Bank Plc and Nigerian Breweries Plc have partnered to launch a new talent show.

The talent show, which is called ‘Access the Stars’, is sponsored by Access Bank and Star Lager Beer, who said the winner of the show would be presented N150m.

The Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Breweries, Mr Jordi Borrut-Bel, while speaking during a press conference in Lagos on Wednesday, stated that there was a need for the Nigerian economy to grow by various means.

He noted that there were a lot of talents and creativity among the youths in the country who needed a platform to grow, which was what the two companies sought to provide.

The Chief Executive Officer, Access Bank, Dr Herbert Wigwe, expressed excitement at the partnership with Nigerian Breweries Plc, saying the initiative was aimed at supporting national development.

He said the partnership was aimed at supporting young talents and making social impact.

Wigwe said “Banking is traditionally boring; so, our partnership with Nigerian Breweries is for a good reason.

‘‘We intend to bring out several young talents that will serve as successors for the current stars we have in the music industry. These youths will be engaged in productive roles that would make them better off.”

He stated that the auditions would be in six cities across the country, after which successful candidates would be groomed for the final.

According to him, Nigerian-based singer, Oluwaseyi Joshua, popularly known as Seyi Shay; dance instructor, Kafayat Shafau, also known as Kaffy; and record producer, Temitayo Ibitoye (Tee-y mix) will be the judges of the show.

He stated that all contestants needed to do was to open a Diamond Extra account and buy three cans of Star to be qualified for the auditions.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]