Nigerian Breweries to expand operation in Enugu – MD
Raphael Ede, Enugu

The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Breweries Plc, Mr Jordi Borrut Bel, on Thursday said that the company was concluding plans to expand its operational capacity in Enugu State through the introduction of a multi-billion naira business project.

Bel who spoke when he led a delegation on a courtesy call to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of the state said that project proposal was already before the board of the company for approval.

He commended the governor for providing an enabling environment for businesses to thrive in the state, adding that the network of roads constructed by the administration within and around their host communities at 9th Mile Corner, and other sustained efforts had enhanced security of lives and property.

The managing director explained that the enabling business environment in the state and host communities as well as the governor’s commitment to peace and security had made it possible for the company’s planned expansion, which he expressed optimism would be approved by the board soon.

“I will like to express our gratitude for the work you have done in the network of roads around the brewery, specifically the roads leading to the Ama Brewery. I would also like to commend you for the enabling environment you have created in this state, especially the way you have been able to address the civil unrest by the communities around the brewery.

“In all, I will like to commend you for the peace and security which this state has enjoyed under your administration. I will like to say that this enabling environment you have created has, in turn, enabled our business to grow to the extent that we have been able to start the procedure for expansion of our brewery,” he said.

Responding, Governor Ugwuanyi described the business relations between the state government and the company as “mutually rewarding experience”.

The governor expressed delight at the proposed expansion, stating that it would generate more employment, create wealth and improve tax revenue of the state.

While assuring the MD of his administration’s unflinching support, the governor disclosed that the state government had done a lot to make Enugu State a destination of choice for credible investors.

He said that his administration through continuous “heavy investments” in our security architecture and peace initiatives, had demonstrated its untiring commitment in providing the enabling environment for businesses to thrive in the state.

He said, “Enugu State, under my watch, has transited from its 2014 World Bank Ease of Doing Business ranking as 27th out of 37 states (including FCT, Abuja), to an enviable ranking as the second state in the Ease of Starting Business and third state in Ease of Doing Business in Nigeria in the 2018 World Bank Ease of Doing Business rankings.”

“I assure you that Enugu State is ready and conducive for phase two capacity expansion project of Ama Brewery as envisaged. Your decision to further your investment in our state is a decision well made. We are, indeed, happy and ready to win with Nigerian Breweries.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]