ROGEP to boost access to electricity in Nigeria
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

The Regional Off-Grid Electrification Project will help Nigeria accelerate its access to electricity through the use of stand-alone solar photovoltaic systems.

ROGEP is also providing support on access to electricity for 18 other countries in West Africa and the Sahel through the same system.

The Acting Director, Renewable and Rural Power Access Department, Federal Ministry of Power, Faruk Yusuf, disclosed this while speaking at a workshop organised by the FMP and ECOWAS Centre for Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency in Abuja.

He said, “ROGEP, which is aimed at providing Nigeria the opportunity to realise its universal electricity access goals, is in tandem with the aspirations of the Federal Government as contained in its vision 30:30:30 of achieving 30 per cent renewable energy contribution to the country’s energy mix by year 2030.”

Yusuf, who was represented by official of the ministry, Samuel Ayangeaor, said the strategic importance of electricity in achieving national development and poverty reduction in the Economic Community of West African States and the Sahel region was enormous.

This, he said, was why the ECOWAS centre designed ROGEP, adding that the programme was targeted at increasing access to sustainable electricity services in the ECOWAS region for households, commercial enterprises, public health and education facilities.

He stated that the project was funded by the World Bank with co-financing from Clean Technology Fund and Directorate General of International Corporation of the Government of Netherlands.

“The aim of this project is to provide universal electricity to the region by year 2020,” Yusuf stated.

He noted that as a party to the Paris Agreement, Nigeria made a commitment to reduce its green house gas emissions conditionally and unconditionally by 20 per cent and 45 per cent respectively.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]