Navy advocates special court for maritime offenders
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

The Nigerian Navy on Wednesday called for the establishment of a special court for the prosecution of maritime offenders.

It said the court would handle cases that had to do with illegal poaching, piracy and sea robbery activities.

The Chief of Policy and Planning, Naval Headquarters, Rear Admiral Begiray-Ibe Onwu, made the call at the end of a three-day Global Maritime Conference in Abuja.

The position of the Nigerian Navy was also captured in the communique issued at the end of the conference, advising countries in the Gulf of Guinea to consider establishing such a court.

Onwu stated that with the collaboration between the attorney-general of the federation and the executive arm of government such court could be easily established to tackle crime in the maritime sector.

He said, “It is not new when we call for the establishment of maritime court. This will not require any parliamentary address or whatever, it is just for the attorney-general of the federation and the executive arm.

“With the executive arm, it can be executed so that certain courts dedicated to maritime can be in place. Why? You don’t need to keep a ship when you have arrested it. But you keep and still maintain it so that it won’t go down the sea which is another problem.”

Earlier, the Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, Dakuku Peterside, presented the resolutions of the three-day conference in a communiqué.

He said the event was organised following reported incidents of insecurity in the Gulf of Guinea.

He stated that a number of observations were made on four major clusters of issues to an amenable regional maritime environment.

Peterside outlined the issues as the legal/policy/regulatory framework for maritime security; and institutional framework and capacities.

Others are material, human, financial, technological and other resources needed to enhance security in the gulf; and the ways of implementing the necessary strategies for enhanced maritime security in the region.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]