Bad port roads driving away investors —MWUN
Anna Okon

The President General, Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, Mr Adewale Adeyanju has said investors in the maritime sector had continued to leave Nigeria to neighbouring countries due to poor port acess roads.

He stated this at a social gathering to mark the 59th birthday of the immediate past president of the union, and Chairman of the MWUN advisory council, Anthont Nted.

He said, “It has not been easy for the maritime sector, coupled with the bad roads that is affecting the economy. Most of the investors, as we have continued to say, are leaving to other countries close to us.

“We pray that the government will fix the roads, not only Apapa and Tin Can, but also other access roads in Port Harcourt, Onne, Calabar. They are all in very bad shape.”

The MWUN boss pointed out that the absence of investors impacted negatively on almost all the categories of port workers.

He said, “If the investors are not there, it affects the average workers, the dockworker, the seafarers, the shipping agents and the Nigerian Port Authority workers.

“ So, we are praying that this present administration fixes all the roads. If the roads are good, we believe the economy will improve.”

Earleir in his address, Nted appealed to the Federal Government to hasten the repairs and reconstruction of the Oshodi-Apapa Expressway, to halt the economic loss the deplorable condition of the road was inflicting on the nation.

He maintained that the loss the nation incurred as a result of the failed road was unquantifiable monetarily, as it had forced many port operators to either relocate to neigbouring and more business-friendly countries, or scale down their operations.

He said as a stakeholder in the port, he had observed that the Oshodi-Apapa Expressway was in a terrible state, urging the government to work harder and get the road fixed on time.

He said, “Government needs to work harder. If I were in their shoes, I would bring in many contractors to do the job because this is rainy season. People are suffering too much on that road. The traffic is hellish and the economy has suffered great loss.

“The government needs to do something quick so that we can stop the loss. Because of the deplorable access road, so many vessels are being diverted to neighbouring countries. It did not start today, it has been in a bad state for a very long time.

“Importers and other businesses are relocating and scaling down their operations to minimise losses. The road needs to be fixed quickly so that we can reduce the loss to the barest minimum.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]