UN okays Nigeria’s anti-piracy law, condemns drug smuggling
The United Nations Office on Drug and Crime has raised the alarm over the increasing importation of hard drugs including cocaine and Tramadol into Nigeria and other West Africa countries through the Gulf of Guinea.

The UNODC also applauded the Federal Government for signing into law the Suppression of Piracy and other Offences Act, which they said gave comprehensive framework for tackling the issue of piracy and other maritime crimes.

According to the UN, the most prominent kind of drugs being smuggled into the countries in West and Central Africa, are tramadol and cocaine.

Speaking with journalists on the sidelines of the Global Maritime Security Conference, the Representative of the UNODC in Nigeria, Oliver Stolpe, reportedly said while the Nigerian authorities seized eight tonnes of tramadol smuggled into the country by sea, the volume increased to 150 tonnes in 2018.

He said there was massive increase in the volume of tramadol smuggled into Nigeria by the sea route.

According to him, Nigerian government has done well by signing into law, the Suppression of Piracy and other Offences Act, which for the first time, gives comprehensive framework to tackling the issue of piracy and other maritime crimes.

“Nigeria is on good part, but the big issue is, specific follow up with prosecutions because that has been lacking. One of the challenges in the Gulf of Guinea countries is basically the extremely fragmented legal framework when we look at all the countries in the region,” he was quoted as saying.

He said there were regional, international and sub-regional frameworks like the ECOWAS level of framework, but there was a gap between countries having signed on to these different legal frameworks, to actually be able to put them into domestic legislation or policies.

“At the moment, that is a crucial gap but UN is actually working very extensively with Nigerian government and governments of other countries in the region to assist them in terms of legal reforms and capacity building for judges, prosecutors and law enforcement agencies,” he said.

The programme officer for UNODC, Guiseppe Sernias, also stated that the countries in the Gulf of Guinea and the whole of West Africa were recording high level of drugs and cocaine trafficking by sea judging by the seizures in recent years.

According to him, Cape Verde, for instance, recently seized 10 tonnes of cocaine while Guinea Bissau Authority also seized large quantities of cocaine that mainly came by sea.

“Therefore, we need countries to implement trade agreements that would enable vessels to be board at sea. Countries need to be able to apply the Vienna Convention on Narcotics Substances so that coastal countries could board a vessel of another flag, this can be put in national legal framework,” he reportedly said.

Meanwhile, the Federal Government has been advised to invest in the development of the Niger-Delta region and create a special maritime court to handle cases of piracy and other maritime offences.

This was part of the recommendations reached at the thematic sessions tagged, “Maritime Governance and Blue Economy.”

The participants argued that establishment of specialised maritime courts would be desirable to ensure quick dispensation of cases.

It was also agreed that the Nigerian government should re-invest in the Niger-Delta communities by educating, creating skills development and providing adequate compensation scheme for the youths in the communities.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]