Foreigners fishing on Nigerian waters illegally –Shipowners
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

The Ship Owners Association of Nigeria have decried the illegal activities of foreigners operating on Nigerian waters and called for regional cooperation to tackle the menace.

President of SOAN, Margaret Onyema-Orakwusi, disclosed this on the sidelines of the ongoing Global Maritime Security Conference in Abuja.

She said it was unacceptable to have foreigners invade Nigerian waterways and poach the country’s fish without any meaningful attempt to stop them.

She said, “These poachers come into Nigerian waterways, steal our fish in the name of fishing, and sell them to the international community without following the rules and regulation of fishing activities in the world.”

According to Onyema-Orakwusi, this illegal act cost Nigeria billions of dollars, as the invaders, who mainly come from Europe and Asia, often succeed in stealing Nigerian fish and sell to the international market.

She queried how the poachers managed to get away with these activities in Europe and Asia where they sell their products without a trace or an attempt to arrest them.

According to her, the origin of the fish they steal could be traced easily by looking at the products.

Onyema-Orakwusi, who doubles as Chairman, Maritime Trade Group, further alleged that it was a big conspiracy and an organised crime in Europe and Asia, adding that that was why nothing had been done about it.

She called on the European Union and the United Nations to come to the rescue for African waters and ensure that the activities of these poachers were checked.

On efforts by Nigeria to tackle the menace, Onyema-Orakwusi said, “We don’t have the capacity to checkmate the activities of fish poachers at the sea and that is why they invade our waters and get away freely.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]