Shallow sea draft hinders eastern ports, says Holm
Anna Okon

The Managing Director of Hull Blyth Nigeria Limited, Mr Christian Holm, has confirmed that the shallow sea draft at the eastern ports of Calabar, Rivers, Warri and others prevented large vessels from berthing in them and thereby hinders their economic viability.

Holm gave this explanation while addressing members of the House of Representatives ad-hoc committee investigaing why the ports were not being put to maximum use.

What he said confirmed the point raised by the Managing Director, Nigerian Ports Authority, Hadiza Bala-Usman about the dredging limitations of the eastern ports.

During a maritime stakeholders’ interractive forum with the Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi in Lagos, Bala-Usman explained that the eastern ports were river ports.

She said this posed limitation to dredging activities in the ports as they could not be dredged beyond 8 metres at most.

She stressed the need to develop the deep seaports around the nation to allow for berthing of mordern and larger vessels.

The Hull Blyth boss whose vessel, MN Boreas, was the first container vessel to call at Calabar port in 15 years, explained that the firm facilitated the visit of the vessel to open up trade and business activities in the eastern ports.

“We are excited about the willingness of Marguisa Lines to invest in the port and in the new service, and all the new opportunities that open up for trade and development in Calabar and beyond, now that the port is connected with a global container liner service,” he said.

Stressing that shallow water drafts and other undeveloped infrastructure hindered large vessels from calling at Calabar and other eastern ports, Holm said that port complexes outside Lagos “have not been upgraded in accordance with modern seaborne trade.”

“This relates especially to containerised trade, where the requirements for sizeable port container yards and related handling equipment are not met,” he said.

The Hull Blyth MD added, “The shallow drafts prevent access of average-sized vessels to the ports, and shipping companies must instead deploy smaller tonnage which cannot provide economic transportation to most shippers.

“Road infrastructure to connect the ports with the importers and exporters’ places of business lack maintenance and may often be unmotorable. Delivery and distribution of shipping goods thus become uneconomic or even impossible.”

He also listed security along the waterways and port access road which ,he said,was ‘critically compromised.’

“Vessels require expensive armed protection to navigate the rivers, and road hauliers can only move during limited day time hours with additional high logistic costs,” he said.

He said the investment by Marguisa Lines and the willingness of its customers to use the Calabar Port will be jeopardised “unless the above key issues are urgently addressed by the government.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]