Beta Glass to complete $30m expansion in 2020
Beta Glass Plc has said its $30m investment in the furnace capacity expansion of its plant in Agbara, Ogun State is scheduled to be completed by June 2020.

The company said in a statement that when the new furnace becomes operational, it would increase the plant’s annual capacity by 35,000 tonnes and pioneer the use of Narrow Neck Press and Blow technology in West Africa.

Beta Glass added that the technology would enable it to bring lighter weight, non-returnable glass bottles to Nigerian market.

The statement read in part, “The new furnace, which will be among the most advanced of its kind globally, will be instrumental to the company by strengthening its position as the leading supplier of glass bottles and complementary packaging products in West Africa.”

The Chairman, Beta Glass, Abimbola Ogunbanjo, said the new furnace would enable the company to leverage latest technology and its technical expertise to make world-class glass packaging products in Nigeria while promoting sustainability and improving the company’s environmental footprint.

He said, “This investment will enable growth and create long-term value for both our shareholders and society.”

The Managing Director, Beta Glass, Mr Darren Bennett-Voci, said the management team was delighted by the progress made so far on the expansion project.

He said, “Our investment in this state-of-the-art facility re-affirms our deep faith in Nigeria and the high-growth potential of West Africa.

“The new furnace will significantly enhance our ability to meet the growing demand for glass bottles and jars in Nigeria and across West Africa.”

Bennett-Voci added that upon completion of the furnace expansion, new jobs would be created, both direct and indirect.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]