Cabo Verde Airlines expands flights to Nigeria
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The national carrier of the Cape Verde Islands, Cabo Verde Airlines, has said it plans to begin flight services to Lagos by December.

The airline said on Tuesday that the direct flights from Lagos, Nigeria to Cape Verde had been designed to boost tourism and travel between both countries.

The Chief Executive Officer and President, Cabo Verde Airline, Jens Bjarnason, said the carrier’s Boeing 757-200 would be deployed for five times a week flight from the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos to its hub in Sal, Cape Verde.

“We are excited to add the most populous country in Africa as one of our destinations. Nigeria has a vibrant travel sector and we look forward to servicing our customers and connecting them to Cape Verde and beyond seamlessly,” he said.

Bjarnason stated that passengers should look forward to comfort, quality and a memorable travel experience on their aircraft which had 161 economy class seats and 22 executive Morabeza premium-class seats.

The Nigerian Country Manager, Cabo Verde Airlines, Tariye Orianzi, said the carrier would target African entrepreneurs, leisure and business travellers as well as world travellers with its competitive pricing and offers.

She said this would include a Cape Verde stopover programme at no additional ticket costs.

Orianzi said, “Cape Verde is a member of ECOWAS, making it visa free for Nigerians. Cape Verde has some of the most beautiful untouched natural Islands in the world.

“We hope to bring the Cape Verdean culture and colours to all corners of the world, as our mission suggests, connecting four continents while also serving as the gateway for fast travel. We also believe the addition of this route will improve tourism in Africa.”

Bjarnason gave the airline’s other destinations as Washington DC, Boston, Lisbon, Milan, Rome, Paris, Luanda, Dakar and several cities in Brazil – Recife, Porto Alegre, Salvador and Fortaleza.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]