Ekesons introduces first-class cabins on luxury buses
Rasheed Bisiriyu

A luxury bus operator, E Ekesons Bros Nigeria Limited, says it is determined to give travellers on long haul trips a truly first-class travel experience with the introduction of specially packaged cabins on its fleet of buses.

A statement by the firm obtained on Tuesday said the buses already deployed in some routes were fitted with a segmented first-class section providing personalised audio visual facility enabling each passenger to select and watch whatever they could find pleasant throughout the journey.

It said each passenger in the first-class segment of the bus would also be entitled to exclusive power outlets that would enable them to charge a laptop and a phone.

It said, “In order to enhance the first-class comfort, the first-class section of the bus offers more legroom, leather chairs, and an ambience that is not any lesser than what is provided in the air bus.

“Aside from the air conditioning system for all passengers in the bus, there are also refrigerated drinks and an in-built toilet.”

The statement quoted the Managing Director of the company, Chijioke Ojukwu, as saying the introduction of the service was meant to add value to customer experience.

He said, “We have done this in so many ways. Apart from improving safety, we have also been able to add more comfort. Currently, as the company stands, we have been able to bring in the first of its kind VIP executive to the coach section.

“So, we now have coaches that will give you VIP experience which in Ekeson we call B-SWAG. B-SWAG is a product we coined to suit both the old and the young. It is a bus system that gives you far more legroom and more space for those who would want to sleep and an onboard multi-entertainment system. This is just like you have on the aircraft for long distance travels where you select your movie on demand, your choice of music and your choice of books on each seat.”

According to him, there is a lot of things to enjoy in the first-class cabin, adding that the cabin crew and hostesses have been trained and equipped to make the travel very comfortable for travellers.

Ojukwu said the company’s growing customers were getting valuable services on all its routes.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]