Lagos NLC demands 400% increase in workers allowances
Anna Okon

The Lagos Chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress has demanded that the transport, housing and other allowances paid to workers in the state should be increased by 400 per cent.

The union said while N30,000 has been approved as the new national minimum wage, the minimum wage for workers in Lagos State should be N50,000.

Stating these demands during a rally to mark the World Day for Decent Work in Lagos on Monday, the union said working in Lagos was more challenging than in other states.

The Chairman, NLC, Lagos Chapter, Funmi Sessi, said Lagos was a special place and should attract a special form of allowances for its workers.

According to her, workers in Lagos face a lot of hazards in and outside their workplaces.

She added that goods in Lagos market were more expensive than many other places in Nigeria.

Speaking on the event, which had its theme as, ‘Invest in care for gender equality: Equal pay for equal work’, Sessi said workers in Nigeria deserved to have better workplaces.

She said the union was tired of workers being exposed to hazards, insecurity, casualisation, forced labour.

She warned employers in the state to stop treating workers as if they were expendable, adding that they deserved to be treated with dignity, given regular appointments with guaranteed remuneration and regular pensions at retirement.

She sought an end to a situation where firms in Nigeria preferred outsourcing their jobs and employing casual labour.

READ ALSO: Tax on calls, SMS, data, others faces setback

The labour leader accused some foreign firms in the nation of engaging in anti-labour practices such as hiring underage workers and overworking them in exchange for very meagre salaries.

Responding, the Deputy Majority Leader of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Olumuyiwa Jimoh, said the demands would be discussed at the plenary of the house.

He said some of the issues were national and the state had no jurisdiction over them but those concerning the state would be dealt with appropriately.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]