FCMB promises improved service delivery
Nike Popoola

First City Monument Bank has restated its commitment to attain the highest level of customer advocacy by leveraging its solid business models, bespoke solutions, and excellent service delivery.

It added that its highly professional staff and technology would also be leveraged to turn the aspirations of its customers to opportunities.

The bank gave the assurance in a statement to celebrate this year’s international customer service week, across its 206 branches in Nigeria, which had the theme, ‘The magic of service.’

A statement said the theme recognised that good service could turn an unhappy customer into a satisfied long-term customer.

It added that it could also turn an occasional customer into a repeat customer as well as the biggest fan and advocate of an organisation.

“The customer service week, which started 35 years ago, is a unique period when service organisations and global agencies extol the patronage and loyalty of their esteemed customers by introducing several unique and special activities to appreciate them,” it stated.

According to FCMB, the celebration of this year’s customer service week offered another opportunity to further connect, engage and appreciate customers for their unbridled loyalty and patronage in the last 37 years that the lender was founded.

The highlight of the week-long activities include a special ‘thank you’ message to customers nationwide and a plan by the Managing Director, Mr Adam Nuru, to directly speak to as many FCMB customers as possible.

It added that the executive management of FCMB would visit children across all regions who have kiddies account with the bank, whose birthdays fell during the customer service week, to celebrate with them and present them gifts.

The bank said staff that had gone the extra mile to provide exceptional service would be recognised and rewarded.

Commenting, the Divisional Head, Service Management and Technology, FCMB, Mr Kayode Adigun, said, “For us at FCMB, the theme of this year`s celebration is very significant as the concept of customer service is embedded in our corporate identity which is reflected in our core values-execution, professionalism, innovation and customer focus.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]

A