Strategies to employ in a buyer’s market
Abiodun Doherty

A buyer’s market is a market situation in which the number of houses and properties for sale are more than the number of people interested in buying.

A buyer’s market presents its own unique opportunities as well as challenges, depending on how you handle the situation.

A buyer’s market often favours those who understand that type of market cycle and have prepared themselves for the opportunity it provides. The real estate market is cyclical and boom times do not last forever.

Understanding how the buyer market works will give you strategic advantages when you see them.

A buyer’s market provides investors with unique opportunities. One of such opportunities is the chance to buy properties in prime areas that you might not have had the opportunity to buy a property before.

This is your opportunity to upscale. In addition, because you are buying at less than the market value you gain instant equity in the property. Whenever the market picks up again, the extra equity that you have gained could be leveraged to access finance that you can use to buy other properties.

There are many indicators that a real estate market has entered or is about to enter into a buyer’s market. It doesn’t just happen. The real estate market is an integral part of the economy of every nation.

Whenever the economy is going down or is down, the real estate market will be affected. During periods of low economic activities credit will be hard to get.

Banks will put in more stringent lending rules and sometimes the cost of investment funds can be high because they are scarce. In addition, the local real estate market will be slow because people are closing fewer sales.

Listed properties are likely to stay on the market longer. Buying properties at a bargain will certainly give you undue advantages later on.

One of the things to determine is when you would like to buy in a buyer’s market. It is important for you to determine when the fall in prices will bottom out, that is, reach its lowest point before it stagnates or is stable prior to beginning the slow and arduous climb back to profitability.

If you jump in too early you are likely to buy the property when it could still go further down. This effectively means you are losing money as the value of the property continues to plummet.

It is important for you to be focused and concentrate on the target area that will likely hold some treasures. Working with a few professional realtors or agents will help you to quickly know what is in the market.

Dig in a little deeper to find out the reason why the owner wants to sell and if there are any special reasons why the property had stayed too long on the market. In a buyer’s market, not all sellers have a motivation to sell. Some sellers are just testing the market and once they know that they cannot get the price that they are comfortable with, they will withdraw their property from the market.

You should not waste your time with these set of sellers because they are not motivated to sell.

A motivated seller is eager to sell his or her property and ready to give you a discount to buy. The length of time that the property of a motivated seller has spent in the market makes them more flexible and eager to sell to a prepared buyer.

Your understanding of the reason they are so eager to sell could help you with your offer. If you know why a motivated seller wants to sell you can offer them a package that they will find compelling and would be a win-win for you.

As stated earlier, the buyers who will most likely benefit from a buyer’s market is a prepared buyer and a prepared buyer is someone that is financially ready to buy a property.

If you search long enough and intensely, you will definitely come across bargains. However, if you still need to go to the bank to arrange finance and sort out other logistics you are most likely to lose out of several transactions. In fact, one of the most effective ways of snapping up a bargain in this market is to make an offer that is cash-backed or payment ready.

Most sellers are likely going to accept such offers even though it is lower than they had projected and move on with their life.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]