NIA campaigns against fake motor insurance certificates
Nike Popoola

The Director-General, Nigerian Insurers Association, Mrs Yetunde Ilori, has said that the industry will soon commence a campaign tagged, ‘Wetin you carry’, to create awareness on the benefits of insurance.

She said this was part of efforts to eradicate fake motor insurance certificates in the country and ensure that motorists took genuine covers.

She noted that there were about 12 million motorists on Nigerian roads, according to the National Bureau of Statistics, and that far less of the cars were insured.

According to her, about 2.5 million vehicles were registered on the Nigerian Insurance Industry database.

With genuine insurance, she said the motorist would be able to get compensation if there is an accident or an insured loss.

Operators were, however, worried that most motorists were endangering the lives of other road users by driving their vehicles on Nigerian roads without appropriate insurance certificates.

Instead of procuring valid certificates that would provide insurance cover and compensation for road users in times of accident, a large number of the motorists buy cheap papers from fraudsters in unauthorised areas.

In January 2019, the NIA introduced its USSD verification code.

The Chairman, NIA, Mr Tope Smart, had said, “The USSD is a Global System for Mobile Communication technology used to send text between a mobile phone and an application programme in the network. It works independent of Internet connectivity.”

While explaining further, he said a motorist could send an sms on any network using the code “*565*11#.

He said a motorist could verify their motor insurance for a fee of N20 using “*565*11#” to any network without having Internet network on the phone.

He recalled that in 2010, the association introduced the NIID to eradicate fake certificates, and it went live in 2011.

According to him, the objective of the NIID was intended to serve as an authentic database of the Nigerian insurance industry data, provide qualitative statistics/analysis of the industry data; as a vehicle for easy verification of genuine insurance certificates by all stakeholders.

He noted that it would reduce cases of fraudulent insurance transactions, especially for motor and marine policies.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]