LASG, FIDC to complete Ilubirin project by 2020
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Lagos State Government and its partner in the Ilubirin Foreshore Housing project, First Investment Development Company, have said the estate will be completed and delivered by 2020.

Ilubirin Estate is a public housing project on about 15.1 hectares of reclaimed land at the foot of the Third Mainland Bridge.

It is being developed by the Ilubirin Fireshore Projects Limited, a joint venture between the Lagos State Government and the First Investment Development Company.

The Lagos State Commissioner for Housing, Moruf Akinderu- Fatai, at a tour of the project, said with the commitment from both parties, the commercial development would be completed at the said time.

The commissioner said, “We have a solid plan to deliver the first phase of the project, which is residential in the fourth quarter of 2020; to be followed by the commercial and entertainment/leisure parks in 2021.

“Ilubirin is a critically important development for the city that will rejuvenate the area. We have a duty to ensure that more Lagos residents become homeowners and that the homes themselves are built to global and international standards.”

He stated that when completed, the project would address the housing deficit in Lagos.

According to the Project Director of the FIDC, Wale Bamgbelu, there is collective determination and commitment from both parties to the timely delivery of Ilubirin, which he said would set a new standard for mixed-used housing estates.

“Ilubirin will create a benchmark for future community development in Lagos State anchored on the concept of ‘live, work and play’ with not only residential offerings but also offices, shopping, new school, hotel, medical centre, leisure facilities and brand new Marina for the lagoon,” he added.

Bamgbelu said a revised master plan was recently completed to help in optimising Marina and creating a new shopping spine through the new neighbourhood.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]