Lagos plans volunteering, private operators for rails, roads
Everest Amaefule

The Lagos State Government plans to mobilise private sector investors to construct rail lines that will improve the transportation system in the nation’s largest city.

Similarly, the state plans to mobilise volunteers to fix some roads even as it has started holding talks with the Chinese Civil Engineering Construction Company on some strategic roads and infrastructure.

The state Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Mr Samuel Egube, said these while answering questions from journalists in Lagos on Saturday.

He said the state had not abandoned the plan to construct rail lines across the city but added that this would be achieved through the use of special financing from the private sector.

To fix bad roads, the commissioner said that the state would soon constitute ‘Team Lagos’ to enable the government to tap into the huge potential of volunteering for road construction and repairs.

He said, “When it comes to volunteering for fixing roads in our nation, people will contribute. We want to be able to galvanise what we call Team Lagos.

“We want to be able to push our volunteering system. So it is not only about people volunteering as nurses; we will also see people saying ‘I want this road done and I want to fix it myself or with my friends’.

“So we are looking at all of those kinds of systems that will come on top of our budgetary positioning.”

Egube said the state government would provide guidelines for volunteers interested in fixing roads as well as ensure quality control.

He also said, “The rail has not been abandoned. The roads including the Badagry Expressway have not been abandoned. As soon as this government came in, it had meetings with contractors for them to go back but they need to be funded.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]