Fayemi seeks increased funding for mining
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, has canvassed increased funding for the mining sector owing to its capital intensive nature.

He said with increased funding, more investors would be attracted into the sector and be confident that the government supports the business.

Fayemi, who is a former minister of Mines and Steel Development, also stressed the need to guard against unsafe mining practices and reduce instances of individuals exploiting the state resources to the detriment of the country’s development.

The governor spoke in Ado Ekiti on Friday at the closing session of the third edition of the National Council on Mining and Mineral Resources Development with the theme, ‘Nigeria Minerals and Metal Sector: Spectrum for Investment Opportunities for Economic Growth and Development’ hosted by the Ekiti State Government.

READ ALSO: Domestic workers steal N243m jewellery from Lagos celebrity

He said, “We need to continue to advocate diversification of the economy. There are economic opportunities in mining and mineral resources development, if properly harnessed. We need to guard against unsafe mining practices and support our artisanal miners to better organise themselves and reduce the incidents where individuals are exploiting the state resources to the detriment of socio-economic development of our nation.”

The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite, who called for stakeholders’ buy-in for the exploitation of the economic opportunities in the nation’s mining sector, lamented that the sector had in the past made very little impact “for lack of broad-based buy-in and support from critical stakeholders.”

He said, “I want to reassure that Nigeria has one of the most friendly investment policies in the world with high assurance of return on investment. I call on members of the public to leverage government’s liberal policies and reap maximum benefits”, he said.

The minister said no fewer than 1,346 artisanal mining operators had formed cooperatives in readiness to access small-scale mining licences, adding that under the government’s mining financing support fund, qualified artisanal mining operators could access between N100,000 and N10m in business support.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]