African Investment Forum to focus on deals — AfDB
Everest Amaefule, Johannesburg

Ahead of the second edition of the African Investment Forum, which opens in Johannesburg on Monday, the African Development Bank and the South African government have said that the forum would focus on transactions.

Addressing a press conference in Pretoria on Sunday, the two entities said the forum would be short on talk and heavy on deals.

Organised by the AfDB and its partners, the second edition of the forum will take place from November 11 to 13 in Johannesburg, South Africa.

The multi-stakeholder transactional marketplace is aimed at raising capital, advancing projects to bankable stage and accelerating financial closure of deals.

READ ALSO: Domestic workers steal N243m jewellery from Lagos celebrity

“Last year, we achieved remarkable results with over $36bn of investment interests that were signed or closed. We are hoping that this year, it is going to be even better,” said Vuyelwa Vumendlini, Deputy Director General of the National Treasury of South Africa.

Similarly, Senior Advisor to the Premier of Gauteng, South Africa, Mduduzi Mbapa, noted that the biggest take away from last year’s edition was the need for greater interconnection on the continent.

He said, “In fact, many have been writing about Africa rising. Through this forum, we are making sure that our continent does rise and it contributes to the growth of the world.”

Around 2,000 delegates are expected to attend the innovative investment marketplace which will bring together heads of states, project sponsors, pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, institutional investors in 60 boardroom sessions to move projects from commitment to action.

Head and Senior Director of the Africa Investment Forum, Chinelo Anohu, said the forum was conceived for transformative transactions across the continent.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]