FMBN targets increased access to housing finance
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria says it plans to increase access to housing finance for civil servants, especially those in Lagos State.

The Managing Director of the FMBN, Ahmed Dangiwa, made this known at a sensitisation workshop for the workers.

Dangiwa, who was represented by the Executive Director, Business Development and Portfolio Management, FMBN, Mr Umar Dankane, said the bank would collaborate with the state government to achieve the target.

He stated that with the rapid increase in population of the country, there was a need to boost housing delivery, especially in Lagos.

According to him, the bank has developed products that will suit the needs of the workers at a single-digit interest rate.

“The products afford workers the opportunities to buy, build or renovate their houses,” he said.

He said the FMBN had undergone some transformation that made it stronger to deliver its mandate effectively.

“The FMBN process is now automated. Our contributors can now receive the SMS alert for National Housing Fund deductions made from their monthly salaries,” he added.

The Branch Manager, FMBN Ikeja district, Mrs Margaret Sowande, said the Lagos State Government deserved commendation for considering housing schemes for its workers.

She said the NHF was established as a mandatory scheme that all employers of labour must fulfil by deducting and remitting 2.5 per cent of the basic monthly salary of its workers.

“The FMBN is passionate about all Nigerians; workers in private sector can also benefit from the scheme,” she said.

According to Sowande, despite the non-compliance status of Lagos State ministries and agencies, some public servants have benefited up to N131.6m from the bank’s Home Renovation Loan.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]