FG seeks more investments from Poland
Ifeanyi Onuba

The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Richard Adebayo, has called on investors from Poland to consider Nigeria for business opportunities.

The minister made the call on Friday in Abuja during a meeting with the Ambassador of Republic of Poland to Nigeria, Mrs Jonna Tarnawska.

Adebayo said the Federal Government was committed to building on the existing relationship between Nigeria and Poland in terms of trade, commerce and industrialisation.

He said that government had put in place measures to ensure that all foreigners, including those from Poland, engage with credible local investors.

Adebayo listed one of such to include the Executive Order on ease of doing business aimed at removing all impediments to business regulation.

He said, “As a ministry, we are more than willing to assist Polish investors in any way possible with regards to guaranteeing the credibility of Nigeria businesses.

“We know our people and we know the credible ones. So we are ready to give assistance in that regard. If there are areas where your firms need introduction to credible people here, we will assist.

“We will give you the investment brochure of Nigeria through the Nigeria Investment Promotion Council, to help further your knowledge of our local business environment.

“Nigeria is also going to initiate economic and technical cooperation with Poland so that in the process, we will have a trade mission and proper economic activities to be carried out between the two countries.”

He allayed fears on challenges to be faced by Polish businesses coming to Nigeria, adding that the ministry was playing a lead role in ease of doing business.

The minister said, “The agencies under this ministry were given awards for easing businesses for both foreign and local investors.

“I’m saying this to allay your fears about the type of relationship that could exist between your country’s business and Nigeria.

“I can assure you that it is a very friendly environment. From the export angle, there are lots of things we can synergise on.

“With all these, the credible platform for all foreigners, including Polish nationals coming to do business in Nigeria is already established.”

The ambassador expressed willingness to explore further business opportunities in Nigeria, but raised concerns about confidence of polish investors.

She said, “The essence of our visit is to reiterate that Poland will like to continue its cooperation with Nigeria.

“Poland has a long-standing relationship with Nigeria. And we will like to further develop on this for the benefits of both nations.

“Our country is willing to ensure cooperation with Nigeria in many areas such as maritime, defence, education and economy.”

She said while many Polish businesses were interested in coming to Nigeria, it was a challenge when they don’t have the right information about areas to invest in.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]