Local content: Chevron trains Nigerians in fabrication, construction
Okechukwu Nnodim

Chevron Nigeria Limited says it has trained hundreds of Nigerians in facility fabrication, construction and installations to boost local content development across the county.

CNL’s Chairman/Managing Director, Jeff Ewing, said the training was not just to fulfill the requirements of the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content Development Act, but to support the country’s economy.

He was quoted in a statement issued by the firm as saying, “We have helped in building the capacities of several Nigerian businesses by allocating substantial scopes of our major capital projects to Nigerian companies.

“Chevron is also helping to grow the Nigerian economy by contributing to the development of communities in the areas of our operation. We do all this, not just because it is required by the law, but because it is the right thing to do.”

The oil firm stated that the various areas in which it implemented the NOGICD Act in Nigeria include human capacity development, facility fabrication, construction and installations.

Others include support for facility acquisition, facilitation of partnerships between local and foreign contractors, and provision of opportunities for local community contractors through work scope allocation in Chevron’s major capital projects in Nigeria.

On human capacity development, it said CNL completed construction training for 161 Nigerians on welding, fabrication and craft at Nigerdock facility, Snake Island, Lagos for its Sonam Development Project.

On the Agbami Phase Three development project, it stated that CNL sponsored four Nigerian engineers for subsea engineering training in France in partnership with the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board and Technip Offshore Nigeria Limited.

The firm said it was currently training six young Nigerian engineers in subsea engineering at FMC Technologies facility, Federal Ocean Terminal, Onne, Rivers State.

It added that five Nigerian engineering graduates sponsored by CNL also completed subsea training at Marine Platforms Limited in Port Harcourt.

“One of the trainees was offered full-time employment with Marine Platforms Limited as a marine cadet,” Chevron stated.

On human capital development, it said CNL trained 14 earth science graduates in two batches under the 12-month skills acquisition programme initiated by NCDMB.

In his address during the recent passing out of earth science graduate interns who were trained by CNL, the Executive Secretary, NCDMB, Simbi Wabote, commended the oil firm for its support in Nigerian Content Development.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]