My award, call to do more –Adron boss
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Group Managing Director of Adron Homes, Mr Adetola EmmanuelKing, says his recent award as the 2019 Lagos Man of the Year is a call for him to do more in the real estate industry.

EmmanuelKing told journalists that the award showed that the world had noticed the company’s strides in the industry.

“Lagosians have noticed; Nigerians have also noticed us and we are encouraged to do better and project the image of the organisation,” he said.

EmmanuelKing, according to the Director of Centre for Policy Development and Political Studies, Dr Aderemi Ifaolepin, won the contest by polling 29,829 votes of the 61,894 valid votes cast.

Ifaolepin said the feat was unprecedented in the history of the award.

He stated that the Adron boss contested the position with prominent Lagosians including the Lagos State Head of Service, Mr Hakeem Muri-Okunola who polled 12, 892 and the Group Managing Director of Deltatek Group, Mr Akinwunmi Odumakinde who polled 7, 821 to emerge third.

Ifaolepin said Emmanuelking was nominated for the award because of the humanitarian services he had rendered over time to the state.

The 2018 was won by a former Lagos State Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dr Abdul-Hakeem Abdul-Lateef who had 41,415 votes of the 53,893 valid votes.

In 2017, it was won by Dr Adebola Akindele with 3,324 votes.

Ifeolepin said the award, instituted in 2018, was not political, adding that the organisers believed in recognising honourable people with integrity and that all personalities were thoroughly investigated before their nomination.

He added that like the previous editions, this year, the process was credible and was done through voting with the nomination made open and participatory.

According to him, there are various criteria that cover each sector and EmmanuelKing was chosen from the private sector by the nomination committee.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]