LDR may spur increased lending rate, says expert
Feyisayo Popoola

An Economic and financial expert has said the aggressive actions of the Central Bank of Nigeria for banks to maintain a minimum Loan-to-Deposit Ratio of 65 per cent may lead to increase in default lending rate by banks.

Other experts who spoke during a panel session at a breakfast meeting of the Association of Corporate Treasurers of Nigeria in Lagos on Friday, said the forceful LDR policy drive was believed to lead banks into doing a not-too-detailed type of credit analysis on the loan seekers, which could result to increased non-performing loans.

The CBN had on July 3, 2019, directed banks to maintain a minimum LDR of 60 per cent by September 30, 2019.

Twelve banks were fined about N499bn for the loan policy breach.

The LDR, which is being reviewed quarterly to improve lending to the real sector, was 58.5 per cent as of the end of May.

It has now been raised to 65 per cent for the last quarter of the year.

The breakfast meeting, which was themed ‘The Central Bank of Nigeria five-year policy thrust: Implications for the corporates’, was supported by FMDQ Securities Exchange.

A partner, Financial Services Industry Audit Group, KPMG, Kabir Okunlola, noted that CBN five-year policy thrust (2019-2024) aimed to preserve domestic macroeconomic and financial stability and foster the development of a robust payments system infrastructure that would increase access to finance for all Nigerians.

He said the policy also aimed to improve access to credit for small holders farmers, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, and individual consumers.

He also said the policy would grow the external reserves while supporting efforts at diversifying the economy through intervention programmes in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors.

Okunlola stated that the target was to achieve double- digit economic growth, single- digit inflation rate, and accelerate the rate of employment.

He said, ‘I believe that pushing banks to lend will result to highest level of default with significant impact on the sector.

“Though one of the major aims of the loan policy is to increase lending to businesses and MSMEs, especially in targeted sectors, a potential threat to this development will be on financial system stability for banks due to risk of deterioration of asset quality and higher cost of borrowing, which may result from increased non-performing loans.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]