Oil revenue: Stakeholders advocate proper accountability from govt, agencies
Stakeholders in the oil and gas sector want Nigerians to demand for proper accountability from government with respect to crude oil proceeds, Okechukwu Nnodim reports

Operators and other stakeholders in the oil and gas sector believe that Nigerians deserve to know how proceeds from crude oil sale are utilised.

Participants who spoke at the 8th Emmanuel Egbogah Lecture series, University of Port Harcourt, which focused on the oil sector, urged citizens across the country to always ask questions about the country’s oil revenue.

They noted that Nigerians needed not to face harsh economic realities going by the billions of dollars which the country makes daily from crude oil sale.

Speaking during a panel session at the recent lecture, the Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation Oilfield Services Limited, Bisi Olowoyo, said it was worrisome to have so much poor people in Nigeria.

He said, “We should ask ourselves this question, how can kings be eating bones in the palace? Meaning, why should people in the supposed oil- blessed nations have more people in misery than in prosperity?

“We should ask again, why are other countries able to maximise their resources better than we have done? I’m talking about the government now and all of us belong to government.”

He added, “Take as an instance, when coming into Port Harcourt, Warri or going into oil -based cities in Nigeria, if you compare them with oil -based cities in parts of the world you will be ashamed that this (Port Harcourt) is an oil -bearing city.”

Olowoyo observed that several institutions were involved in the management of proceeds from oil, but wondered if Nigerians had truly felt the impact of the revenue.

He said, “If we will be fair to ourselves, how much development really can we get out of these? Often times, we refer to the centre and we look at NNPC. But what are the questions we ask at the grassroot levels?

“What questions are being asked about the so much fund accruing to the various levels of government? All around the world, people are beginning to ask questions.

“I think we need to begin to ask questions. Also, people are beginning to go to their elected representatives and are asking them questions.”

On why Nigerians should start asking questions, he said the country earned billions of dollars from the sale of crude oil but this had not significantly impacted on people:s lives.

Olowoyo said lawmakers at the National Assembly should be asked questions as well, adding that some other countries had developed their infrastructure notably using oil revenue.

He said, “If you look at the total production of two million barrels of oil per day and multiply that by an average of $65 per barrel, we will probably come to about $50bn. Your calculator may not be able to calculate it in naira.

“The United Arab Emirates now has little oil that is depleting but the people there have said they will use it for infrastructural development.”

He, however, noted that the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mele Kyari, had consistently been a strong advocate of transparency and accountability.

Olowoyo said, “The GMD acknowledged that NNPC belongs to Nigeria and so every Nigerian is a stakeholder and there must be from that end transparency and accountability.

“He (Kyari) is also talking about productivity and performance, leading to excellence and I once asked and said ‘would he be allowed to do this?”

The NNPC official further noted that in managing the country’s resources for social welfare, citizens would need a reorientation.

“The orientation has to change to the extent that people should begin to ask questions,” he stated.

Olowoyo added, “We need to begin to demand for the use of the resources to cater to the needs of people at the lowest levels.”

On several occasions, Kyari had called for transparency in the oil and gas sector in Nigeria and had particularly stated that every Nigerian was a stakeholder in NNPC.

The NNPC boss recently stated that the corporation was undergoing a transformation that was geared towards making it to live up to its responsibilities as a national oil company.

According to him, the corporation would focus on transparency, accountability and performance excellence.

Hr said the road might be rough but the NNPC management was determined to move the nation’s oil and gas industry forward, especially since the oil firm belonged to all Nigerians.

Kyari also urged Nigerians to hold the corporation accountable, as he promised to run a transparent oil company.

On his part, while speaking at the lecture series, the Chair in Petroleum Economics and Management, University of Cape Coast, Ghana, Prof. Wumi Iledare, urged intellectuals to continue to strive harder to take Nigeria to enviable heights.

Iledare said, “There are problems in our society and truly speaking there’s the need for proper accountability from operators in the oil sector and Nigerians must demand for this.

“But I will like to state that intellectuals can only solve Nigeria’s problems if we find a way to pay them well.

“We are not paying professors enough to help us in Nigeria. Politics always trumps economy and that is why we are where we are today.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]