Firm unveils new technology in Kirloskar generators
’Femi Asu

A subsidiary of the Bhojsons Group, Bhojsons Powerhub, has unveiled a new feature technology in Kirloskar Green Generators being marketed and distributed by it in Nigeria.

The firm said in a statement that the Kirloskar Remote Management System would enable complete remote monitoring.

It said it had also introduced the new 1,000 KVA range of Kirloskar Green Generator to meet the growing demand for higher capacity generators in the country.

According to the statement, the new technology and the 1,000 KVA range were launched during the 2019 Power Nigeria Exhibition in Lagos last week.

The Business Unit Head, Bhojsons PowerHub, Rajneesh Gupta, said, “The newly introduced KRM system offers a unique experience for users as it avails them the opportunity to monitor the use of their generators anytime, anywhere and foresee issues to undertake preventive maintenance.

“With the KRM, end users or customers can now monitor all their Kirloskar Green Generators operating across the country through one single room.”

Gupta said the system would enable organisations, especially large corporations with large number of generators in different locations, to monitor the usage, performance and their health in one control room.

This, he said, would ensure efficiency, reducing costs and maximising productivity.

The Managing Director, Bhojsons Plc, Vishant Dalamal, said, “Your generator will be used most efficiently as its health meter will always be at the finger tips making it possible to monitor the health from anywhere.

“The close monitoring will also help in reducing operating costs, thereby guaranteeing a better return on investment and maximum productivity.”

According to him, the new range of Kirloskar generators with the KRM has complete monitoring panel that has been designed to enable customers to view all critical indicators on either the laptop screen or their mobile with an added advantage of receiving alarms for critical parameters of the generators.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]