CFAO, Total launch multi-brand quick auto service
Rasheed Bisiriyu

CFAO has partnered Total to launch its first multi-brand, quick service franchise, AutoFast, in Total service stations across Nigeria.

CFAO said in a statement that the service inaugurated recently in Abuja was part of its efforts to offer better services to Nigerians.

It quoted the Africa Director of Total Marketing and Services, Stanislas Mittrlman, as saying, “We are proud to enter into this partnership with CFAO, a key player in the automotive industry but also a major player on the African continent.

“This collaboration is a concrete illustration of our desire to be a reference brand recognized for its proximity to its customers and the value it brings to each of them.”

The Managing Director, CFAO Nigeria Plc, Mr Thomas Pelletier, said the company was excited about the partnership and was optimistic it would positive results for both parties and their customers.

He said, “CFAO has been in Nigeria for over 117 years and Total Nigeria for over 60 years with Nigeria’s interest at heart. We share similar ideals of offering total customer satisfaction by creating quality products and services. “Vehicle users are in for a better experience as they can drive into AutoFast service stations in Total retail network closest to them.”

He also said that customers could now carry out 35 essential control items for their vehicles for free while maintenance would be less than one hour with quality parts from the Original Equipment Manufacturers offered at affordable prices.

“Our technicians have gone through different stages of intensive training with efficient modern tools and are ready to serve you in line with international best practices. Total is at the forefront of lubricant technology. Quality and durability are evident in its automotive lubricants,” the auto firm said.

Pelletier hinted about plans by the company to open additional four after-sale centres across the country before the end of year.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]