Nigerian heads Africa, Indian Ocean aviation safety committee
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

A Nigerian has been elected to head the steering committee of the comprehensive regional implementation plan for aviation safety in Africa and Indian Ocean.

The new head of the AFI Plan steering committee, Capt. Musa Nuhu, was elected in Montreal, Canada at the 40th assembly of the International Civil Aviation Organisation.

The AFI Plan was adopted by the 36th ICAO Assembly (Assembly Resolution A36-1) to address the concerns expressed by the ICAO Council on the safety status of aircraft operations in the AFI region and was established in 2008.

The problem facing the states in the AFI region and many other states were similar in nature, according to the council’s report.

Nuhu, who is also Nigeria’s representative in the ICAO Council, succeeds Halidou Moussa, who has been heading the group since 2013.

Describing his election as a huge responsibility that would come with challenges, he said it was also a rare opportunity to serve the continent in such capacity and to continue to build on the good works done by former chairpersons of the steering committee.

“The task ahead is great, but I believe working together, we will progress on the mandate given,” he said.

According to him, the initial focus areas of AFI Plan include enabling states to establish and maintain a sustainable safety oversight system and assisting states to resolve identified deficiencies within a reasonable time.

He stated that enhancing aviation safety culture of African aviation service providers was also an area of focus.

“AFI Plan has been expanded to include navigation, airports, and aviation infrastructure development,” he said.

Nuhu is also the current chairperson of the ICAO Council’s Implementation, Strategy and Planning Group, saddled with the responsibility of restructuring the ICAO secretariat.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]