You can be a millionaire farmer!
Anna Okon

Agriculture has been described as the ‘new oil.’ It is rightly described so because of its viability.

About 15 years ago, this sector was very unpopular.

However, since the fall in global price of crude oil in 2014 and the Nigerian government’s urgent move to diversify the economy through the agricultural sector, there has been a rush to participate in the sector.

This rush was aided by the ban placed on the importation of virtually all agricultural items by the Central Bank of Nigeria.

Farmers are now in the pool of Nigerian new crop of millionaires.

You too can become a millionaire farmer

However, before you rush to the farm, you need to take note of the following points.

To be a millionaire farmer, you have to separate farming from farming business.

Farming in Nigeria is popularly understood as a rural activity involving unlearned villagers planting crops and weeding grass with cutlasses, hoes and shovel. Farming that way does not make anyone a millionaire; in fact, it may leave you in perpetual penury.

How to earn millions from farming business

Farming is a profession, like medicine and architecture.

The only difference between farming and other professions is that the professions have barriers to entry. That is, you cannot practise unless you are trained or have certificate in them, but farming has no such barrier.

You can just wake up one day, start digging the ground and start planting; you don’t need certificate.

Get training

Even though the sector is open, you need some training and education to succeed in it.

Without basic education about crop cycle, soil type and fertilizer and feed application, you can end up losing money on a farm.

You may not need to register at a formal school; there are programmes and short capacity building programmes available in Nigeria for you to take advantage of. Do not start farming business unless you get trained.

The Deputy Director-General, Partnerships for Delivery at the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture, Dr Kenton Dashiell, once observed that the average crop yield in Nigerian farms was poor compared to the crop yield in Europe and even other parts of Africa.

He attributed this to ignorance on the part of farmers about crops and soil types.

The same scenario plays out in animal husbandry. If you must rear animals, you have to be trained in it. Otherwise, you pour your hard earned money down the drain.

Training in animal husbandry like crop allows you to learn about feed and its application, the animal and the best environment to groom them along with so many other things.

Plan your budget

Farming business takes a lot of planning. If you have the capital already, you need to sit down and draw a budget assigning the money to items in the budget.

You have to plan a budget over a period of time, ranging from three months to one year, depending on the lifecycle of the crop or gestation period of the animal you wish to rear.

Don’t borrow money from the bank

As a beginner farmer, you cannot borrow money from the bank to start your business.

There are lot of loan facilities available for farmers in Nigeria and the government has consistently wooed operators to take advantage of them. However, these facilities are not meant for you, a beginner.

Loans come with interest which you have to pay. As a beginner, your new farm may be unable to yield enough profit to recover the initial capital, not to talk of bank interest.

Take time and build the business to a point when you make profit, then and only then can you apply for loan. The loan will be for ‘expanding’ the existing business and the profit must be able to cover the interest.

Start small

Even with education, large scale farming is not advisable for a beginner. Start small, from a quarter plot of ‘free’ or available land.

Watch the progress, the mistakes, correct them and move on from there to a plot or two plots. The same thing goes for animal husbandry; start small and learn along the way.

….Next week… Types of crops and how to make money from them

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]