Zedvance offers zero-interest loans to customers
Feyisayo Popoola

Consumer finance company, Zedvance Limited, has revealed plans to reward its customers with zero-interest loans during the celebration of its International Customer Service Week.

The company said in a statement that the celebration of this year’s Customer Service Week would be a memorable one, going by the schedule of activities it had lined up for its customers and personnel nationwide.

The statement read in part, “These include the opportunity for customers to enjoy interest-free loans by simply applying through the MoneyPal app or on the company’s website between 7am and 11am during the customer service week.”

The Chief Operating Officer, Zedvance, Mr Jerry Osagie, said the customers were the reason the company was in business, adding that the firm would always put its customers first in its product, process and service innovations.

Osagie said, “The loyalty and continued confidence of our customers to the organisation has enabled us to stay in business over the years. It is, therefore, appropriate for us to show our appreciation to them during this special week as we do every day.

“Currently in its 35th year, the Customer Service Week provides a unique opportunity for service and support professionals around the globe to join in a celebration of the important role that customer service plays in every organisation.”

Osagie added that the 2019 edition was scheduled for October 7 to 11, 2019, with its theme as ‘The magic of service’.

He said the theme was inspired by the need to turn an unhappy customer into a satisfied long-term customer.

He noted that good service could also turn an occasional customer into a repeat customer and turn any customer into a company’s biggest fan and advocate.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]