Fidelity Bank to give out N120m in promo
Nike Popoola

Fidelity Bank Plc on Thursday said that N120m would be given out to its customers during its next ‘Get Alert In Millions Season 4’ savings promo.

Then bank said this during the introduction of its new savings campaign in Lagos, as part of efforts to promote the culture of savings among Nigerians.

The savings campaign which would ride primarily on digital technologies was one of the initiatives of the bank aimed at rewarding new and existing customers for their unwavering loyalty and patronage.

“The savings promo is expected to run till April 2020, a duration of six months and will see customers cart away a total of N120m in cash prizes,” the bank said.

Speaking at a press conference to commence the promo in Lagos, the Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer, Fidelity Bank, Nnamdi Okonkwo, said the campaign was the ninth in the series of savings promo organised by the bank in the last 12 years to incentivise its customers.

Okonkwo, who was represented by the Executive Director, Shared Services & Products, Chijioke Ugochukwu, pointed out that the campaign sought to reward customers for their loyalty and patronage.

While the savings promo was targeted at a cross- section of customers, Chijioke noted that the bank, apart from using traditional channels would utilise digital platforms such as its Quick Response code and Virtual Assistant to reach unserved areas.

Giving insight into the rationale behind organising this initiative, Okonkwo said that savings promo remained an integral part of the bank.

He added that the promo was focused on reaching out to the unbanked population across the nation.

“We embark on campaigns like this to drive financial inclusion in line with the financial inclusion strategy of the Central Bank of Nigeria. This savings promo allows us to take banking services to the nooks and crannies of Nigeria.

“It also gives us an opportunity to promote a savings culture which is critical to building up investible funds for individuals and companies and a key component of Gross Domestic Product growth.”

He said that the lender remained on course to achieve its strategic objective of becoming a tier one bank by 2022.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]