FG defaults on reconstruction of Enugu airport
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi and Raphael Ede

More than six weeks after the Federal Government shut down flight operations at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport Enugu for reconstruction of runway and infrastructural upgrade, work has yet to start at the airport.

The airport was closed by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria on August 24 with the promise that renovation work for the dilapidated three-kilometre runway would begin immediately.

Investigation revealed that lack of funding was the major reason why the Federal Government was yet to engage any contractor for the work at the Eastern air gateway.

The Minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, had in a meeting with South-East governors assured them that the Enugu airport would be reconstructed to meet the Abuja international airport standard.

Sirika had also disclosed that the runway repairs and other renovation work would be completed by December.

On September 29, the General Manager, Corporate Affairs, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu, told News Agency of Nigeria in Lagos State that FAAN had begun rehabilitation work at the airport.

However, neither the firm that worked on the now dilapidated runway in 2010, PW, nor Julius Berger which the governors of the South-East appealed to Federal Government to handle the reconstruction was mobilised to the site on Thursday when The PUNCH visited the airport.

It was gathered that the Julius Berger which the governors wanted to execute the project could not move for lack of sustainable funding agreement, especially since the work would not require any break when it starts.

Sources blamed the Federal Government to have closed the airport without setting aside funds for the project.

They asked the Federal Government to use the funding model used during the renovation of Abuja airport for Enugu, arguing that it would be the only way to save the airport from permanent closure.

They particularly pleaded with the presidency, the ministries of finance and aviation to collaborate and provide a sustainable source of funding to guarantee that the project could be completed in two months working day and night.

A source said, “You don’t expect the construction company to go in there without making sure that this money will be available because it’s not a project for one-month valuation.”

An expert noted that work on airport lights, both the runway, landing and approach lights had to be worked upon simultaneously with the runway reconstruction.

The expert said, “The light will be done side by side with the contractor doing the runway. It’s a parallel type of job, in the sense that as you are digging the ground, you are laying the conduit.”

The spokesperson for the Ministry of Aviation, Mr James Odaudu, however, told one of our correspondents that the project contractor had been mobilised to site.

“Work has started there; the contractor was mobilised last weekend,” he said.

Odaudu stated that going by what the aviation minister said, the reconstruction should be completed by December.

However, Chairman of South-East Governors Forum Airport Rehabilitation/Palliative Works committee, Chris Okoye, told The PUNCH that work was yet to start.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]