FoodCo extends supermart chain to Lagos
Samuel Awoyinfa

A diversified consumer goods company with interests in retail, quick service restaurants, manufacturing and entertainment, FoodCo Nigeria Limited, has announced plans to extend its footprints to Lagos with the opening of its first outlet in Lekki this month.

FoodCo is said to be currently among the largest supermarket chains in the South-West, outside Lagos and ranked among the top 10 supermarket brands in the country by National Consumer Brands.

Speaking on the new store, Chief Executive Officer designate of the company, Ade Sun-Basorun, said that the decision to extend to Lagos was taken in response to the yearnings of Lagos consumers for convenient, premium shopping and entertainment experience at affordable price.

While revealing the theme of the Lagos outlet launch as ‘Lagos Life, Ibadan Price’, he added that the Lekki outlet would continue FoodCo’s rich tradition of providing a modern shopping experience, combining excellent customer service, and top quality products.

He said with continuous innovation, the supermarket chain promised affordable pricing to meet the lifestyle needs of the contemporary shopper.

According to him, the Lekki outlet will provide an opportunity for Lagosians to savour FoodCo’s unique proposition which thrived on affordability for premium experience.

He said, “The new FoodCo Lekki outlet marks the next phase in our evolution as we bring our model lifestyle malls, incorporating a modern shopping centre, restaurant and premium entertainment to customers in Lekki, Lagos.

“In over 37 years of existence, our customers have come to trust the FoodCo brand as a reliable neighbourhood partner, whether it is in satisfying their grocery and other consumer retail needs or as a responsible stakeholder invested in the growth of our host communities.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]