FG targets more tech hubs for economic growth
Samuel AwoyinfaB

The Federal Government has said that technology hubs are critical to the country’s economic growth as they will enable start-ups to flourish.

The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, made this disclosure at a breakfast meeting of the US Nigeria Council for Food Security, Trade and Investment held on the sidelines of the just-concluded 74th United Nations General Assembly in New York, United States.

Adebayo charged foreign investors to explore and strengthen the country’s Information Communication and Technology sector in a bid to build a strong digital economy.

The minister assured the 40-key members of the USNC that the present administration under President Muhammadu Buhari was committed to creating an enabling environment for technology start-ups to flourish in the country.

According to him, government is doing its best, saying it has been launching different technology hubs in the country to achieve digital economy.

He added that resources would play a critical role in achieving a digital economy and technology-based nation.

Adebayo said, “We must create the governmental environment that will help these technology start-ups to flourish. The government is helping to launch several technology hubs and it’s important we put more resources into this.”

For the Chairman of the USNC, Ambassador Terence McCulley, the focus of the breakfast meeting was strengthening Nigeria’s digital economy by allowing the US investors to target the Nigerian market to invest in the country’s ICT and start-ups sector in order to boost the economy.

According to him, Nigeria’s digital and ICT sector needs foreign investment to grow and attain a technology-driven economy, adding, “Foreign investment is vital to building the technology ecosystem in Nigeria.”

Also speaking on the occasion, a former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria and Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, explained that developmental impact in terms of innovation from technology and corporate venture partnerships were critical to the nation’s economic growth.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]