Clirec tops Bobsguide payments rankings
Nike Popoola

A global information resource for the financial technology sector, Bobsguide, in its 2019 Global Payment Rankings, has voted Precise Financial Systems’ flagship accounts reconciliation solution, Clirec, as the world’s best account management solution.

A statement said there were 40 categories and each category had three winners with a total of 120 winners.

It added that Clirec was the only brand representing African continent in the Bobsguide 2019 Payments Rankings.

The Bobsguide 2019 Payments Rankings was voted for by each firm’s clients and end-users and it represented a diverse list of old and new innovative players, the statement said.

Bobsguide stated, “This year we have asked market participants to select who they believe to be the leaders in the payments and paytech industries and votes flooded in across the board. Payments have become a fast-moving vehicle, driven by regulation, market forces and technological advances. New players are emerging while incumbents look to reinvent themselves in this evolving ecosystem.”

It added that Bobsguide offered a combination of news, analysis, reports, whitepapers, webinars and a comprehensive product directory, listing over 7,000 fintech solutions in areas such as asset management, risk management, payments and transfers, treasury management, wholesale banking and trading.

To emerge overall winner in the ‘best account management solution’ category, Clirec – a suite of fully integrated accounts reconciliation modules with multi-currency and multi-lingual capabilities – outperformed the duo of Free Agent and Xero, which returned as second and third place winners, respectively.

However, the statement said in the best credit card providers’ category, MasterCard came ahead of American Express and MBNA.

The winners in the best mobile app category included NatWest, Revolute and Santander.

The winners in the best in-app money management were NatWest, Starlings and HSBC.

PFS’ Clirec came top in the best account management solution with Free Agents and Xero coming behind.

Specifically, Free Agent is a cloud-based accounting software targeted at small businesses and their accountants. The company was purchased by Royal Bank of Scotland.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]