PPP projects: Aisha Buhari, AfDB condemn women neglect
Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja

The Federal Government has been told to tackle the issue of gender disparities in the conceptualisation, design and delivery of Public Private Partnership projects in the country.

Wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, the Senior Country Director, African Development Bank, Ebrima Faal, and other PPP stakeholders said this on Wednesday in Abuja at a conference organised by the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission.

The conference had as its theme, “Strengthening women’s involvement in PPPs: Delivering gender-responsive PPPs in support of the Sustainable Development Goals”.

Aisha was represented at the event by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Administration, Dr Hajo Sani.

She said the integration of gender perspective in infrastructure development, especially in the PPP design and implementation, would greatly address many gaps in infrastructure delivery as it would affect women.

She said, ‘This conference is not only timely, but very appropriate. While change must reflect the various indices of economic progress, it is imperative that it must deliver significant improvement in the living conditions of all Nigerians, especially women.

“It is therefore my sincere hope that this strategic conference will assist with a clear road map that will recognise the critical importance of gender considerations in the design, development and implementation of PPPs and infrastructure in Nigeria.”

The Director-General, ICRC, Chidi Izuwah, said the agency had come to the realisation that many infrastructure projects in the country were not gender sensitive.

He said that going forward; the ICRC would incorporate key considerations that would eliminate the present gender disparities in the PPP projects.

He said, “We all have a collective responsibility of placing Nigeria on the path towards attaining the United Nation’s SDGs.

“We must apply gender sensitivity in our infrastructure policy design and delivery. Our women are daily confronted with challenges that are no fault of theirs and efforts must be made to address them from all fronts.

“Therefore, one of the key goals of this initiative is to ensure that the PPP infrastructure is designed to support women’s economic and domestic activities.”

He said infrastructure and the PPP projects should be designed in such a manner that would increase women’s economic opportunities and eliminate discrimination against girls and women.

Also speaking at the event, the Emir of Dutse, Dr Nuhu Sanusi, called on the Central Bank of Nigeria to empower women particularly those operating micro and small businesses with single -digit interest loans.

He called on the National Assembly to make legislation that would compel banks to assist women entrepreneurs to thrive.

Sanusi said that the current practice where banks gave out loans of about 18 per cent to small businesses was not helping the growth of the economy.

He said, “Our banks come up with many requirements that are unnecessary for our small scale operators. If we really want to help the economy, we should give women loans for their businesses at four or five per cent.”

The Senior Country Director, African Development Bank, Ebrima Faal, said there was a need for a favourable regulatory framework that would be sensitive to gender needs.

He called for a public procurement framework that would provide technical assistance for gender sensitive PPP projects.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]