We’ll facilitate gas supply to 215MW Kaduna plant –FG
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

The Federal Government is to facilitate the supply of gas to the 215 megawatts Kaduna power generation company, the Minister of State for Power, Goddy Jeddy-Agba, has said.

According to the minister, the power plant, which experienced delay in the production of electricity for about 10 years, may get gas supply from a private supplier, Greenville Liquefied Natural Gas company.

Jeddy-Agba, who disclosed this after a facility tour of Greenville LNG plant in Rivers State, noted that it was his desire and that of the President to see that Nigerians get adequate power supply.

He said, “I am sure the Federal Government will be interested in what is happening here with the three trains, and the fact is that the supply is high enough to meet the need of power plants, for instance to Kaduna, Mando, and some others. If we have these two plants powered by this facility, we are good to go.

“It will help in power generation, which is the government’s priority. With the supply from here, power supply would improve. Kaduna power plant could use the LNG from here. But I am not in the capacity to commit to it; it is a buyer-and-seller issue.”

The minister added, “We would patronise Greenville to the best of our ability if they keep to the terms of agreements; so hopefully, we are in partnership. I want power for Kaduna and Nigeria and the President also wants power for everyone. I promise to facilitate the progress of feeding Kaduna plant from here.”

The 215MW Kaduna power generation company had delayed in the production of power due to various concerns including gas supply issues. Its contract was reportedly awarded to General Electric and Rockson Engineering in November 2009.

The power generation facilty was designed to operate with dual thermal plant using Low Pour Fuel Oil and natural gas and has eight installed units of generation turbines. It is located within the Kudenda Industrial Area of Kaduna.

Jeddy-Agba said the government would work to get the plant running, adding that its partnership with Greenville was part of efforts to increase gas supply to generation companies and improve power supply nationwide.

The Chairman, Greenville LNG, Eddy Van den Broeke, said his firm had capacity to supply gas to the power plant and was ready to do so once it concludes all the necessary arrangements with the Federal Government.

He said, “At present, the North has no gas or electric energy and we are absolutely ready to power the Kaduna power plant. This is because the GE has abandoned the site and so we have taken everything upon ourselves.

“Train One in our facility would be running by the end of November and Train Two would be running by the end of January 2020. So, the full operation would be in place by the end of January 2020.”

On whether his firm had started gas sale and supply agreement with the Federal Government for the Kaduna power plant, Broeke stated that both parties were still negotiating.

The Managing Director, Greenville LNG, Ritu Sahajwalla, said with gas supply to industrial zones, small businesses in the areas would grow at full capacity.

She said, “We have 300 trucks on the ground but 5,000 others are coming on board. So, we are honoured that someone from government is looking to solve the power problem from a different angle.

“With this LNG, small industries can be mushroomed and by the time there are pipelines, they will grow at full capacity. We want to go through the power plant in Kaduna, although we can choose to supply to other customers directly.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]