Foundation urges entrepreneurs on integrity
Nike Popoola

FATE Foundation has urged emerging entrepreneurs to build network, uphold integrity and hard work for business growth.

In a statement, this call was made during the Foundation’s 4th Alumni Conference with the theme, ‘Innovating for scale’, in Lagos.

The Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, stated that, “The support for Small and Medium Enterprises is one with priority focus by the current administration in Lagos State as the reality has shown in other growing economies globally, that the SME sector is vital for economic growth.

“Through the support of SMEs and the private sector, it will help propel expansion of these businesses which would enable job creation in the state.”

He encouraged young entrepreneurs to always maintain integrity and honour, which were key for business growth, hard work in innovating and providing unique experiences for customers and believe in God.

The Executive Director, FATE Foundation, Adenike Adeyemi, stated that the foundation which was founded by Fola Adeola alongside some private sector individuals had over 19 years of operations and had trained over 5,000 persons across 20 states in Nigeria.

She stated that, the conference theme was aimed at empowering its alumni with the right tools to develop practical strategies and innovative approach in building their businesses, products, and services for their customers and target markets.

The Chief Executive Officer, Slot Systems Limited, Nnamdi Ezeigbo, urged budding entrepreneurs to focus on building a strong brand which would give them an edge in attracting investment opportunities and support from stakeholders.

“It is important for entrepreneurs to understand their business capabilities and align it with their business strengths,” he stated.

Ezeigbo implored them to re-engineer their process in identifying the right people that the business needed to succeed in ensuring synergy of objectives and growth.

He said, “It is important for businesses to understand their competitor’s strengths and weakness, which will help in developing innovative strategies as well as pre-empting their activities, but also key for every entrepreneur is to build strategic alliances and partnerships as strong networks help to grow brands and businesses.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]