Terminal operator seeks more patronage of Calabar port
Anna Okon

One of the concessionaires at the Calabar Port, ECM Terminals Limited, has called for more patronage of the port.

This is following the successful berthing of a container vessel, Marguisa Shipping Line’s container vessel, MV Boreas at the port recently.

The General Manager, ECM, Diran Akorede, gave the assurance that the terminal had capacity to handle more container ships.

He said before the docking of the container vessel, the port had only been handling bulk cargoes that came in chartered vessels.

Historically, Calabar port suffered patronage of container liners due to draft limitations on the channel. The channel with a draft of 6.4 metres at high tide requires a draft of 9.4 metres to attract regular and bigger tonnage.

Akorede said the berthing of the MV Boreas signified a milestone achieved through the strategic marketing of Ecomarine Terminals Limited.

He added that ECM Terminal was ready to receive more container vessels with its ultra-modern cargo handling equipment.

“The berthing of the container vessel at our facility on Monday was the crowning moment of the several marketing efforts to attract a liner service to Calabar over the years,” he said.

He acknowledged the purposeful partnership they had enjoyed with the Nigerian Ports Authority over the years.

He noted that the agency’s Managing Director, Hadiza Bala-Usman, had from inception given priority to resolving some of the key challenges that have bedevilled the port.

He pleaded with the NPA to complete the dredging of the port.

He said in preparation for receipt of container vessel, the terminal had invested massively on container handling equipment from inception of the concession most of which had been idle ever since.

He said, “We are ISO certified and have well documented processes to ensure transparency and efficiency in our service delivery. Our systems are fully automated and the facility is fully ISPS compliant.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]