ExxonMobil, partners hold skill acquisition programmes for youths
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

About 900 students from 30 schools in the Federal Capital Territory participated in the recent Power Forward programme organised by Exxonmobil in partnership with Africare and National Basketball Association.

According to ExxonMobil, the Power Forward programme was an initiative put together to teach literacy and life skills such as leadership, respect and personal responsibility to youths through basketball and other programmes.

The General Manager, Government and Business Relation, ExxoMobil Nigeria, Nigel Cookey-Gam, stated that the bedrock of any nation or any entity was the youth.

He noted that harnessing youths the right time, as well as developing and nurturing them would lead to successful outcome.

Cookey-Gam said, “This is a youth development initiative that ExxonMobil, NBA and Africare have put together to teach literacy and life skills such as leadership, respect and personal responsibility to youths.

“The teaching could be through basketball and other programmes so that we will positively impact Nigerian students across the country.”

He stated that for the past six years, partners in the programme had been consistent in promoting the initiative.

Cookey-Gam said, “We are really glad about the programme. For us in ExxonMobil, as an oil and gas company, we ask ourselves sometimes about what we are doing in sports and youth development.

“So we are very focused on health and wellness because if we don’t have healthy population, we cannot have a successful population. That is what drives us in what we do.”

The oil firm official said ExxonMobil was committed to developing sustainable long-term community assistance initiative in Nigeria, such as the Power Forward programme.

“We do many things in the areas of malaria treatment, health education, as well as capacity building. And that is what we focus on,” Cookey-Gam stated.

He promised that the firm would continue to support initiatives that would empower Nigerian youths and make them impact positively on their various communities.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]