IOSCO to launch 2019 world investor week
he International Organisation of Securities Commissions is preparing to launch its third annual world investor week in the first week of this month.

The Securities and Exchange Commission said the investor week would be a week-long global campaign aimed to promote investor education and investor protection.

It said the IOSCO members would provide, in their jurisdictions, a wide variety of activities such as launching publications or services, promoting contests and organising workshops, conferences and other events.

The statement read in part, “Given today’s digital environment, the WIW 2019 includes key messages regarding online investing, digital assets and initial coin offerings, as well as re-emphasising the basics of investing.

“In last year’s WIW, IOSCO members and stakeholders from some 90 jurisdictions on six continents undertook a range of activities, such as offering investor-focused information and services, promoting contests to increase awareness of investor education initiatives, organising workshops and conferences and launching local/national campaigns in their jurisdictions.”

The acting Director-General, SEC, Ms Mary Uduk, said the commission was determined to ensure that capital market investors were adequately protected in all transactions.

She said, “As you are aware, we have a number of initiatives that we have put in place to boost investors’ confidence. We have the e-dividend mandate management system, the direct cash settlement as well as regularisation of multiple subscriptions in place.

“Considerable progress has been made in the implementation of the consolidation of multiple shareholder accounts and electronic dividend mandate management system as so far, about 3.4 billion shares have been consolidated.”

The Chair, IOSCO Board/Chief Executive Officer, Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, Ashley Alder, said, “This initiative evidences IOSCO’s continuous efforts and commitment to investor education and protection, encouraging new initiatives among IOSCO members and preparing them for dealing with the challenges of increasingly interconnected and digitalised capital markets.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]