WASRA solicits funds for infrastructure
Feyisayo Popoola

The West Africa Securities Regulators Association has stated its key mandate of providing the necessary regulatory platform for capital market operators to play a major role in mobilising funds.

The acting Director-General, Securities and Exchange Commission, Nigeria, Ms Mary Uduk, said the funds, when mobilised, would be used to finance infrastructure, which would contribute to the development of the process that would integrate and ultimately develop the regional capital market.

Uduk stated that the WASRA Council had commenced registration for the inaugural Biennial West Africa Capital Market Conference scheduled to hold this month in Cote D’ivoire.

She said the conference was themed ‘Positioning West Africa capital markets to achieve sustainable and real economic growth through integration and sound regulation’.

The statement read in part, “The conference seeks to provide a forum for key stakeholders to discuss the pertinent issues relating to infrastructure financing across the region as well as proffer solutions or recommendations that will help shape the development and integration of the region’s capital markets.

The conference will feature over 40 distinguished speakers and panelists, from Africa and beyond, including senior policy makers, business leaders, investors, thought leaders, and keynote speakers such as the Director, FSD Africa, Mark Napier; Director-General, West Africa Monetary Institute, Dr Eunice Egbuna; and Special Adviser to the Prime Minister in charge of Public Private Partnerships, Burkina Faso, Constatin Dabiré.”

The statement added that the conference was expected to feature sessions on financing infrastructure deficit in the region through the capital market, sustainable financing, capital market integration and fintech, investor protection in an era of integration and the contribution of investment funds to financing the regions needs, among others.

Uduk stated that the challenges facing regulators and market operators in regulating cross border activities and bodies, raising inter-regional funds and listings would be adequately addressed.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]