NSE, GRI, Dangote Cement host sustainability workshop
Feyisayo Popoola

The Nigerian Stock Exchange, in partnership with Dangote Cement Plc and Global Reporting Initiative, held a capacity development workshop on sustainability value proposition and reporting for accountants, financial analysts and communication practitioners.

The NSE said in a statement that the workshop was driven by the need to demonstrate the relationship between financial and non-financial functions and the strong synergy between the two in achieving business continuity.

It said the Exchange realised the crucial role played by accountants, financial analysts and communications professionals in facilitating behavioural change in support of achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.

According to the statement, the workshop was designed in collaboration with GRI as part of the collaborative partnership to improve the performance and disclosure of Environmental, Social and Governance issues across the ecosystem of the NSE.

The Divisional Head, Shared Services, NSE, Bola Adeeko, while speaking at the event, said the NSE recognised the need to avoid the separation of sustainability from core business strategy as it involved operating in a way that took full account of an organisation’s impact on the planet, its people and the future.

Adeeko said, “At the NSE, we continually seek innovative initiatives to build competence for businesses within our ecosystem. This workshop is designed to help accountants, financial analysts and communication practitioners respond to new demands resulting from changes in the way businesses now define value creation.”

He said the session introduced participants to the concept of sustainability reporting within the context of the GRI Standards and the NSE Sustainability Disclosure Guidelines.

Adeeko added that the workshop helped accounting and investment professionals understand the role of impact measurement, innovation and value creation of sustainability reporting in improving corporate financial performance.

According to him, communications practitioners also better understood recent advances in sustainability reporting with the aim of improving reporting of sustainability issues across the capital market.

The Group Chief Sustainability and Governance, Dangote Industries Limited, Dr Ndidi Nnoli, introduced the workshop participants to the Dangote Industries value creation model, which builds on the 7 Sustainability Pillar Methodology.

She said “Our work in Dangote Cement showcases the importance of mainstreaming sustainability as the key to engendering holistic business impact, innovation and value creation.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]