NPA, BUA differ on seaport terminal’s closure
Anna Okon

The Nigerian Ports Authority and BUA Group have explained their positions concerning Terminal 8 in Port Harcourt port.

The terminal under concession to BUA Group was recently decommissioned by the NPA with the government agency barring ships from calling there following safety concerns over the dilapidation of its berths.

Responding to the decommissioning and the safety concerns raised by the NPA, BUA said it had on different occasions written to the NPA seeking approval to perform remedial works on the terminal but the approval was not granted.

It said repair works were required for the part of the Jetty in question not decommissioning or closure of the entire terminal.

NPA in its response said BUA sent a letter seeking permission to repair the jetty, 13 years after it got concession of the terminal and after its commitment to reconstruct berths 5 to 8.

Both firms spoke in separate statements made available to our correspondent on Tuesday.

In statement signed by the Assistant General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications, Ibrahim Nasiru, NPA explained that BUA had in the terms of concession agreement in 2006, agreed to commence full reconstruction of berths 5 to 8 of the port within 90 days of handover of the facility.

It said as of February 2016, 10 years after the concession, BUA had failed to commence reconstruction of the berths.

NPA added that it issued a letter at first, then two default notices drawing BUA’s attention to the lack of reconstruction that had resulted in the deterioration of berths 5 to 7 and total collapse of berth 8.

The agency added that when the concessionaire failed to respond, it issued a three-month notice of termination on BUA, citing the default notices served on them earlier.

It said BUA had responded to the termination notice by seeking and obtaining a restraining order from the court in January 2018, barring NPA from giving effect to the termination.

NPA said it obeyed the court order and allowed BUA full access to the premises.

“However, on May 16, 2019, after 18 months of having peaceful use of the Terminal, the Authority received a letter from BUA Ports and Terminals Limited.

“It informed us of the dilapidated state of the berth and stated among others things that, “The jetty is in a state of total dilapidation and in urgent need of repair or reconstruction…Our engineers have advised us that the jetty is liable to collapse at any moment…”

BUA in a statement signed by Sunday Ogieva of its Corporate Communications department, explained that NPA had an obligation to dredge the port and repair the quay apron but had failed to do so.

It added that the lease agreement between the parties provided for mutual rights and obligations and made provision for dispute resolution mechanism which explicitly stated that dispute shall be resolved by arbitration.

Explaining further, BUA said the termination of the lease agreement in 2016 prompted it to go to court and obtain an injunction against the termination.

The firm explained also that the repairs required at the terminal were as a result of the activities of hoodlums who over the years had cut the pipes and steel beam of the berth, thereby affecting their stability.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]