Union Bank secures $200m funding for SMEs
Nike Popoola

Union Bank of Nigeria Plc says it has secured $200m funding via a partnership with sub-Saharan Africa financial services group, Atlas Mara Limited.

This,it said, was in agreement with Overseas Private Investment Corporation, the US government’s development finance institution.

Under the terms of the agreement, Union Bank will receive a 10-year term loan of up to $200m from OPIC for investments in digitisation, on-lending to the Small and Medium Enterprises and funding for women-led businesses.

A statement indicated that this was part of OPIC’s 2X Women’s initiative which aimed to catalyse $1bn for investment in women across developing nations.

The bank said that the agreement was consistent with Union Bank’s long-standing commitment to enabling enterprise and empowering women-owned businesses.

Earlier this year, it added, Union Bank launched Alpher (α), a proposition aimed at uplifting women across all segments of the Nigerian society through capacity building opportunities, networking platforms, scholarships and tailored financial services for women.

Last year, Union Bank also introduced an innovative business acceleration programme, ‘Start- up Connect’, which enabled Nigerian businesses to create technology-based solutions to be more competitive in the rapidly expanding African technology market.

It stated that the bank had been steadfast in providing innovative services where SMEs can access up to $20,000 per quarter for importation without opening Letters of Credit or Bills for Collection under the Form Q scheme.

Speaking on the funding milestone, the Chief Executive Officer, Union Bank, Emeka Emuwa, said,“We welcome this partnership with OPIC as we are well-positioned in Nigeria to further advance lending to key segments of the population, especially SMEs. The 10-year tenor of the OPIC facility provides flexibility to maximise impact across key sectors of the Nigerian economy as we continue to advance proven initiatives including those focused on women’s banking and financial inclusion.”

The President and Chief Executive Officer, OPIC, David Bohigian, said, “OPIC is delighted to partner Atlas Mara and the team at Union Bank to drive inclusive leading in Nigeria.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]