Tips for being a responsible borrower
Loans are a convenient way to grow your business and protect it during lean times. However, when you take out a loan, you are obligated to meet certain repayment conditions that could negatively impact your small business if you are not careful. By following these tips for being a responsible business borrower, you can use loans to your advantage without hurting your business, according to fundbox.com/blog

Start by building a solid foundation with your vendors

Being a responsible borrower often begins before you ever go to a financial institution for a loan. Establishing good relationships with your vendors can be a huge help when money gets tight. You may even be able to avoid taking out loans entirely if you can secure better terms and negotiate repayment with each vendor.

Use a loan calculator

There are plenty of free loan calculators out there. Use them first. They can help you see how much the loan will cost you overall as well as give you an estimate of monthly, weekly, or daily payments. With this information, you will have a better sense of how much you can afford to borrow.

Know your debt-to-income ratio

Your debt-to-income ratio is a comparison of your annual profit to your annual debt. If your ratio is 1.0 or greater, you are in a good position for a loan. Of course, the better the ratio, the better your chances of getting a loan and lowering your costs. Anything below 1.0 should be a warning sign that you are spreading your income too thin, and that you should reconsider taking on any additional debts.

Give yourself a financial cushion

How much you should save will depend on the size of your business and the nature of your industry, but saving enough capital to cover six months of business expenses is ideal. Not only does this make you look like an ideal borrower to lenders, but it gives you the capacity to handle some emergency costs without having to borrow and lower your debt-to-income ratio.

Draft a solid business plan

Smart borrowers and smart business owners know that a strong business plan is essential for a small business. Write a plan for the next two years that includes quarterly and monthly income projections and provide a breakdown of your expenses. With this information, you can easily identify how much you will need to borrow and how much you will have available for repayment.

Don’t take the first offer

Shop around and compare small business loan products to make sure you are getting the best possible terms on your loan. Read the fine print, and ask questions about interest rates, early payment penalties, and other fees and charges.

Borrow only when you need to

Loans are not always the answer to your financial problems. If you need to free up cash, don’t forget to consider alternative solutions including cutting overhead, downsizing, or finding ways to increase your profit margin. Or you might want to consider advancing your invoices with a tool like Fundbox Business Financing to help manage your cash flow.

Make your payments on time

When you take out a loan, make repayments on time. If for some reasons you are unable to make a timely payment, call your lender. It is always best to maintain communication with the creditor. Not only is it the responsible thing to do, but it may also help to protect your credit rating.

Responsible borrowers are responsible business owners. And one of the most important advantages of following these tips is that they provide you with even better opportunities down the road to expand your business, borrow at better rates, or even sell.

The basics of borrowing

The interest rate

The interest rate is the lender’s charge for the use of their money. The interest rate is usually a small percentage of the amount loaned. There are two different types of interest rates: fixed or variable (a.k.a adjustable). Fixed rates are just that: fixed and unchanging. If your fixed interest rate is seven per cent, it will be seven per cent for the life of the loan.

Variable rates can change over time and are usually based on a standard market rate, such as the prime interest rate (which is the lowest rate of interest a bank can provide at a given time and place, offered to preferred borrowers).

For instance, you may take out a loan with a variable rate at prime +2. This means that you will pay two per cent more than the prime rate, regardless of what it is.

The security component

All loans are either secured or unsecured. This refers to whether you are putting up assets, often referred to as collateral, to guarantee your loan. If you have a secured loan, it means you have guaranteed your lender will be repaid one way or another by giving them a claim on something you own. If the loan goes unpaid, the lender can seize the collateral to recoup their investment. This guarantee gives lenders a great deal of security and allows them to charge low interest rates. Unsecured loans do not require any collateral from the borrower. The bank therefore has no protection if the loan goes unpaid. Unsecured loans almost always have higher interest rates than secured loans. Lending institutions sometimes require that an additional person co-sign for unsecured loans, or vow to repay the loan if the borrower fails to do so. Student loans have an advantage in that no collateral is required but they still have low interest rates.

The term

The term of a loan is the length of time that the borrower has to pay back the loan. Typically, the longer the term, the higher the interest rate. The term is the maximum length of time the borrower has to repay their loan; loans can always be paid off before the term is up.

A case study

To see how all the pieces fit together, let’s take a look at a sample loan. Karen takes out a N10,000 loan with an interest rate of 8.25 per cent and a 10-year term. Because this is a secured loan, Karen uses her car as collateral. Karen’s loan breaks down as follows: • Loan Balance: N10,000 • Loan Interest Rate: 8.25 per cent • Loan term (in years): 10 • Minimum monthly payment: N122.65 • Total payments: N14,718.49 • Total interest paid: N4,718.49 The minimum monthly payment that Karen needs to make to complete her loan within the 10-year term is N122.65. After 120 payments of N122.65, Karen will have paid off her entire loan and N4,718.49 in interest. Keep in mind that Karen can always increase her monthly payments. This will shorten her loan’s term and result in less interest paid.

For instance, if Karen decides to pay N250 each month, her repayment plan breaks down as follows: • Loan balance: N10,000 • Loan interest rate: 8.25 per cent • Monthly loan payment: N250.00 • Number of payments: 47 • Total Payments: N11,734.15 • Total interest paid: N1,734,15.

By upping her monthly payment, Karen shortens the term of her loan to 47 months, or just under four years. She also reduces the total amount of interest she pays to N1,734.15. Let’s say that, instead of upping her monthly payments, Karen skips a few. In fact, let’s say she stops paying the loan altogether.

That’s bad news for Karen. Because this is a secured loan, Karen may be kissing her car goodbye. So when you consider taking a loan, pay special attention to the basic terms to anticipate how much you will pay and how long you will be in debt.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]