FRSC, NIIT disagree on drivers’ training
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Federal Road Safety Corps has said it disagrees with the Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology’s assertion that it has no mandate to train drivers.

The FRSC said it was part of its responsibilities to ensure that motorists and motorcyclists were properly trained in the operation of their vehicles before they could apply for driving licences.

The Chairman, Governing Council of the NIIT, John Onojeharho, was quoted to have said the FRSC was among those he described as “quacks” in the training of drivers.

According to the FRSC, there are certified driving schools that conduct drivers’ training with the corps monitoring their activities to ensure compliance with standards.

In a statement signed by the Public Education Officer of the FRSC, Bisi Kazeem, the corps said it had on many occasions sent its personnel on training at the NITT, Zaria.

Kazeem said the knowledge gained from such training was of added value to the overall operations of the FRSC.

He said, “It is part of the responsibilities of the FRSC to ensure that drivers, motorists and motorcyclists are properly trained in how to operate their vehicles before they apply for the National Drivers Licence.

“There are certified driving schools that conduct such training with the corps monitoring their activities to ensure compliance with standards.”

According to him, the insinuation that the FRSC is not mandated by law to train drivers is out of place, considering that the mandate is contained in Section 10(3) c of the FRSC Establishment Act 2007.

He explained that the Act stated that part of the mandate of the FRSC would be “to educate drivers, motorists and members of the public generally on the proper use of the highways.”

Kazeem said the FRSC was especially concerned with the safety of lives and property on the roads which had necessitated the organisation to engage in training workshops to educate fleet operators on the minimum safety standards needed to operate their vehicles.

“In addition, the FRSC is saddled with the responsibility to regulate the establishment and certification of driving schools that are registered to train drivers in the operation of vehicles and the proper use of roads, and these driving schools are owned by private operators,” he added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]