‘We will drive financial inclusion with technology’
Nike Popoola

The Manager of the Idumota Branch of SunTrust Bank, Olajumoke Alabi, says the bank is committed to driving financial inclusion with technology in order to give more Nigerians access to financial services.

This, she said, was in line with the directives of the Central Bank of Nigeria.

She said the bank would focus on the micro, small and medium enterprises to help them grow their business because of their relevance to the economy.

Alabi, who noted that the country was blessed with large market of entrepreneurs, gave the assurance that the bank was prepared to explore it to develop the economy.

In a statement, she spoke during the opening of the bank’s branch at Idumota in Lagos.

She said, “The SME market is a large one that no single financial institution can fully exhaust. But what SunTrust is doing that is different from other commercial banks is that we go to the smallest of the customers out there even to the informal traders.

“We extend our services to them in order to help them grow their businesses.

“We also offer them temporary overdraft with highly competitive interest rates compared to others. Consequently, that has endeared us to our customers and the market. The SMEs you have in this area are informal in nature.”

While speaking on how the bank intended to woo the unbanked Nigerians in the next few years, Alabi said it planned to deploy financial technology to achieve the goal of bringing the unbanked rural dwellers.

“Today, we still have a lot of unbanked Nigerians, and the problem usually is going into the banking hall. When you have bank in rural areas, prospective customers may not have the interest of going there. But what SunTrust wants to do is to deploy cutting-edge financial technology to achieve this.

“Today, a lot of people have access to cell phone, with our code, prospective customers can open an account without coming to the bank’s main building or see anybody physically.”

She added that the bank was using technology to drive financial inclusion.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]