FG to create more jobs via YouWin
Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja

The Federal Government is targeting to reduce the number of unemployed people in the country through the Youth Enterprise with Innovation in Nigeria Connect programme.

The YouWiN Connect is the Federal Government’s education programme which was established in 2011 to midwife enterprises across the country.

It is aimed at equipping young Nigerian with tools, skills, education and information required to build and grow successful businesses.

Speaking at a book launch and awards ceremony for the programme, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, said the government was using the initiative to catalyse the emergence of the next generation of successful Nigerian-owned enterprises.

She said through the programme, the government would continue to create avenues for investors to fund the Small and Medium Enterprises sector of the economy.

This, according to her, will facilitate job creation in targeted sectors of national importance.

She said, “YouWIN Connect as we already know is a multimedia based enterprise education initiative of the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning which supports young Nigerian entrepreneurs in line with our 2019 – 2023 key priority projects.

“YouWIN Connect is a subset of our overall strategies towards realising Mr President’s promise to take 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in the next ten years.

“The activities embedded in promoting entrepreneurship as a viable career option for young Nigerians will in turn create more jobs and wealth; generate the needed critical mass, spurring entrepreneurship mind-set change among the teeming youths through enterprise education.”

While unveiling the book, “Successful Nigerian entrepreneurs: How they started,” the minister said it would motivate others.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]