Guinness, UNITAR, FRSC renew partnership to save lives
Rasheed Bisiriyu

The Federal Government has reinstated its resolve to ensure maximum safety on the nation’s roads by reducing the number of road traffic crashes related to drinking and driving.

To this end, it promised to collaborate with the organised private sector on the road safety initiative.

It is expected that the collaboration will reduce road accidents, injuries and death by 50 per cent by 2020.

These assurances were given during the renewal of the partnership agreement involving Guinness Nigeria Plc, the United Nations Institute for Training and Research and the Federal Road Safety Corps.

The Corps Marshall, FRSC, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, said the corps remained committed to efforts at ensuring safer roads at all times, including the High Visibility Enforcement training.

He spoke at a two-day HVE workshop in Lagos, which involved practical checkpoint exercise and use of breathalyzers.

Oyeyemi said, “We are very committed to improving road safety in Nigeria all year round. Our officers are very excited at the training opportunities provided by this partnership. Renewing this partnership with Diageo and UNITAR is a step in the right direction and we are providing necessary measures, structures and policies to ensure that the partnership achieves its set objectives,” he said.

The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Guinness Nigeria Plc, Mr Baker Magunda, said the company would not relent in its effort at providing viable opportunities for engagement with relevant stakeholders to drive home the message of safety on the road and reducing the number of road traffic injuries and fatalities related to drinking and driving.

He said, “Guinness Nigeria is proud of the partnership with UNITAR and the FRSC. We have made some progress with regard to improving road safety in Nigeria. However, we are still intensifying motoring literacy to achieve the goal of sustainable cities and communities.

“Part of our intervention and commitment in support of the efforts of the government include providing education on the misuse and responsible consumption of alcohol while we also advocate effective policies, programmes and partnerships with relevant stakeholders in this regard.”

The Lead, Road Safety Global Initiative at UNITAR, Ms Estrella Merlos, commended the vision of both Guinness Nigeria and the FRSC, which she noted aptly aligned with the 2030 projection of the United Nations on sustainable cities and communities to save lives.

Participants at the event discussed solutions and shared best practices on road safety regulation, road and transport infrastructure, as well as pedestrians’ responsibilities and leadership.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]