Goat farming: Endless demand, good money
Arinze Onebunne

[email protected]

08033262808

Livestock producers have been breeding for better cattle, sheep, pigs, and poultry for decades, yet the concept of raising an improved goat doesn’t occur to many of them.

This is a missed opportunity, because high demand for fresh goat meat exists and there is no continuous supply of uniformly-sized meaty goats available to sell.

Farming of goats of comparable size that have more meat and less waste must be part of every goat producer’s breeding and marketing plans.

An ‘improved’ goat is a hardy, parasite-tolerant goat that has high meat-to-bone ratio and grows steadily to market weight with minimal producer-supplied feed and medical care. The goats must produce offspring of similar size and meat cover because commercial goat buyers want and pay more for a uniform product. This may sound simple, but it isn’t. Few goat breeds meet these criteria.

You can now place your order for the improved West African dwarf goat – breeding stock (Ages 10-14 months) from Jovana Farms.

I am a firm believer that when you start a project or business, you should do it right or don’t do it at all. This approach also applies to raising goats. Historically, some people who raised goats in Nigeria had gone to roadside goat market, randomly bought cheap grade does and bucks and allow them to breed and fend for themselves.

These people usually lived off site, checked on the goats’ maybe once a week at which time they tossed out some dry corn to serve as a (poor) nutritional supplement, occasionally dewormed them, and rounded up what was left in the facility.

A 100 per cent kidding ratio (one surviving kid per doe) was acceptable because they put little money or effort into the goats.

To a large extent, goat production in Nigeria and elsewhere still follows this ‘survival of the fittest’ pattern. This is neither a recipe for raising quality animals for which premium prices can be charged nor is this a viable business plan.

Goats as a species are categorised as meat, milk, or fiber (hair). ‘Dairy’ and ‘meat’ are opposite characteristics. You cannot produce lots of meat and large quantities of milk on the same animal. Genetics just doesn’t work that way.

Raising good goats involves many things, the first of which is selecting a good breed, beginning with the buck. If you want to raise meatier goats so you can make more money, there is only one available breed in Nigeria that has exceptional meat yields: the heavier-muscled West African Dwarf-goats.

Do you know the genetic origin and meat-to-bone ratio of the goat breed that you are currently raising? Since meat is what you are selling, it makes sense to find out. This is especially important with goats because except the hides there is no significant market for the offal’s (trash, i.e. fat, hooves, teeth, and some internal organs).

When you sell a goat for meat, the buyer looks at the goat, mentally dresses it out, and offers you less for the fatty (non-meaty) animal. Fat layers on the goat is cut off and thrown away at slaughter. Fat is a major part of offals on a goat and you don’t get paid for it.

Once you have those meatier kids on the ground, you have to market them as the better product that they are if you expect to get top naira for them.

Minimum requirements necessary in order to raise quality meat goats:

Sufficient land over which goats can roam with good forage for them to eat Clean and consistent water supply Good shelter from rain, wind, heat, and cold Working pens and traps designed with goats in mind to make handling them easy, fast, and with minimal stress on both the goats and you. A working knowledge of basic goat nutrition and health. Basic protein, energy, fat, fiber, and mineral needs must be met, especially for pregnant does and growing kids Provision of a basic level of preventative medication for common health problems Ability and willingness to check on the goats on a daily basis. It is best if you live on the property where the goats live. It is extremely difficult to raise goats remotely Selection of a breed that produces lots of meat. High meat-to-bone ratio brings money to your bottom line

Goats are also susceptible to life-threatening health problems. Stomach worms, pneumonia, and coccidiosis are the most common. Others include but are not limited to tetanus, listeriosis, enterotoxemia (overeating disease), polioencephalomacia (goat polio), meningeal deerworm, caseous lymphadenitis, caprine arthritic encephalitis, Johnes disease, multiple pregnancy-related diseases and complications, and several nutritionally-related illnesses and deficiencies.

If you expect to make money raising goats, you must perform at least a minimum level of preventative care. When goats are raised under managed conditions that limit their access to what they eat and where they roam, the potential exists for producer-induced problems. Monthly random fecals count and de-worming only as needed are basic essential tasks.

To help prospective goat farmers avoid unnecessary mistakes, Jovana Farms has embarked on nationwide seminars on livestock farming for Nigerians to learn the nitty-gritty of the business in their environment. Those who cannot attend our seminars can order for our self-tutorial VCD and book, and train themselves.

Contact us for consultancy or attend Jovana Farms seminars nearest to you and discover how to breed goat! You will learn more in a day than you will in one year on your own! Can’t attend? Order for self-tutorial VCD and book N7,500.

Visit us at www.jovanafarms.com, e-mail:[email protected] or call: 080 33262 808, for more details. Choose also the nearest seminar venue from the advert box in this page or from our website.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]