Benin Disco to roll out 190,000 meters
Samuel Awoyinfa

Benin Electricity Distribution Company Plc has announced its rollout plan of 190,000 meters within the next two years in Edo under the Meter Asset Provider scheme.

A statement from the company on Tuesday indicated that to achieve this, it would roll out monthly cumulative average of 10,000 units.

The Executive Director, Commercial, Mr Abu Ejoor, made this known during the media launch of the Edo State MAP at its head office in Benin, the statement said.

He said under the scheme, it would “initially have up to three months of build-up roll out, which will eventually pick up with expected monthly rate of 20,000 and 500,000 in all, across its franchise areas.”

Ejoor added that BEDC was taking off in two major locations with the scheme – GRA to Ihama in Benin City and Okpela in Auchi North – stating that customers should cooperate with enumerators going round various locations in the state by responding promptly to request for completion of enumeration forms.

“MAP will carry out meter roll out location by location, route by route, street by street, while enumeration is a prerequisite for meters to be provided under MAP,” he said.

Ejoor said the rollout of meters would be handled by three of the company’s MAP parties, namely FLT, G-Unit Engineering and Turbo Energy.

He said, “Customers are required to complete the customer data and survey form, after which the MAP officials will assess the customer’s premises in readiness for metering. Once a customer’s premises is cleared, he will be advised on how to pay for the meter, whether single phase or three phase.”

Speaking on current power reality in Edo State, Ejoor explained that 44 per cent of BEDC’s power allocation of which nine per cent was from the national grid was devoted to the state, hinting that an average of 86,061MW of electricity was delivered to the state monthly.

He added that about 14 per cent of the power generated was lost due to poor network infrastructure, saying work was ongoing to improve the network.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]