Edo inducts 1,000 newly recruited civil servants
Anna Okon

The Edo State Government says it has commenced a three-day orientation programme for over 1,000 civil servants who were recently recruited into the state civil service.

The state added that this was in line with its governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki’s vision to reposition the state’s civil service for optimal performance.

While declaring the orientation programme open in Benin City, Obaseki who was represented by the Edo State Head of Service, Mr Isaac Ehiozuwa, said the programme was organised for officers on Grade level 07 and above who were appointed into the mainstream of the state’s civil service between 2017 and 2018.

A statement quoted the governor as saying, “These officers were absorbed into the mainstream of the civil service in 2017. They also include those recruited in 2018 by the Edo State Civil Service Commission.

“The main thrust of the exercise is to develop their capacity on rules guiding the civil service and train them on how to conduct themselves as civil servants while discharging their duties.”

He urged the participants to take advantage of the programme to understand what was required of them in the discharge of their duties.

The Permanent Secretary, Directorate of Establishments, Training and Manpower Services in the office of Head of Service, Mrs Deborah Enakhimion, said the purpose of the programme was to formally acquaint participants with necessary guidelines for conduct in the civil service, including financial instruments and other government regulations.

Enakhimion noted that over 1,000 participants from different state ministries were scheduled to partake in the programme.

In a lecture entitled ‘Rules and Ethical Principles of Civil Service,’ a retired permanent secretary, Steve Omorodion, urged the new civil servants to acquaint themselves with the civil service rules, other regulations and extant circulars so as to provide optimal service to Edo people.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]