CIPM seeks NIC’s support for labour law review
Anna Okon

The leadership of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management of Nigeria announced that it had conversations with the President of the National Industrial Court for support on the review of the Nigerian labour laws.

The President/Chairman of Council, CIPM, Mr Wale Adediran, who stated this during the 34th induction ceremony of the institute in Lagos, said the institute would soon commence a one-million signature campaign for that purpose.

Earlier, Adediran complained that the labour laws were obsolete and needed a review.

Speaking further during the induction ceremony, the CIPM president charged members of the institute to make plans that were guaranteed to achieve result.

He said, “We should be result-oriented by considering the outcome of our actions; will it favour all employees? Will it favour only the management? Will it drive overall organisational goals?

“These questions should guide our plans as human resources’ executives because we are the change agents.”

Pointing out that disruption was at the helm of operation in the human resource department, Adediran wondered if practitioners were using the disruption to the advantage of employees and the organisation.

He said, “We all know that disruption is at the helm of all our operations. But I want to ask you today; are you using these disruptive changes to the advantage of employees and the organisation?

“Or are you just playing along?

“Let’s be strategic, but even more, let’s ensure our strategic plans drive progressive outcomes for the greater good of the organisation.”

He urged the members to be credible activists in driving change in their organisations by implementing the human resource solutions that would make the workplace, organisation and the society at large a better place.

He said, “As a professional institute, we cannot over-emphasise the importance of ethical behaviour in the practice of human resource management.

“The institute’s core values of service, creativity, result, integrity, professionalism and team work should be our watchword in all professional and personal dealings.

“I want every one of you to take these core values to heart because they are the basis on which excellent and outstanding work lies.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]