NECA calls for reform in budget passage timelines
Anna Okon

The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association has called for reform in timelines for budget passage.

The association made this call on behalf of the Organised Business Sector in Nigeria.

While making the call, the Director-General, NECA, Mr Timothy Olawale, stressed that national development was premised on proper budgeting and disciplined implementation of the budget.

He said consistent delayed passage of national budget and below 50 per cent implementation over the years had contributed to Nigeria’s slow growth. Olawale noted that looking at the trend from 2014, the earliest time the national budget was passed was in 2016 and that was in the month of March. He said, “Nigeria’s fiscal year begins in January and ends in December; hence, we cannot begin to imagine the dire consequences of the late passage of the budget on national development and business growth.”

The NECA DG said in Ghana for instance, the budget for the 2019 fiscal year was approved in November 2018.

He added, “Also in Ethiopia, the budget for the 2018-2019 fiscal years was approved few days before the commencement of the fiscal year in July 2018.

“Similarly in Egypt, the budget for their 2018-2019 fiscal years was approved about a month to the commencement of the fiscal year.

“The stability and predictability of the budgetary process of these countries could be one of the reasons they are becoming the new desired destinations for foreign investments.”

Olawale equally agreed that the attempt to return the nation to a January – December budgetary year was welcome.

He added that beyond enabling the government to focus on the business of development, it would also improve investors’ confidence and aid planning for both the private and public sectors.

He said, “Businesses thrive on certainty of government policies and programmes, a return to January to December fiscal year and focussed implementation of same will, no doubt, accelerate national development.

“Implementation is largely based on availability of revenue. However, the government should do well to ensure fiscal discipline, cut wastages and put more life into the war against corruption.”

He urged speedy action by both the Executive and Legislature to make this a reality, adding that no efforts must be spared to achieve a 100 per cent implementation.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]