DBN gives more loans to women
Nike Popoola

The Development Bank of Nigeria has urged Nigerian women to sharpen their entrepreneurial skills in order to reduce the rate of unemployment and poverty in the country.

The DBN also said at the end of 2018, women entrepreneurs accounted for 73 per cent of the end-borrowers of the bank.

In a statement, the Managing Director, DBN, Mr Tony Okpanachi, said that with Nigeria’s rapid population growth and the current rate of unemployment at 43.3 per cent, over 90 million Nigerians would be unemployed by 2050.

Okpanachi, who was represented by the Business Development and Relationship Manager, Maryesther Ezeadi, observed that the National Bureau of Statistics stated that women constituted over 50 per cent of Nigeria’s population.

The statement said a recent report by the World Bank said Nigeria’s population had been increasing exponentially, with an estimated figure of 300 million by the year 2050.

He stated, “Nigerian women should see the numerous challenges in the country as opportunities to become entrepreneurs by providing solutions.

“According to the latest survey by the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria, there are 41 million Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in Nigeria.

“If each of these businesses employs four people, it would totally wipe out unemployment in Nigeria. Our population as at the last count was put at 198.5 million by World Bank. So, it is the most simplistic way of showing the power of entrepreneurship in generating employment.”

Women were also advised to persevere during challenging times in business, as the challenges faced in business provided experience which should serve as a guide to subsequently help sustain the business.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]