61 NCS deputy controllers complete training
Etim Ekpimah

Sixty-one deputy controllers of the Nigeria Correctional Service have completed an eight-week advanced management training at the service’s academy.

It was learnt that the training was aimed at repositioning the service

in line with the Nigeria Correctional Service Act, 2019, which repealed the Prison Act Cap, P29, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004.

The Comptroller-General, NCS, Alhaji Ja’afaru Ahmed, stated that human capacity development was vital in the correctional programmes for effective service delivery.

It was gathered that the officers were part of the 11th Deputy Controllers’ Command Course batch ‘C’ at the academy in Ijebu-Igbo, OgunState.

Ahmed told the course participants to justify the huge investment of the Federal Government in the service.

According to him, the service is working hard to review and expand the current curriculum to achieve its global competitiveness.

Ahmed, who was represented by Assistant Controller-General, Zone‘A’ in charge of Lagos and Ogun states, Chiabua Victor, said over 20,000officers of the service had been promoted.

He said, “This is another milestone in the history of the service, which memories will continue to linger for decades with the recent enactment of the Nigeria Correctional Service Act, 2019.

“More than 12,000 staff members of the service have gone for various training and retraining and refresher courses in the last three years of my tenure.”

Ahmed added that over 200 custodial blocks and cells had either been constructed or renovated under his watch.

The Commandant of the academy, Oluwayiopese Benson, asked for support to help the institution attain its status to attract correctional practitioners from Africa and beyond.

He appealed to community leaders and individuals to assist the service in the provision of hostels for students as well as staff quarters, adding that the facilities would be named after the donors.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]