Osun to explore tourism for revenue generation
Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo

The Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, says his administration is working towards creating alternative channels for revenue generation to complement the monthly allocations accruing to the state.

He identified development of tourists’ sites across the state as a huge revenue source, adding that Osun had comparative economic advantage in tourism, going by its array of sites that could attract local and international tourists.

Oyetola spoke at an event organised by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Culture and Tourism to mark the 2019 World Tourism Day with the theme, ‘Tourism and Jobs, a good future for all’.

He said the state was working towards total revolution in the sector to boost its Internally Generating Revenue.

The governor, who was represented by the Senior Special Assistant to the Deputy Governor, Mr Yinka Omiyale, stated that tourism has a dual advantage of boosting revenue as well as creating employment for teeming youths in the state.

A Professor of Archeology, Prof. Adisa Ogunfolakan, in his paper delivered at the event, declared that going by the number of tourist attraction centres in Nigeria, the country has more potentials than Mecca in Saudi Arabia and Jerusalem in Israel.

Ogufolakan, who is a Director at the Natural History Museum, Obafemi Awolowo University, OAU, Ile- Ife, insisted that Nigeria has greater opportunities in the tourism sector better than many countries in Europe and Asia, where tourism remains the bedrock of their national economy.

He said Osun, being the cradle of Yoruba race could generate more foreign earnings if her tourist capacities are optimally annexed.

He also implored the new administration in the state to make more funds available to the ministry in order to enhance its capacity for the purpose of turning the sector around and as well increase the state’s Internally Generated Revenue.

“There is a pathetic situation in our society that always makes me sad whenever I go out of the country and witness how so many countries of the world, who could not match Nigeria in the area of tourism potentials are generating billions of dollars through tourism while Nigeria is standing akimbo.

“What makes the trend more dangerous and seemingly hopeless is the issue of our traditional institution, where many of our royal fathers are turning into ‘born again ‘ and by so doing destroying important relics and heritage of tourist values around us,” Ogunfolakan said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]