Pan-African e-logistics firm begins operation in Nigeria
Ife Ogunfuwa

Pan-African electronic logistics company, Lori, has announced its expansion to Nigeria in a bid to extend its footprint across Africa.

This is coming 10 months after the company completed a successful pilot in Nigeria with some top cargo companies including Olam, Honeywell Flour Mills and Flour Mills Nigeria, the company said in a statement by company on Tuesday.

The firm said the expansion was a massive opportunity for it to facilitate and connect technology innovation, smart policy, government partnership, and seamless operations to continue to lower the cost of goods.

Lori noted that Nigeria was faced with port congestion and a shortage of transport options.

The logistics company pledged to solve the problem of high cost of goods across Africa, as certain countries expend 75 per cent of the cost of a product on the continent on logistics, compared to only six per cent in the United States.

In July, Lori announced the appointment of new global leadership to drive the company’s expansion efforts across Africa.

“Lori is at the forefront of revolutionising cargo transport across Africa from the ground up,” Lori Chief Operating Officer, Global, Uche Ogboi, said.

“Our mission in Nigeria is to create a more efficient logistics experience for cargo owners who are burdened with the task of moving their goods across the country.

“We have successfully created a digital platform to enable the movement of goods through a transparent supply chain management system that is affordable, reliable and flexible.”

The logistics company said it would provide value to clients in three key areas: technology, operational excellence, and customer service.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]