Verraki partner lauds Junior Achievement’s leadership qualities
Anna Okon

Managing Partner of Verraki, Mr Niyi Yusuf, has commended Junior Achievement Nigeria’s role in delivering unique, experiential programmes on work readiness, entrepreneurship and financial literacy.

Yusuf gave the commendation ahead of JAN’s 20th anniversary celebration.

He recognized the JAN initiative and its leadership’s commitment to pooling resources from the private and public sectors to improve the delivery of entrepreneurial education to Nigerian youths, adding that this played a role in igniting the spark in young people to enable them experience the world of business and realise the opportunities and realities of work and life in the 21st century.

According to him, JAN has mentored a significant number of Nigeria’s leading entrepreneurs in various sectors and created a bridge between the classroom and the workplace for children and young adults.

He said, “Nigeria needs conscientious business leaders who focus on ‘being’ over ‘having’; leaders who believe in living a mission-based life of impact and purpose. JAN nurtures this, with an environment and training that bridges the gap between knowledge, skills and real societal problems.

“I feel privileged to have been part of this idea as a volunteer from Andersen Consulting during the early days of JAN and the organisation has now impacted and trained over 970,000 Nigerians with more than 4,000 volunteers since inception almost 20 years ago. JAN has started a movement that will continue to drive change in young people.”

JAN is a member of Junior Achievement Worldwide, a non-profit economic education organisation dedicated to empowering students on financial literacy, work readiness and entrepreneurship through experiential, hands-on programmes.

It collaborates with JA-Nigeria board members such as Dangote, First Bank, Citi Bank, Stanbic IBTC, Deloitte, Schlumberger, Verraki Partners, Sigma Pensions among others.

According to the statement, as part of its 20th Anniversary, JAN will host a youth summit themed “Creating an agenda for the youth and the future of Nigeria” with discussions on leadership, entrepreneurship and capacity building, especially within the context of the digital economy and corporate governance and sustainability.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]