RIMSON to boost risk management system
Nike Popoola

The President, Risk Managers Society of Nigeria, Raymond Akalonu, says the body will continue to provide veritable platforms for continuous risk management education and the regeneration of technical skills and expertise for effective risk management development and practice in the country.

Akalonu said it remained committed to the ethos of risk management as enunciated by the guiding principles and fundamental objectives of the society.

He spoke while unveiling his focus as the new president of the society during his investiture in Lagos.

The new president said, “We stand before you committed to the furtherance of the risk management ideals our body stands for. We pledge our individual and collective resolves to take RIMSON to greater heights and to ensure that the risk management advocacy fire keeps burning bright.

“Although it is difficult to list all the possibilities ahead of our burning desires to serve, we nevertheless wish to provide the following signposts for the journey we commence today.”

Akalonu said his team would maintain and sustain RIMSON’s existing affiliation with global risk management bodies such as membership of International Federation of Risk and Insurance Management Association, and leverage these affiliations for the development of risk management in Nigeria.

He said it remained committed to the reinforcement and conclusion of on-going collaboration with the Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation, towards entrenching risk management culture in all government agencies and parastatals in Nigeria.

While mentioning that the society would work assiduously towards making RIMSON the hub of risk management development in the West African sub-region by deploying CRMD’s online outreach and growth potentials, he said it would continually strengthen the research potentials and capabilities of RIMSON and ultimately guarantee more regular risk management reports on major national disasters with suggested mitigants and solutions.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]