RIFAN moves against fake insurance, claims default
Nike Popoola

Retail Insurance Family Association of Nigeria has expressed itsdetermination to address challenges of fake insurance policies and non-payment of claims that are affecting the growth and practice of underwriting business in the country.

The Chairman, RIFAN, Akin Bello, stated this at a stakeholders’ meeting organised by the association in Abuja.

In a statement, he said the aim of the body was to protect the insured public and maintain orderliness in the insurance market.

“At a time when the nation’s insuring public is staring in disbelief at myriads of problems from fake polices being issued to them by fake agents that make it difficult for them to get their claims, a robust platform such as RIFAN is indeed what the insured need now from the insurance industry to bring the desired confidence,” he said.

Bello posited that the association had a commitment to improving conduct, integrity and trustworthiness of the insurance market.

He observed that in his tenure as the national chairman, it had become obvious that there were actions that must be simultaneously unshackled to ensure enforcement and general operations of insurance practice.

He said that the association would continue to collaborate with insurers to ensure better use of technology in keeping pace with the tremendous growth in the sector, adding that technology had been the overall enhancer of business operations across the globe.

He maintained that RIFAN was a technology centric platform and that it would make its solutions available to both the insurer and the insured.

Bello added that insurers needed to improve their rules for electronic record keeping and reporting so as to ensure a real-time seamless information retrieval process.

The Director-General of the association, Ali Theophilus, assured insurers and the insuring public that in 2020, the issue of fake insurance agents and certificates would be a thing of the past through the help of the National Insurance Commission.

He said that the body was determined to create wealth for the insurance industry through public enlighten and use of technology.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]