UBA improves intra-African trade, financial inclusion
Nike Popoola

United Bank for Africa Plc has assured its customers that it is dedicated to facilitating intra-African trade and financial inclusion by providing premium services through consistent innovation and relentless investment in technology.

The bank said this was targeted towards spurring financial inclusion on the continent.

Its Group Executive, Transformation and Resources, Chiugo Ndubisi, stated these during the Africa Day Celebration at the 2019 Lagos International Trade Fair, with the theme, ’Boosting intra-African trade: Institutions, finance and technology’.

Ndubisi said, “As Africa’s global bank, we understand the importance of intra-African trade. Therefore, we have put services in place to support this. With Africash, our intra-African money transfer services, customers can easily move money around for trade and investment within the continent.

“More importantly, financial institutions like the UBA have taken up the financial inclusion challenge, using different digital channels to expand access to financial services.”

He said, “In our quest to make every UBA branch a home branch to our customers, regardless of the African country they come from, we introduced UBAConnect, a service that has effectively supported trade in the Central African Economic and Monetary Community region. We have recorded massive success in this regard.”

Ndubisi added that UBA customers in the CEMAC region – Gabon, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Republic of the Congo and Equatorial Guinea – could enjoy instant access to their accounts in the bank’s branches anywhere within the region.

He explained that these services were in line with the bank’s belief that greater access to financial services could contribute to increase in the productivity of businesses, especially micro, small and medium scale enterprises, which were engines of economic growth on the continent.

“At UBA, we are excited about the possibilities the future holds for intra-African trade, with the required number of countries ratifying the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement. The agreement will create a single African market of more than a billion consumers with a total GDP of over $3tn. UBA is well positioned to support individuals and businesses when AfCFTA comes into force,” he noted.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]