Lagos Trade fair, successful despite border closure –Sanwo-Olu
Anna Okon

The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, says the 2019 Lagos International Trade has been a huge success despite the closure of Nigeria’s borders.

He made this declaration on Sunday at the Lagos State Day organised to mark the end of the fair.

The governor, who was represented by the state Commissioner for Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives, Mrs Lola Akande, commended the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, organisers of the fair, for “the highly impressive organisation and successful turnout recorded at this year’s fair in spite of the socio-economic climate occasioned by the current border closure.”

He said he approved the state sponsorship of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises to give them an opportunity to exhibit alongside large corporations and multinational companies at the fair.

Sanwo-Olu pledged to continue to build on the legacies of his predecessors by supporting the growth of the local economy, improving the ease of doing business, providing easy access to finance, repositioning the public sector to support businesses and accelerating infrastructure interventions.

In order to complement ongoing progress in the Lekki Free Zone, the governor pledged to fast-track development of the Lekki-Epe road and a world-class international airport.

The President, LCCI, Mr Babatunde Ruwase, said, “Despite the evident limitations of the business environment, infrastructure challenges, recent border closure and the state of the economy, we have been able to hold a successful fair.”

He however called on the government to facilitate the process of providing a permanent site for the event, saying that the cost implication of setting up structures only to dismantle them at the end of the fair was huge.

He said, “The exhibitors and we are faced annually with the challenge of construction of many temporary structures and rental of tents and other facilities for the fair.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]