Pertinence unveils funding initiative for potential homeowners
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Real estate development firm, Pertinence Limited, says it plans to empower Nigerians by providing means of funding for homeownership.

The firm stated that its target was to empower about 100,000 people in the next 10 years through enterprise and real estate investment.

At the unveiling of its new product, Realvest, created as real estate thrift, the co-Founder of the company, Mr Sunday Oluwaseyi, said the purpose of establishing the platform was to create wealth for the people as well as the organisation.

He explained that Realvest would enable investors to invest and earn as much as a 50 per cent return on their investment as against other investment plans which the company had introduced in the past, such as Petty Save, which offered a 20 per cent return on investment.

“Realvest has two different plans which one can invest in. The first plan has a maturity of 18 months and gives a 50 per cent return on investment while the other gives you a 25 per cent return on investment with a 12-month maturity period,” he said.

Oluwaseyi said many people who needed houses could not afford, hence the need to devise means of bringing them close to their dreams.

He said, “Some people may not have the money to buy land. So we felt Realvest can solve this problem. The money is practically guaranteed. We are guaranteeing that this particular investment offer will succeed because we are going to drive it.

“Another aspect of Realvest is that you can actually refer people and make money. So, it is not only about you reinvesting, it is also about you making money from every other person you refer to Realvest.”

He said the firm planned the hold a summit in February 2020, where a raffle draw would be held for every investor in Realvest to win prizes ranging from an all-expenses-paid trip to Dubai, a car and a house in Lekki, among others.

“Realvest has a time limit, from now up until December 31, 2019. After December 31, the investment option ends but the Realvest growth continues,” he said.

Co-Founder and Executive Director, Pertinence, Mr Wisdom Ezekiel, said Realvest was a targeted investment.

“It means that if you are not able to do it between now and December 31, you may not be able to take advantage of it. But apart from Realvest, we have other investment platforms. Their returns may not be as high as Realvest,” he added.

He said the firm had also made plans for investors to be able to use their funds to purchase properties in any of its estates.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]