Lagos seeks residents’ cooperation on road repairs
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Lagos State Government has asked residents to cooperate with its officials as it is set to begin road repairs in the Somolu Local Government Area.

The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako, stated that the state government needed the cooperation of residents of Fadipe Street for the smooth commencement of the reconstruction of the road in the area.

Salako during a meeting with residents and other stakeholders, where he was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mr Foluso Dipe, said the existing road would be upgraded to provide economic benefits to the people.

He said the benefits would include improved aesthetic value of the area, improved connectivity, rental and capital value as well as improved level of socio-cultural interaction and evolution.

“This road reconstruction is in line with the determination of the administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to provide key infrastructure that is vital to development. This target can be achieved more easily with the cooperation and total support of the citizenry,” he said.

Salako urged residents of the area to cooperate with the contractor in actualising the project as it was intended to provide relief.

“I want to reiterate that this project is your project, which you all need to rally round and see to fruition. Therefore, it is in the paramount interest of members of the community to jealously guide and monitor the facility for it to serve us for long,” he said.

According to him, the Lands Bureau will be contacted to compensate the affected property owners within the right of way of the project, adding that the process of payment of compensation will be part of the package for owners of property that will be affected.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]