Sigma tasks professionals on continuous capacity building
Nike Popoola

The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Sigma Pensions, Mr Dave Uduanu, has urged investment officers and financial analysts to ensure continuous training and certifications to enhance their careers.

He made this call at the Chartered Financial Analysts’ Society of Nigeria career fair in Lagos.

It was an event where financial institutions, Pension Fund administrators and investment banking firms gathered to mentor and recruit students and early career personnel.

Uduanu was part of a panel discussion with other chief executives where they deliberated on how to ‘Leverage the CFA designation across different stages of career.’

He urged the participants to be CFA certified, adding that it was important to career development.

Uduanu said, “For people who want to be financial analyst, investment bankers and play in the financial sector, it is important to be chartered.

“But more importantly even after you are chartered, you need to continue to read and go for training programmes and the CFA programme itself is a premier certification for investment management professionals in the world.”

While speaking on why Sigma pension sponsored the fair, he said, “This is the first time the CFA society is doing this fair and it is fair for students, candidates in early stage and workers who are in investment industry and are interested in understanding the opportunities in that space.

“And we felt since Sigma is an investment management company, it would be good to position ourselves before these potential employees as a brand that recognises talent, recruits and is willing to nurture talent.

“It also reinforces our interest in furthering the investment management practice in Nigeria and we thought we should support the CFA in this initiative.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]