Lamborghini showcases first hyper car
Rasheed Bisiriyu

Italian automobile firm, Lamborghini, made history at the just concluded Frankfurt auto show in Germany with the introduction of its first performance hybrid car, Sian.

Frankfurt is where one of the biggest global auto shows is staged annually. It is therefore not surprising that the premium automaker, Lamborghini, has chosen to launch its first hyper car, Sian, at the auto show.

The Sian is Lamborghini’s first foray into the world of hybrid tech on a production car, and it marks the beginning of a new electrified era, according to carmagazine.co.uk.

Lamborghini says the limited-edition of the hybrid-powered Sian will be available, adding that only 63 units are being made, and all of them have been booked or sold already.

Engine performance

The company owned by the Volkswagen Group through its subsidiary Audi says the new car is armed with a roaring 6.5 litre V12 engine and equipped with new super-capacitor technology.

It says the new Lamborghini is the world’s most advanced hybrid supercar. The engine produces 774 horsepower, which is 15 more than the Aventador, and this engine is mated to a powerful 34hp electric 48v motor.

In total, the Lamborghini Sian boasts 808hp. With an acceleration time of 0 to 60 in 2.8 seconds, the Sian is the fastest Lamborghini yet. It can hit 218mph.

Sián, thunderbolt in Bologna’s dialect, is a name that underscores various aspects of the car; its speed, which goes beyond 350km/h; its impetuous beauty, the close ties with the Bologna area.

Apart from the new power train, the Sian is very much like the Aventador, though the interior has a slightly different theme.

The Lamborghini’s Chief Technical Officer, Maurizio Reggiani, is quoted as saying, “With this car, we set ourselves the challenge of creating the best hybrid solution for a Lamborghini super sports car to provide the first step in our electrification strategy.”

“Power, beauty and the iconic Lamborghini V12 engine are coupled with an electric boost to create an unrivaled gem of engineering and technology characterized by genuine Lamborghini DNA.”

Exterior

The the Sián FKP 37 has sharp lines, aerodynamic elegance and an unmistakable silhouette. Its wholly carbon fibre body is said to leave its admirers breathless. The electro-chromic roof and moving surfaces controlled by smart materials are sculpted by innovative lines.

According to the automaker, the Terzo Millennio-inspired headlights leave behind an indelible luminous signature that will shape future Lamborghini designs.

In its review, carmagazine.co.uk notes that the Y-shaped headlights and carbon-fibre splitter are heavily inspired by the EV concept of two years ago, while at the back, an active wing lifts to merge flush with a pair of vertical winglets with ‘63’ emblazoned on them.

A transparent ‘Peroscopio’ glass panel runs from the centre of the roof and rolls back into the slatted engine cover adds light and bonus visibility for those inside, and Lambo says the six hexagonal headlights are a nod to the 80’s icon.

Interior

“Inside the Lamborghini Sián, luxurious Italian craftsmanship meets technology and comfort,” says the Italian automaker.

It also notes that the vehicle’s interior is designed to give the best-driving experience possible: comfort with an adrenaline-charged feeling of acceleration.

The recurring elements of Lamborghini design are featured on the inside: the Y-shaped stylistic features, the hexagon and the meticulous attention to perfection in every detail.

It describes the new Lamborghini Sián as a technological marvel that is able to fire up incredibly strong emotions.

“The most extraordinary innovation is the hybrid system, aimed at providing power and lightness at the same time. The innovative lightweight mild-hybrid architecture has a lithium-ion super capacitor, which is three times more powerful than a battery of the same weight,” it says.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]