Safety: NPA bars vessels from BUA terminals
Anna Okon

The Nigerian Port Authority has barred vessels from calling at Terminal B, Rivers Port Complex over safety concerns.

Our correspondent gathered that the concessionaire of the terminal, BUA, had written to the NPA about its plan to fix berths and quays needing repairs.

A member of the Board of Trustees of the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, White Harry, was quoted in a report as saying that the decision by the NPA to stop vessel call at the BUA Ports and Terminals had left many port workers jobless.

He recalled that when the NPA Managing Director, Hadiza Bala-Usman, visited the eastern ports on a familiarisation tour about two years ago, she was not impressed about the condition of the berths and quays at the terminal.

He said, “So when BUA wrote to the NPA just recently that berths 5, 6, 7 and 8 needed repairs, the concessionaire played into the hands of the port authority because the NPA was already not satisfied with the management of the Terminal B of the Rivers Port Complex.

“Berth 8 had been very bad for more than three years, and the NPA didn’t like it. The NPA expected BUA to have done something about it long ago. So, writing to the NPA that it wants to fix berths 5, 6, 7 and the already bad berth 8 made the NPA to suspend vessel call at the terminal.

“Without any vessel call at Terminal B, that means no work for dockworkers at the facility. The case is currently in arbitration but our members who are dockworkers have no jobs to do because of the ban on vessel call by the NPA.”

The NPA spokesman, Adams Jatto, was quoted as saying that it was BUA that wrote to the agency, stating that berths 5, 6, 7 were no longer safe and needed to be repaired.

“We received a letter from BUA that the Terminal B is no longer safe for operations, and that they would like to carry out repair work at the terminal. So, we replied them that in line with international practice as regards port operation, they (BUA) cannot be working in an environment that is not safe. That is why we stopped vessel call at the facility until that the place is safe for berthing of ships.”

Our correspondent also reached out to BUA’s Head of Corporate Communications, O’tega Ogra, who also confirmed the development.

He, however, said that the NPA did not penalise BUA for any wrongdoing.

Our correspondent also gathered that in the light of the impending repairs, the NPA had felt the need to stop vessels from calling at the terminal until the job was concluded.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]