Fidson shareholders approve N312.95m dividend payment
Feyisayo Popoola

Shareholders of Fidson Healthcare Plc have approved the payment of N312.09m dividend for the 2018 financial year.

The Chairman, Fidson Healthcare, Mr Segun Adebanji, while speaking at the company’s Annual General Meeting in Lagos, said the board of directors proposed a dividend of 15 kobo per share, which translated to N312.95m.

He noted that the company recorded an increased turnover of 15 per cent from N14.06bn in 2017 to N16.23bn in 2018, adding that its profit after tax dropped to N160.9m in 2018 from N1.6bn in 2017, due to the increased cost of sale.

According to him, having concluded its rights issue in June 2019, the company has already taken steps to improve its financial structure as the capital raise is towards refinancing expensive debt and working capital funding in a bid to improve its margins.

Adebanji said the company would continue to leverage its World Health Organisation-certified factory, having recently executed a partnership with GlaxoSmithKline that would see it manufacture for its West African operations going forward.

He said, “This, alongside market penetration and cost-optimisation strategies, is part of many initiatives to sustain growth and return value to shareholders that the company is currently pursuing.

“Fidson continues to strengthen its operating facilities with expansion and retooling. Old machines and equipment have been disused and replaced with modern ones. We are currently expanding our capacity utilisation through increased production and contract manufacturing for other notable companies in the industry.”

He stated that the company was poised to reposition the business through business realignment and useful industry collaboration in order to take advantage of the growth opportunities in the market.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]