God spoke to me about sewing for men – Awopetu
Oluwafunmilayo Awopetu, 28, is the CEO of Tailored by Funmi. She speaks with OLADUNJOYE DAVID about the challenges she faces in her business

What is your educational background?

I attended Reagan Memorial Baptist Girls Secondary School, Yaba, Lagos. After trying the Unified Tertiary Matriculation examination several times and it didn’t work out, I went to learn how to fix nails.

Do you have any experience in the corporate world?

No, I don’t.

When and how did you learn tailoring?

I learnt tailoring at Tailor lo Ran Couture. I was there for about a year.

How long have you been in the business?

I started my business about a year ago.

What was the motivation?

I have always wanted to be my own boss and I felt the time was right. I also wanted to be in charge of the kind of designs I create.

What are the major challenges you have faced over the years?

Getting capital is a major challenge. It has also been quite tough getting good and reliable tailors.

How do you get customers?

I get customers mostly by word of advertising, either by myself or referal by my customers.

Have you ever thought of quitting and seeking paid employment?

I have that thought several times, but I always keep wanting to try again, and keep pushing to be successful.

Why do you sew only male attire?

God spoke to me about it – first to start tailoring, then to make clothes for guys in particular. After that, the passion for it arose in me.

How profitable is the business?

Well, it is quite profitable.

What other skills do you possess?

Actually, I can fix nails. I learnt that when I was 16 years old.

Where do you see yourself and your business in the next five years?

In the next five years, I want to have my fashion house,which will be of very high standard, with experienced tailors.

I also have a passion for training and empowering the younger generation. So, that is part of my vision.

Considering that many parents want their children to concentrate on formal education and seek white collar jobs, do you think there is any hope for entrepreneurship?

Times have changed, and things are not like what they used to be. There is definitely hope for entrepreneurship with more people joining the ranks and wanting to own their businesses. Being an entrepreneur is now seen as something prestigious, and some parents encourage and support their children to venture into it.

Do you have any employees?

Yes, I do.

What is the most influential factor in your business success?

It has been God all the way

Seeing that there are many fashion designers out there, how do you stand out?

I feel like the industry is big enough for everybody. I carve a niche for myself by creating unique, bespoke designs that I believe will stand the test of time

If you had any piece of advice to someone just starting out, what would that be?

I’d tell them to be focused and just keep going, regardless of the hurdles and obstacles on the way. Just push through, and success is definitely attainable.

What are your hobbies?

I love cooking, listening to music, and meeting new people.

What is your style?

My style can simply be described as simple and classy.

How do you like to relax?

I enjoy watching movies and hanging out with friends.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]