Tapping Free Trade Zone benefits for economic growth
In this piece, IFEANYI ONUBA examines the plan by the Federal Government to stimulate export-oriented enterprises and manufacturing through the Free Trade zones, among others

When the idea of Free Trade Zones was conceptualised by the Federal Government when it created the Nigerian Exports Processing Zones Authority in 1992, the objective was to diversify the nation’s economy away from oil, and fast-track its industrialisation.

The plan was also to stimulate export-oriented business enterprises and manufacturing, strengthening strategic national economic policies, streamlining administrative approval processes as well as providing a one-stop-shop service for businesses both within and outside Nigeria.

But after 25 years of existence, the Federal Government is reviewing the operations of the zones for the rapid industrialisation of the Nigerian economy by facilitating the development, promotion, operation, regulation and marketing of industrial clusters, industrial cities, and industrial parks across the country. This is anchored on the launched Nigeria’s Industrial Revolution Plan.

Experts say the creation of Free Trade Zones is one of the fastest ways to boost industrialisation. For instance, Mauritius and Ghana have also utilised the instrumentality of the FTZ to attract FDIs, increase export and capital flows, create jobs and upgrade into the global value network.

While the Chinese-model Special Economic Zone has become a world class model which has spurred the interest in many countries, the African experience on SEZ has been far from impressive.

In a survey carried out by Thomas Farole on the assessment of the performance of FTZs in six African countries in 2009 including Nigeria, it was noted that one of the reasons for the underperformance of economic zones in Africa is the weak business environment.

The report observed that the success of FTZs is inextricably linked to the competitiveness of the national economy.

Put differently, what will determine the success or failure of any zones is the effectiveness of the design, implementation and the continuous utilisation of the zones.

Recently, the Federal Government said the creation of Free Trade Zones was of high priority to the present administration as a means of creating jobs for Nigerians.

Based on official statistics from NEPZA, the Federal Government is targeting to attract investments of $76.25bn from some of its newly licensed free trade zones.

The zones are expected to boost the country’s industrialisation as well as boost the economic diversification agenda of the Federal Government.

In line with the NIRP, the government is looking towards using industrial zones to attract requisite investments that would develop sectors in which the country enjoys significant comparative and competitive advantages.

An analysis of some of the licensed free trade zones showed that the Nigeria international commerce city which is also known as Eko-Atlantic is expected to attract investment of $38bn.

The investment in this city is expected to create about one million jobs for the economy. In the same vein, the Nigeria Centenary City which is located in Abuja is expected to attract about $18bn investment with envisaged job opportunities put at 70,000.

From the Ogidigben Industrial Zone located in Delta State, about N15bn investment is being expected with estimated employment potential of 100,000 jobs.

For the Maritime Economic City located in Badagry, about $2.8bn investment is being expected. The investment is expected to provide 15,000 direct jobs.

In the same vein, the Badagry Creek Integrated Industrial Park is expected to attract a total investment of $1.3bn. The integrated park has the potential to create about 23,000 direct jobs.

Others are Ogogoro Industrial Park which is estimated to attract $160m with employment potential of 30,000 jobs and Nigeria Aviation Handling Company Free Trade Zone which has the potential of attracting $22m with plans to employ over 5,000 upon completion.

Similarly, statistics obtained from NEPZA showed that Dangote Free Trade Zone is expected to attract $12bn worth of investments while Tomaro Industrial Park located in Lagos is estimated to provide investment of $450m.

For Quits Aviation Services Free Zone, analysis of the figure from NEPZA showed that investment worth $215m is being projected.

To make the Free Trade Zones attractive for investors, it was learnt that the government had put in place various incentives. Some of them are complete tax holiday from all federal, state and local government taxes, rates, customs duties and excise; one-stop approval for all permits, operating licenses and incorporation papers.

The Acting Managing Director, NEPZA, Mr Terhemba Nongo, said that with the renewed commitment of the current administration to infrastructural development, investors have started having confidence in the zones.

He said during the 25-year period which the agency had been in existence, about 40 industrial parks and over 400 Free Zones Enterprises had been licensed.

The NEPZA boss also disclosed that the agency had been given approval by President Muhammadu Buhari to set up seven new Industrial parks to support the Nigeria Industrial Revolution Plan of the government.

He said the industrial parks would be located in each of the country’s six geo-political zones. He gave the locations where the parks would be sited as Lekki in Lagos; Makurdi in Benue State; Benin, Edo State; Ilorin, Kwara State; Sokoto; Gombe and Abakiliki in Ebonyi State.

He said the government would provide infrastructure in these zones and with the right investment each of the zone would provide a minimum of 350,000 direct jobs and indirect jobs of about three million.

He said the construction of each zone would cost between N50bn and N80bn, adding that with right funding, the projects could be completed within two years.

On the Calabar Free Trade Zone, Nongo said about N5bn would be needed to construct Independent Power Plant to service its activities while about N10bn would be enough to complete all infrastructural projects in Kano Free Zone.

He said, “These new industrial parks in the works would spike infrastructure development and unleash a new wave of job opportunities for our teeming youths

“It is worth stressing that with every free zone or industrial park licensing, the door is open for serious infrastructure development, and this is in terms of power, water as well as roads and even real estate, and hotels.

“NEPZA has attracted over $20bn fresh foreign direct investment into the national economy since inception and contributed a major percentage of the FDI that Nigeria attracts.”

On the challenges facing the trade zones, he said the poor state of roads, as well as the absence of a functional rail system and Inland waterways, were making the transportation of finished goods from the zones to the ports for exports difficult.

He, however, expressed optimism that with the political will shown by the President to improve the processing zones, the agency would take advantage of that move to support the industrialisation of the country.

The Minister of State, Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Mariam Katagum, said the creation of Free Trade Zones was of high priority to the present administration as a means of creating jobs for Nigerians.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]