Leveraging STEM education for national growth
Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr.

“We will always have STEM with us. Some things will drop out of the public eye and will go away, but there will always be science, engineering, and technology. And there will always, always be mathematics” – Katherine Johnson, American Mathematician, whose calculations, as a NASA employee, were critical, to the success of the first and subsequent U.S. spaceflights.

As part of the need for nation building and proper development, rooted in the art of science and technology, many African countries, that are categorised, as developing countries, have come up, with initiatives to turn the tide to their advantage. Countries like Kenya, South Africa, Nigeria and lately, Rwanda. These countries are striving to become like the United States of America, Japan, and Germany that have sowed the seed of innovative creation, in their younger generations, over time.

Nigeria, although, is among the three leading African countries, in terms of technological standing on the continent, its progress in that regard is still being hindered by a number of infrastructural and managerial issues. Nigeria can, however, no longer sulk in pity in the face of these issues. There is the need to try the fragmented approach in improving its status, as a technologically inclined country innovative growth that we desire. It can start by getting its younger population to be interested in technology.

This must have been the motivation behind a two-week Remita 2019 Summer Coding Camp organised for school kids during the last summer holidays in Lagos by SystemSpecs in partnership with TechQuest. It is very imperative that nations seeking to find themselves among the league of relevant countries must embrace STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics), education. It all begins from childhood.

With this initiative from SystemSpecs as a private institution making significant contribution to the nation’s capacity development through the summer coding camp, it is expected that more private sector initiatives will be carried out in this regard.

Everywhere around us, the touch of science has become inevitable as well as the application of technology in our everyday lives. Engineering stands its feet as the basics of any average design, while mathematics occupies an average activity in our daily lives. In their classrooms, children learn in context the connectivity between the class and the larger world around them.

The importance of STEM education is aligned to a nation’s quest for technological advancement. According to the National Science Foundation, children will need a strong foundation in STEM subjects to be successful in the information-driven age.

“In the 21st century, scientific and technological innovations have become, increasingly, important, as we face the benefits and challenges, of both globalisation and a knowledge-based economy. To succeed in this new information-based and highly technological society, students need to develop their capabilities in STEM to levels, much beyond what was considered acceptable in the past” – (National Science Foundation).

With STEM education, children are empowered with the art of creative innovation, as well as, a sound development of their analytical reasoning and critical thinking skills. What differentiates STEM subjects from the average traditional science, is the integrated learning environment, a factor that spurs children’s innate ability to learn and serves as the embryo for student learning. STEM education starts with the students while they are very young.

At the elementary stage, basically, the nursery or early basic classes, STEM education, has its focus on the introductory level and awareness of STEM in various fields and occupations. At this stage, the children’s interest gets spurred to pursue science. For the middle school stage, which is the primary or the higher basic classes, the horizon of STEM education is widened as more interest and development of creative skills gets enhanced.

Getting to the secondary stage, STEM education emphasises on its application, in more challenging scenarios. This stage often, prepares the students for post-secondary education and employment.

STEM education would play an important role, in sustaining the growth and stability of Nigeria’s economy if fully embraced. Its full implementation is a sure recipe in the critical component, to helping the country stand on its feet, among the comity of nations. STEM education gifts the society, with an increased literacy in science, provides critical thinkers and creates the next set of future innovators.

“There is the need to infuse STEM education into the thinking of the young ones, such that they have the mindset to become innovators, rather than, just consumers,” emphasised Aderemi Atanda, Executive Director, SystemSpecs, during the coding camp.

For a nation to flourish in innovative technological breakthroughs, there has to be deliberate and methodical plans on ground, to achieve such and the leaders of African countries, should realise this and work on it.

“Nation building does not happen by chance and luck. It is a long-term investment, so, what you do at this point, is to catch them young. We don’t want to continue to wait for the government. We want to make sure Nigeria becomes the destination of technological skills,” stressed Atanda.

Innovation in the young minds, leads to the creation of new products and processes that can further keep the economy sustained, however, innovation, largely depends on solid background in the STEM subjects.

As artificial intelligence and blockchain are gaining grounds, the future of work requires basic and qualitative knowledge in STEM education, with science and mathematics taking the centre stage. Getting children exposed to STEM, at the early stages of their lives, gives them the opportunity to explore innovative concepts and develop their passion, for solving challenges, towards nation building.

Asides from building their interest in the field, STEM education helps them to define the pathways of their career from the elementary stage into adulthood, thus, having directions in their lives.

STEM education is critical to seeing Nigeria move forward. If STEM education is not encouraged, Nigeria will not make any headway in mathematics and science. Beyond this, parents have a big role to play as well, by encouraging their children to embrace STEM education, right from their various homes.

CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]