Chevron advocates global action to reduce greenhouse emissions
Okechukwu Nnodim

Chevron Nigeria Limited is advocating continuous global engagement and action to reduce greenhouse emissions in order to address climate change issues.

CNL’s Managing Director, Jeff Ewing, made the call when he chaired the recent 2019 edition of the PRSG-Richardson Health, Safety, Security and the Environment Forum in Lagos.

In his keynote address entitled, ‘Global Warming – Real Issues and Our Responsibility,’ Ewing, who was represented by the Director, Deepwater and Production Sharing Contracts, Rick Kennedy, said it was time to address issues of climate change.

The Chevron boss, according to a statement issued by his firm, emphasised the need for all stakeholders such as international agencies, government, business leaders and individuals to look at the concerns holistically and understand how human activities could contribute to climate change.

He stated that CNL, as a responsible corporate organisation, was committed to improving how reliable and affordable energy was developed and delivered to meet global demand.

Ewing was quoted as saying, “In CNL, we proactively consider climate change risks and opportunities in our business decisions.

“We work constructively with government and other stakeholders towards balanced policies to address potential climate change risks, while continuing to produce affordable, reliable and increasingly cleaner energy to support social and economic growth.”

On the CNL’s contributions to address climate change issues, Ewing noted that the company had invested in major capital projects aimed at eliminating routine flares from its operations.

He said Chevron was executing a profitable gas business through a range of domestic, regional and export supply facilities that could fulfil the requirements of its domestic gas supply obligation and support the Nigerian Gas Master Plan.

Ewing said, “With the support of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, we have reduced routine flaring in our operations by over 90 per cent in the last 10 years and continue to execute various projects towards eliminating routine flaring from our operations.”

According to him, the company’s governance, risk management and strategy processes were enough to mitigate risks and capture opportunities associated with climate change.

“Managing climate change risks is an important element of Chevron’s strategic focus towards providing cleaner energy and delivering superior performance that supports sustainable development goals,” he stated.

The highpoint of the event was the presentation of an award to the CNL for its contributions to the health, safety, security and environment practices in Nigeria and beyond, according to the statement.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]