Pros and cons of automatic bill payments
Automatic payments — regular, recurring transfers from your bank account to settle monthly bills — can have their advantages. But misusing this feature at your bank can end up costing you more, according to www.nerdwallet.com.

Bank accounts have automatic bill pay and other features, but here are the pros and cons to consider before signing up for automatic bill pay in particular.

Pros

It is convenient: Instead of visiting several different websites during the month, you can automate the bill-paying process. If you do this through your bank, your bills can be organised and viewed in one place. And some companies will email to let you know they are about to take a payment. In a sense, instead of you going to them, they come to you.

It can improve your credit score: Your payment history is the single biggest component of your credit score. With automatic bill pay, you can keep on time and avoid delinquency.

It is secure: Data breaches make headlines, but online banking is no less secure than leaving a check in an envelope in an unguarded mailbox. In fact, your accounts may be better protected through the encryption techniques that banks use online to secure customers’ information.

Cons

You risk overdraft fees: Some payments fluctuate in amount, and if you are not careful, your account may be overdrawn. Overdraft fees vary by institution. Keep tabs on your bank account and have enough in there to cover all your automatic payments.

… and late fees. Even though it is called “automatic,” a payment still takes time to process and reach a merchant or service provider. Confirm how long it takes for payments to arrive so you can set payment dates accordingly and avoid late charges.

They might make a costly mistake: What if your phone company accidentally withdraws your monthly payment twice? Or your cable provider adds to your fees? Such mistakes, while rare, can happen, and redressing them takes time and effort.

How to use automatic bill pay wisely

Sign up in the right place: Is your bill for the same amount every month, or does it vary? The answer should determine where you sign up for automatic payments.

For bills that are the same amount every month, use your bank’s auto pay to keep multiple accounts in one place.

For accounts where your balance changes each month, such as a credit card, it is better to sign up for automatic payments directly through them, so they take the full amount owed.

Set up electronic alerts: Some banks offer email or text reminders that let you know when your balance is running low or when a bill is due. Think of yourself as a manager. You are delegating the task of paying your bills, but you still want to know when something pops up that requires your attention. Alerts will help.

Don’t take an out-of-sight, out-of-mind approach when it comes to automatic payments. Even though this service is meant to simplify your life, it can have the opposite effect if you are not careful.

According to www.moneyunder30.com, everyone should set up automatic payments if they can. With so many aspects of our lives becoming digital and on the go, it only makes sense to ease the burden of remembering when to pay a bill and doing it manually.

It is hard to believe that not long ago, we were all using cheques to pay for things like rent and car loans.

When you make an automatic payment, you are telling your bank to transfer money on a set date and for a set amount, to pay a bill. Automatic payments are made with either a bank account or credit card, and in most cases, you will do this with the creditor or vendor directly, but it can also be done directly from your bank.

When done with a credit card, automatic payments act simply as a recurring charge on your account. For instance, you might do this to a particular bill . In this case, you add your credit card to your account and it charges you every month.

When you pay with a bank account, it is a little different. In nearly every case, the payment is made via Automated Clearing House—which is an electronic payment system. This essentially routes the funds electronically from your bank to the company you are paying (such as your credit card bill).

How do you set up automatic payments?

Automatic payments have become incredibly easy to set up.

Go directly to the vendor

The first method is to go directly to the company, vendor, or creditor you are trying to pay.

For example, say you have a N40,000 car payment, with the loan funded through your bank. You can log on to your bank’s website and set up an automatic payment to be taken out every month when your bill comes.

You would simply enter your bank account information and choose a date for the payment to come out each month. In many cases, you can select for the payment to be delivered on the due date or several days before.

Go through your bank

Another way to do this would be to set up an automatic payment through your bank, which a lot of people prefer.

Say your checking account is with bank A. You will simply log onto your account and go to the bill pay section. From there, you will enter the information directly from your bank bill—such as the account number and the payment address.

If your bank has the vendor’s electronic payment information, it will make the payment through ACH. This means it will be paid electronically and takes a day or so to arrive electronically. If they don’t have your vendor’s electronic payment information, a check will be automatically generated, printed, and sent to the vendor. A good example of when this would happen is a smaller utility bill.

Use your credit card

Lastly, you can always plug your credit card information in to pay a bill that accepts cards. An example here would be your cell phone bill.