Experts okay mix-funding, collaboration for power sector
‘Femi Asu

There is a need for a mix of funding solutions and increased collaboration by stakeholders to address the huge financing gap in the nation’s power sector, experts have said.

The experts stated this while discussing how the lack of access to capital had been hindering the sector, frameworks for assisting companies with funding requests, risk mitigation tools in projects, among others.

They spoke at the 2019 Power Nigeria Exhibition and Conference in Lagos on Tuesday.

The Head, Energy and Natural Resources, FBNQuest Merchant Bank, Rolake Akinkugbe-Filani, said, “The sector needs to rid itself of the legacy obligation that still exists. There is upwards of N200bn to N300bn of legacy debt that needs to be cleared.”

According to her, the second issue is about being able to gauge and ascertain the capacity of the different entities in the value chain to perform.

She noted that in March 2017, the Nigerian government alongside the World Bank introduced the Power Sector Recovery and Implementation Programme meant to address many of the technical and operational issues as a precursor to the release of a new tranche of funding solutions.

Akinkugbe-Filani said, “I think because of the scale of the energy access problem we currently have, we need a mix and plethora of funding solutions. There is a mix of solutions in terms of energy provision and last-mile distribution that can be explored. We have been trying things in the Nigerian market for many years and progress has been slow.

“I think it is time to be more innovative and explore alternative channels to ensuring the scale and the success that we desire in this space.”

The Commissioner for Infrastructure and Public Utilities, Ekiti State, Mr Bamidele Faparusi, highlighted the improvements required in the Nigerian power sector and called for collaborative efforts between the government, private sector and the end-users.

He said the Transmission Company of Nigeria should work across the board to remove all technical restrictions hindering the evacuation of electricity generated to the distribution companies.

He said, “Franchising of Discos should be encouraged because it is obvious that the territory assigned to some Discos is too large for them to manage profitably and efficiently. However, the franchising that will not lead to grid infrastructure upgrade, metering, good technical support, improved revenue collection and management of franchised areas makes chaos inevitable.

“A mechanism for collaboration should be developed between Discos, whose primary motive is profit, and government, which has social responsibility and political obligation of ensuring development. A situation where any investment by the state governments in the network is considered a gift to the Discos is unprogressive.”

According to Faparusi, there is a need for huge investment in the upgrade of distribution networks to attain smartness and profitability while regulatory agencies should ensure compliance with stipulated rules and guidelines.

“State governments should invest in embedded power generation to boost power availability for distribution within their territories,” he added.

The Exhibition Director, Power Nigeria Exhibition and Conference, Deep Karani, said the conference was focusing on finance, procurement and technology to boost investment in the sector.

“Through numerous reforms, the Nigerian energy sector has presented itself as one with considerable potential to return high yields on investment and as a regional energy investment hub,” he added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]