Nigeria, Kenya leading in grid revolution ― Expert
Udochi Ogubuike

A legal consultant on African energy access matters, Anastasia Walsh, has said Nigeria and Kenya are at the forefront of grid revolution.

Microgrids are small-scale power grids that run on a combination of solar, wind, biomass or fossil fuels to provide reliable power.

They operate either independently from the main grid or can be synched to it at the same voltage to shift the energy and respond to peaks and troughs in supply and demand.

This ensures there is no interruption in power supply, allowing communities to be more energy- independent by cutting costs and providing reliable energy access.

Walsh said in a report that Africa was forecast to be the world’s fastest-growing market for microgrids at a compound annual growth rate of 27 per cent, representing 1,145 mega watts by 2027.

She noted that Nigeria had ambitions to drastically increase its generating capacity by 2030 with 30 per cent of that planned to be from renewable sources.

She added that microgrids were expected to provide 5.3 giga watts of the increased generation capacity.

According to her, Kenya, which has doubled its energy access rates since 2014, has a goal to reach 100 per cent electrification by 2030.

Walsh said in order to achieve its goal, Kenya needed to implement a hybrid-decentralised system.

She said the decentralised system would entail a combination of traditional utility distribution and the deployment of an extensive network of microgrids.

She said, “The prevalent use of mobile money in Kenya, if harnessed correctly, will provide the best means of collecting payment of energy bills.

“To improve energy access, African nations should consider incorporating the following into their policies: First, targeting rural populations for distributed energy via microgrids; then implementing low-cost and low-barrier permitting and licensing rules with standardised quality control and operating requirements.

“They should ensure that electrification strategies are financially viable.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]