Emirates invests in recycling
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

In an effort to promote sustainable living and make positive impact on local communities, Emirates says it has given its old advertising billboards in Nigeria a new purpose, by transforming the PVC Flex material into hundreds of reusable bags.

The airline said the advertising banners collected from Lagos and Abuja were recycled and used to produce school bags and carryalls that were donated to students of two schools in Lagos.

In celebration of the start of a new academic year, the airline said two Nigerian entrepreneurs were commissioned to produce 200 school bags and 100 tote bags using the recycled billboard material.

It added that the school bags were presented to children between the ages of five and nine, and tote bags were given to teachers from Mayom Wisdom Academy and Ken Ade Primary School, both located in Makoko, Lagos.

Also included in the bags, the airline said, were stationery and activity books from its onboard products for children.

Emirates’ Regional Manager West Africa, Afzal Parambil, said recycling and sustainability could not be ignored as part of efforts to leave a better planet for future generations.

He said, “We have close ties with Nigeria and believe this is a meaningful way to engage our wider community and make positive impact on the society. This initiative also ties in with what we are doing onboard our aircraft with reducing single-use plastic on flights.

“It is gratifying to think that our advertising billboards have been reused in this creative way that can enhance the school experience for so many children. It’s been wonderful to see the delighted smiles it has brought to the students, as well as partnering local entrepreneurs and their talented teams who have worked tirelessly to make the bags, and bring this vision to life.”

Parambil said over the years, the airline had introduced multiple sustainable best practices which included its sustainable blankets produced from 100 per cent recycled bottles and a young, fuel-efficient fleet of aircraft.

According to him, the PVC Flex material is durable, strong, water resistant, tough and light-weighted, having good colour fastness.

“These qualities will ensure the bags serve the recipients for a relatively long time,” he said.

The principal of one of the participating schools, Mayom Wisdom Academy, Apostle Paul Awoletan, while appreciating the initiative, said it was perfectly timed for the start of the new school year.

The Proprietor of Ken-Ade Private Primary School, BSE Ayeseminikan, also described the initiative as “fantastic idea and a perfect gift for students going back to school.”

The bags were manufactured by Chitoz Limited Ajidun Ventures, the airline said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]