First Bank targets 500,000 agents to boost banking
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

First Bank Nigeria Plc plans to engage about 500,000 agents across the country in a bid to boost banking services nationwide.

According to the bank, the move would improve financial inclusion, as well as ensure that banking services are readily made available to people.

First Bank’s Chief Executive Officer, Adesola Adeduntan, disclosed this in Abuja at the recent 12th annual conference of the Chartered Institute of Nigerian Bankers, which had the theme, ‘The Future of the Banking Sector 360.’

He said, “We have a very ambious plan to appoint about 500,000 agents across the nook and cranny of our country and to ensure that banking facilities and services are made available to our people.

“The Acting Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Joseph Nnanna, has also highlighted that the primary purpose of the central bank for choosing minimum loan to deposit ratio of 60 per cent is to stimulate the economy.”

Adeduntan added, “This is because without credit the economy cannot grow.”

He noted that the banking sector remained a primary partner to government with respect to economic growth and development.

The FBN boss further observed that changes in the industry were unprecedented, especially with the technicalities in the sector, coupled with the rising cases of artificial intelligence, robotic operations, among others.

“If we do not interrogate these opportunities and mainstream them properly, the country and the entire economy will be left behind, he stated.

Adeduntan, who served as Chairman of the Organising Committee Meeting of the 12th annual conference of CIBN, urged participants to take full advantage of the programme by broadening their scope in the banking industry.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]