Chams promises NSE regular information
Feyisayo Popoola

The management of Chams Plc has assured the Nigerian Stock Exchange of regular provision of its corporate information for enhanced investment decision.

The newly-appointed Group Managing Director, Chams, Mr Gavin Young, while speaking during a courtesy visit to the NSE, said the company was poised to uphold the sanctity of post-listing requirements of the NSE.

He stated that the company would place premium on investment in innovative solutions and software across the commercial, consumer and government sectors of the economy to sustain its competitive edge.

He added that the company would take the issue of compliance with all the post-listing requirements seriously, saying he was looking forward to a strong relationship with the Exchange and would be happy to make input on the best ways of achieving a strong relationship.

Young said, “Our focus is to perfect and package these solutions so that we can realise value from our investments.

“As Chams is one of the foremost identity companies in Nigeria, we are also focusing on innovation in the identity space, and particularly verification as there are now over 40 million National Identity Numbers and Bank Verification Number records to which we can link to provide such verification solutions.

“Of course, we are also very involved in the national identity enrolment space via our own network and through agent and business partnerships. We have a close working relationship with the National Identity Commission and Nigerian Inter Bank Settlement System.

“Our subsidiaries are also making good progress, especially in the financial technology payment space. We will, therefore, continue to drive innovative fintech initiatives across the group.”

The Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Mr Oscar Onyema, congratulated the company on its tradition of seamless transition and urged the management to take advantage of opportunities created by the Exchange for ease of communication between it and quoted companies.

He underscored the need for the company’s board to adhere to the principles of corporate governance.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]