SON urges importers to venture into manufacturing
Samuel Awoyinfa

The Standards Organisation of Nigeria has asked importers to venture into manufacturing in order to create wealth and job opportunities for the nation’s teeming unemployed youths.

The Director-General, SON, Osita Aboloma, said this at a one-day sensitisation programme with importers and dealers of electronics in Alaba International Market, Lagos.

The DG who was represented by the Director, Inspectorate and Compliance Directorate, Obiora Manafa, reiterated that they must shun importing substandard products into the country, adding that adhering to standards was the surest way to bring back the glorious days of the market.

Aboloma also warned them against faking established brands, and advised them to build their own brands which would bring them prosperity and save the nation a lot foreign exchange.

He said, “The role manufacturing sector plays in economic development cannot be underestimated. We are advising you as importers and dealers to venture into manufacturing. That is the only way to create wealth and job opportunities for the nation’s teeming unemployed youths.

“It would also go a long way to save the country’s foreign exchange since most of what is imported into the country can be manufactured locally.

“Instead of faking established brands, build your own brands and make money from them. We cannot continue to depend on import; many big importers have gone into manufacturing. Nigerian cables are the best. Why should we import? The machinery to produce cables is not too expensive. We are open anytime to help you to select the materials and the equipment for you to start producing. This is better for you and for the economy at large.”

Aboloma said the fight against substandard products was a big one, adding that a lot of people were in detention for dealing in substandard products to serve as a deterrent to importers who had intentions to indulge in the nefarious act.

He informed the importers and dealers that the organisation would approach the court to get an order to destroy substandard cables it had in its warehouse, restating its commitment to bringing down the influx of substandard goods into the country.

He said, “We are just waiting for the court order to destroy the seized substandard cables; while we have obtained court orders for some of them, very soon we are going to destroy those cables, so that people will see the extent we have gone in this fight.

“A lot of smugglers bring in goods without SONCAP certificate. We will fish out these people by going to their warehouses and even outside the market. It is a continuous fight and we are really making progress.”

He commended the importers for agreeing to join hands with SON to fish out the bad eggs giving Alaba International Market a bad name, saying that the workshop was aimed at bringing back the lost glory of the biggest market in West Africa.

The President General, Electrical Dealers Association of Nigeria, Chief Stephen Agabige, commended SON’s enforcement activities in the market, saying that before now, it was very difficult to sanitise the electronics market but for the intervention of SON..

“When they came here last week, we took them round in our bid to show our support for SON and to say that we are not in support of fake products in our market. We showed them the people who indulge in fake products. We also have a committee established to ensure sanity in our market. We have given them more power to carry out their duties and in two or three weeks’ time, every product in our market will be original,” he said.

He urged dealers to do the right thing, alluding that the sensitisation was an eye -opener for most importers to make them competitive.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]