AfCFTA will transform Nigeria’s economy, says Osinbajo
Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja

Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo on Thursday said that the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement would transform the Nigerian economy and create jobs for millions of people.

He said this at the opening session of the 2019 annual directors’ conference of the Institute of Directors Nigeria.

The conference was organised to discuss the readiness of Nigeria, policy changes and necessary steps required for the country to maximise the benefits from the AfCFTA.

Based on projections by the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, the agreement is expected to boost intra-African trade by between $50bn and $70bn in monetary terms, with a 40 per cent to 50 per cent increase over the first 20 years of its implementation

Osinbajo said the AfCFTA, to which Nigeria is signatory, was a laudable development building on existing regional initiatives and presenting opportunities for increased collaboration and economic integration among African economies.

He said while these were the early days of the trade agreement, there was no doubt that Nigeria would enjoy significant benefits from the agreement.

He said, “AfCFTA will also promote a vibrant and competitive industrial sector that is central to job creation and income growth.

“This will improve the human capital base of the economy. Enlarged regional markets will also provide a platform for cooperation on infrastructure development, technology transfer and innovation.

“Therefore, the AfCFTA can transform Nigeria from a target economy to the Africa gateway economy, boosting job creation through increased intra-African trade, and spurring growth through enhanced economic welfare; with an estimated eight per cent increase in Nigeria’s total exports.”

On Nigeria’s preparedness for the agreement, he said despite the fact that the country only recently signed the AfCFTA, there were many initiatives that had been put in place by the government.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]