NIPC links export rejection to poor packaging
Ife Ogunfuwa

Poor quality of packaging and labelling has been identified as a major reason exported products from Nigeria are rejected overseas.

The Director, Business Development at the Nigerian Investment Promotion Council, Mr Wiliam Eze, made this known at the 2019 Packaging, Plastics, Food Processing, Labelling and Print exhibition organised by Propak West Africa in Lagos.

While delivering a keynote address, Eze identified packaging and branding as important tools for successful business.

He said, “A recent report says that 30 per cent of our (Nigeria) exports to the United States are rejected as a result of poor packaging and labelling, not quality of the products.

He said, “Packaging has been at the forefront of product development as well as marketing efforts. Packaging and branding have been critical marketing tools both in the domestic and export market. Therefore, this has underlined the reason why manufacturers, producers and Medium and Small Micro Enterprises attend this event.”

Eze noted that the problem of packaging in Nigeria had become complex because innovation kept changing due to the market trend of consumer demand and behaviour.

“In other words, this exhibition is very key to our Small and Medium Enterprises, producers and entrepreneurs. The topic of the exhibition, ‘Environmental sustainability’ is a critical theme in our country and globally. The supply value chain must be able to meet the demand for the products and the packaging system.”

In his keynote address, the Chairman, Sona Group of Industries, Mr Arjan Mirchandani, urged manufacturers to adopt practices that would make the environment sustainable.

He also called on the government to develop policies that would be a guide for sustainable practices for stakeholders in the industry.

The Regional Director, Afrocet Montegomery, parent company to Propak, George Pearson, noted that the national and state elections which always affected the business environment had made the overall growth in Nigeria flat in the past 12 months.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]