NSE lifts trading suspension on two insurance firms
Feyisayo Popoola

The Nigerian Stock Exchange says it has lifted the trading suspension placed on the shares of Guinea Insurance Plc and Niger Insurance Plc.

In a notice on Wednesday, the NSE referred to its market bulletin dated July 2, 2019, with reference number: NSE/RD/LRD/MB34/19/07/02, wherein it notified dealing members of the suspension of 11 listed companies for non-compliance with Rule 3.1, rules for filing of accounts and treatment of default filing, and the rulebook of the Exchange.

It said the rule provided that “if an issuer fails to file the relevant accounts by the expiration of the cure period, the Exchange will send to the issuer a ‘second filing deficiency notification’ within two business days.”

It added that after the end of the cure period, it would suspend trading in the issuer’s securities and notify the Securities and Exchange Commission and the market within 24 hours of the suspension.

The notice read in part, “Guinea Insurance Plc and Niger Insurance Plc, which were two of the 11 companies that were suspended, have now filed their audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 with the Exchange.

“In view of the companies’ submission of their audited financial statements and in pursuant to Rule 3.3 of the default filing rules, which provides that the suspension of trading in the issuer’s securities shall be lifted upon submission of the relevant accounts provided, the Exchange is satisfied that the accounts comply with all applicable rules of the Exchange.”

It added the Exchange would, thereafter, announce through the medium by which the public and SEC was initially notified of the suspension.

“Dealing members are hereby notified that the suspension placed on the trading of the shares of Guinea Insurance and Niger Insurance was lifted today, Wednesday, September 25, 2019,” it stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]