University Press shareholders to get N64.7m dividend
Feyisayo Popoola

University Press Plc has proposed a dividend of 15k per 50k ordinary share owned by shareholders for the 2018 financial year, which translates to a cash outlay of N64.7m.

The Chairman, University Press, Dr Lalekan Are, while speaking at the company’s Annual General Meeting in Lagos on Thursday, said the dividend proposed was in view of the company’s performance in the year under review.

He said the company had recorded a 47 per cent decline in its profit after tax, which dropped to N109m from N207.4m in 2017, despite the 29 per cent increase in revenue recorded.

The company’s shareholders’ fund stood at N2.61bn as of March 31, 2019 while its total capital expenditure was N180m.

Are stated that the capital expenditure amount was invested in field operation vehicles, office and computer equipment for the enhancement of the company’s operations.

He revealed that the decline in PAT was due to higher cost of doing business and specific expenses meant to have long-term positive impact on the company’s performance.

According to him, the impact has been absorbed in the current year under consideration and the effects are not expected to continue into the future.

Are stated that the publishing sector was facing quite a number of challenges.

He described the prevalent economy in the country as unconducive for business generally, as well as the publishing sector.

Are said, “Nigeria has been rated by the World Culture Score Index as one of the countries with the lowest reading culture. The poor reading culture of the Nigerian citizenry has suffered from widespread poverty, corruption, ineptitude and a dearth of dedicated quiet reading places like libraries.

“The Nigerian Copyright Commission says the country has been losing $3bn (N988tn) annually to the activities of pirates. Piracy lies at the heart of the challenge facing the publishing sector.

“The dawn of information age and the advancement of technology in the reproduction of information and intellectual goods have created a favourable tool for piracy.”

Are said there was now a focus on creating an enabling business environment for the small and medium enterprises to thrive by making Nigeria a progressively easier place to do business, delivering several reforms, as evidenced by the fact that Nigeria moved up 24 places in the World Bank’s Doing Business report over the past three years.

He said the board of directors was confident that by driving agriculture and agro-based industries, technology and innovation, solid minerals, and the vibrant creative sector, Nigeria would harness the energies of its entrepreneurial youths to deliver the promise of a better future.

According to him, there will be a continued increase in the company’s growth, profit and revenue.

Are also announced his retirement as chairman during the AGM, having served for over 26 years.

He said his resignation took effect from July 31, 2019.

According to him, a non-executive director, Mr Obafunso Ogunkeye, was nominated and voted as the chairman of the board, effective August 1, 2019.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]