Adapt to technology disruption, ICAEW tells accountants
Nike Popoola

Accountants should be able to adapt to changes in the future as technology is taking over the accounting profession.

The Technical Manager in the Tech Faculty, Institute of Chartered Accountants, England and Wales, David Lyford-Smith, said this during the 49th annual accountants conference organised by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria.

“Considering how technology has taken over the accounting profession, one major skill required for accountants to prepare for the future is adaptability,” he said.

A statement said the conference, which had the theme, ‘Building Nigeria for sustainable growth and development’, held in Abuja.

Lyford-Smith, who presented a paper at the plenary session titled, ‘Disruptive innovations: Challenges and opportunities in the accounting profession’, explained that professionals needed to adapt to changing standards in the industry, especially as it concerned the emerging technology.

He noted that the accounting profession was already reacting by creating examinations and learning materials to produce knowledgeable newly-qualified accountants.

He said, “Nigeria has a young and growing accountancy profession and this means there is a huge opportunity for students and current accountants to be trained today for the needs of the near future.

“Accountants still need to be able to prioritise useful tests above interesting ones and be able to tell the difference.”

While speaking on the transformational trends in accounting referred to as the ‘ABCDs of accounting technology’, Lyford-Smith explained that this had been the focus of the ICAEW’s tech work over the last couple of years.

According to him, the ABCDs of accounting technology were artificial intelligence, blockchain, cybersecurity and data.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]