Carton manufacturer to employ 800 Nigerians
Samuel Awoyinfa

A carton manufacturing company, Jaro Industries, has inaugurated its factory in OPIC’s new Makun Industrial City, Ogun State, with a promise to employ over 800 Nigerians in its immediate locality and environs.

The Chief Executive Officer/Managing Director, Mr Kavine Vaswani, who said that the company was an arm of the Deekay Group, a corrugated fibre-board carton manufacturing company, disclosed the employment plan to our correspondent after the inauguration.

Shortly after the inauguration of the company by the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, Vaswani said the company was in Nigeria to contribute to its development, adding that the new factory would source 70 per cent of its raw materials locally.

He said, “The initial volume of human resource that we are going to be taking on board will be approximately 250 of full time employees, 350 of contractually workers, as to when our efficiency builds up, but obviously it will take a little bit of time understandably so, that volume will hopefully increase to a total combination of may be 800.

“The completion of this project is to further demonstrate the group’s commitment and belief in the Nigerian economy. I must say, there is a lot of potential for economic growth in Ogun State and that is why we have decided to take this bold initiative by citing the factory in this state, with the help of special partners like the Bank of Industry, Access Bank and Standard Chartered Bank.”

He said the factory is sitting on 28 acres of land in the OPIC’s New Makun Industrial City, along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway.

He added that the factory was equipped with state-of-the-art facilities that meet international standards which include a high-tech corrugation machine, a five-colour fully automatic printer and folder gluer, six-tonne boiler, glue kitchen, complete plant conveyor system and complete waste management system, among others.

Talking about the total value of the investment, Vaswani said it cost approximately $12m.

He also said the company had built residential quarters for employees with various amenities.

He said the Deekay Goup started its operation in 1972 with trading business, and after gaining competency in trading of various products, it ventured into backward integration and started the manufacturing of exercise books and a printing and packaging business.

Governor Abiodun, who was represented by the acting Managing Director, Ogun State Property and Investment Corporation, Mrs Ibiyemi Adesoye, at the inauguration of the factory, expressed his delight at the speedy completion of the project.

He said, “We are indeed very pleased to have you plant your factory in Ogun State. It shows we are doing certain things right, which has attracted you to our state. As a government, we would ensure that we give you all the necessary support you require for a smooth operation in the state.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]