25 RTEAN state chairmen endorse Muhammed’s appointment
Rasheed Bisiriyu

Twenty-five state chairmen of the Road Transport Employers’ Association of Nigeria have confirmed the appointment of Alhaji Musa Muhammed as the national president of the transport group.

This is coming one week after the leadership crisis rocking the association led to the sacking of its embattled President, Osakpamwan Eriyo, and the Secretary-General, Mr Ibrahim Yusuf.

Muhammed was immediately appointed as the president by the National Executive Council of RTEAN and named the Deputy Secretary, Mr Henry Ejiofor, to replace the expelled secretary.

But Eriyo dismissed his expulsion and Muhammed’s appointment, insisting that the association’s NEC lacked the powers to sack him or any member of his exco.

However, the state chairmen at a NEC meeting held in Lagos on Wednesday endorsed Muhammed as the national president of the association.

Muhammed, while addressing newsmen after the meeting, urged other members nationwide to join him in repositioning the association, saying those who appointed him as president were in the majority.

Even as he promised to protect the sanctity of the association’s constitution, he declared that he could be removed anytime should he operate contrary to the law.

Muhammed said, “Today, I have been confirmed as the national president of the association. In the absence of the national president, the deputy national president would be sworn in as the national president. I thank all of you.

“I am using this opportunity to invite others. We are in the majority and by virtue of the constitution of RTEAN, once the majority sit and take a decision, it is not illegal. My advice to our members nationwide is to maintain peace and ensure unity. I am advising them not to take law into their hands. They should follow due process.”

The Imo State Chairman of the association, Chidoziri Augustine, said the change of leadership in RTEAN is long overdue, saying the appointment of Muhammed would bring development to the association.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]