2,000 workers lose jobs to hair braid faking
Etim Ekpimah

No fewer than 2,000 workers of Solpia Nigeria Limited, makers of X-pression hair braids, have lost their jobs because of the losses the company suffered due to product faking.

The Company Secretary, Azubuike Onyekwelu, disclosed this to our correspondent, stating that 520 workers were retrenched in August.

According to him, more workers will still be relieved of their jobs if urgent steps are not taken by the government to arrest the activities of fakers, who saturate the market with products in imitation of those of the company.

Onyekwelu said some unscrupulous businessmen rebranded used braids and sold them to the public in packages similar to those of the company.

“As of last month, cumulatively, we have retrenched 2,000 workers. Out of this figure, 520 workers were disengaged last month alone by the company. More workers are still on the verge of going if the matter of faking is not addressed urgently.

“The issue of our product faking is a headache to us. We have not been sleeping as most times we fight the monstrosity from all angles.

“We believe we are winning the challenge. We have gone to the Federal High Court, which gave us judgement against all these fakers. We have executed that judgement on one company. Right now, we have set up machinery all over the country to track them down. They cannot hide; we shall get them. We are working with relevant government agencies on this.”

He added that the company had suffered a setback in its market share owing to the activities of fakers.

The Marketing Manager, Mrs Grace Ejikeme, said it was only recently that the company noticed that some Nigerians had begun importing fake braids into the country and distributing them to the markets.

She said, “While we work in conjunction with relevant government agencies in Nigeria and the originating country, China to get the sources of these fake products in the country and bring the perpetrators to book, it is intrinsic that we warn the general public about the existence of these fake products and the dangers they portend to the users.”

Ejikeme added that the fake products became known two years ago when the company experienced some scarcity of its products in the market as a result of the its inability to easily take delivery of its raw materials due to the congestion of the Apapa ports and bad roads leading to the ports.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]