MAN group campaigns against underage taking alcohol
Samuel Awoyinfa

The Beer sectoral group of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria in collaboration with the Collingwood Learning Incorporated and Thespian Theatre has launched a ‘smashed’ project targeted at discouraging youths from taking alcohol.

Endorsed by the Federal Ministry of Health and supported by local health and education authorities in the country, the programme is aimed at breaking the culture of underage taking alcohol. It also aimed at reducing alcohol-related harm among Nigerian youths.

A global theatre-in-education programme initiated by Collingwood Learning Incorporated in the United Kingdom, the smashed project has engaged over half a million young persons in 20 countries of the world, since its inception in 2004.

According to a statement, it involves the delivery of key learning on the dangers of underage drinking and alcohol-related harm to secondary school pupils, using drama presentations.

“It engages participants in a motivational learning environment and equipping them with the facts, skills and confidence to make responsible choices and develop responsible attitudes in health-related matters,” it added.

In his remarks during the launch, the Chairman of the Beer Sectoral Group, Mr Jordi Borut Bel, stated, “We are delighted to support the adoption of the smashed underage drinking programme as it strengthens activities that are currently being undertaken by individual member companies to ensure that our products are not sold to or consumed by persons under the age of 18 years.”

Borut Bel noted that the project, which commenced in May in Edo State, would move to Anambra and Enugu states, covering over 60 public and private schools and reaching over 14,000 pupils.

He added that the expectation of the BSG was that the programme would be scaled up to involve at least six additional states in Nigeria by 2020 with plans for wider coverage in the coming years.

The CEO of Thespian Theatre, Ms Ayo Jaiyesinmi, said the organisation would continue to partner the BSG and local health and education authorities in ensuring that the programme addressed issues related to underage drinking among Nigerian youths.

The Deputy Director, Food and Drug Services Department of the Ministry of Health, Celine Onunkwo, said the objective of the project was in line with the global strategy to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol.

The BSG is an umbrella body for leading brewing companies in Nigeria that are members of MAN, with members including Nigerian Breweries Plc, Guinness Nigeria Plc and International Breweries Plc.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]