Anchor introduces travel, agric covers
Nike Popoola

Anchor Insurance Company Limited has introduced two insurance policies in the industry, which have been approved by the National Insurance Commission.

The Managing Director the company, Mr Ebose Augustine, disclosed the two products as Anchor Travel Insurance and Anchor Agriculture Insurance, during the launch in Lagos.

Ebose said, “We were particularly glad when we received the approvals as it provides the opportunity for us to extend our well known passionate service difference and finesse to drive the products for the maximum comfort of our potential customers.

“For about 30 years that Anchor Insurance Company has been in operations, we are remarkable for excellent delivery of services to our teeming customers.”

He explained that the Anchor Travel Insurance which it was running under an agreement with Mapfre Asistencia, based in Spain, came with different features and benefits.

“It comes with a family plan which ensures that children between three months and 18 years travelling with their parents only pay half of the premium rate being charged,” he said.

He added that it came with premium discount package for group subscriptions.

Part of the benefit, he added was provision of medical emergency assistance which included medical expenses and hospitalisation abroad, emergency medical evacuation, repatriation of family member travelling with the insured, emergency return home following death of close relative, repatriation of mortal remains.

The managing director said some of the covers under the Anchor Agriculture Insurance cover included, multi-peril crop insurance which covered against the risk of fire, lightening, pest/diseases, drought, flood, windstorm and aircraft.

He said it covered fishery insurance that took care of risks of death of the fish as a result of diseases and collapse of the pond.

Ebose added that it covered, “Poultry insurance which is essentially against the death of birds as a result of accident, diseases, fire, flood and windstorm.

“Livestock Insurance which insures against the death of animals due to accident, pest/diseases, fire.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]