Custodian mentors youths on investment
Nike Popoola

The Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Custodian Investment Plc, Mr Wole Oshin, has urged youths to learn relevant business skills from role models.

He spoke during the second edition of its conference designed to connect young professionals with mentors who could teach them practical business lessons.

The conference was attended by more than 150 professionals from diverse academic background in Lagos.

“Last year we decided to influence the thought direction of young people in the country because we realised that a lot of them do not have role models they look up to for direction even though they have many ideas,” he said.

While narrating the story of how he conceived the idea of Custodian Investment as an undergraduate at the University of Lagos in the days of Structural Adjustment Programme, he urged the young professionals to believe in the country, promising to monitor their progress.

He said Nigeria was blessed with abundant natural resources waiting to be tapped, adding that the youths must be focused and determined if they were to harness the opportunities available to them in the country.

The Co-founder and former Group Executive Director of Sahara Group, Tonye Cole, said it would take just one government policy to negatively impact on the fortune of a business and take it from a solvency level to bankruptcy overnight.

He advised the young professionals to always make their presentation as short as possible anytime they were given an opportunity to talk about their businesses.

He urged them to cultivate a good reputation because it was an essential ingredient of success.

While warning the young people to expect that some employees would steal from them, he advised them to make sure they made more money than what could be stolen.

Cole urged them not to make empty promises because reliability was key to the sustainable growth of a business.

He told the young professionals not to take success for granted and to understand that it was possible to be in a very profitable business and still fail as a result of intense competition, taxation or bureaucracy, among others.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]