Important banking alerts you should activate
In the past, people used to get bank statements once a month and had to keep meticulous records to avoid bouncing a cheque. There was no bank by phone or bank via the internet. It was all done on good old-fashioned paper.

However, times have changed — dramatically — hardly anyone uses cheques (except maybe to pay a water bill or mortgage) and you can instantly see everything that is going on with your account on your banking app or your computer.

And not only can you see what is going on instantly, but you can also actually have your bank proactively send you bank alerts through your app.

Choosing which bank alerts to get can be challenging sometimes. There are lots of options.

Here are eight bank alerts from thebalance.com that you may want to consider to keep your account secure and in good standing. For most people, it is a good idea to pick and choose the top three that will be most beneficial to you.

Unusual activity alert

This sends you a text message if your bank detects activity that may be fraud. This often happens if spending is unusual for your account or purchases are being made from outside your normal travel area.

It is common to get these alerts when you are on vacation, and often if they are set up, your bank will send you a text to make sure a transaction was really from you.

Mobile deposit bank alert

This is an alert that sends you a message when you or somebody on your account uses their smartphone to snap a picture and submit a cheque. It acts as a receipt for mobile cheque deposits and can be a great way to keep solid records of what is going on in your bank account.

Cleared cheque alert

This alert allows you to track exactly when cheques clear in your account. This way if you have a larger cheque that does not clear right away you will instantly know the status of your deposits and will not be as likely to spend money that is not there yet.

Low balance bank alert

This is one of the more popular bank alerts you can set up. It tells you when the balance in your bank account goes below a certain amount. Most banks let you set it up with any threshold you would like — whether that be $1000 or $20. This can help you to keep from incurring expensive overdraft fees or overspending, and to know when to hold off on purchases that are not exactly necessary.

Big purchase alert

This alert is especially helpful if you have a joint account. It allows you to be notified when there is a big amount coming up the bank account. If you do not recognise it, then you can find out quickly if somebody else does and avoid problems with an overdraft in your account or potential fraud.

Password or profile change alert

This bank alert lets you know if somebody has tried to change your password, or your profile. Sometimes, of course, you have to do this yourself. But if it is not you changing the password, then it can signal account theft or hacking and it is important to take action right away. This is one of the most important alerts when it comes to the best security practices for mobile banking.

Large ATM withdrawal alerts

This is another alert that helps to notify you of unusual behaviour in your bank account. If it is normal for you only withdraw N4000 or N5000 at a time from the ATM, then it is helpful to get an alert when somebody withdraws N500,000. Then you can check to make sure it is really you or an authorised account holder.

All debit card purchases

This bank alert is not for everyone, but it can tell you exactly what is going on in your bank account at any given time. And it can alert you to transactions that might be occurring at odd times of the day. But it is also pretty intrusive and can be annoying.

Bank alerts can be very helpful in maintaining a healthy bank account. But they also can be intrusive and somewhat annoying. So, it is a good idea to pick the most helpful ones and leave the other ones off your list.