Govt’s website lists Adeosun, Fayemi as cabinet members
Ife Ogunfuwa

The Federal Government’s website, www.nigeria.gov.ng, has listed the former Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun, as a current cabinet member, one year after her resignation.

Adeosun, who had been replaced by Zainab Ahmed as Minister of Finance, resigned on September 18, 2018 following calls for investigation into allegations that she forged her National Youth Service Corps certificate.

Also, checks showed that the government listed the Governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi, as Minister of Solid Minerals, 16 months after his exit from the Federal Executive Council.

Fayemi took charge at the Ministry of Solid Minerals on November 11, 2015 but resigned in May 2018 to pursue his governorship ambition in Ekiti State.

Deputy Secretary-General to the United Nations, Amina Mohammed, who served the Nigerian government as the Minister for Environment from November 2015 to December 2016, is still being recognised as a member of FEC on the government website.

Mohammed was officially sworn in as Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations in New York on February 28, 2017.

Findings showed that the Nigerian government website is showing the names, portfolio, and bio of ministers in the last tenure, one month after Buhari formed a new cabinet.

Investigations by our correspondent indicated over 20 of the new ministers’ portfolio and bio had not been uploaded on the website of the government to reflect a change in the executive council of the government.

President Buhari on August 21 assigned portfolios to the 43 newly inaugurated ministers, a month after they were appointed.

All the new ministers had since commenced work in their respective ministries and participated in the inaugural FEC meeting chaired by Buhari in Abuja on September 11 this year.

Checks by our correspondent on Wednesday showed that the government had not replaced the names, portfolio and bio of former Minister of Budget and National Planning, Udo Udoma; former Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; and former Minister of Defence, Brig. Gen Mansur Ali (retd) with the new ministers.

In the Ministry of Communications, the website stated that Adebayo Shittu, remained at the helm of affairs while it listed the former Minister of State for Education, Anthony Onwuka; former Minister of Environment, Amina Mohammed, and former Minister of State for Environment, Ibrahim Jibrin, as part of the government’s cabinet.

The government website indicated that Audu Ogbeh and Heneiken Lokpobiri remained the country’s Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, respectively.

Other names that had not been changed included the former Minister of Women Affairs, Aisha Alhassan; former Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Okechukwu Enelema; and former Minister of Health, Isaac Adewole.

READ ALSO: Ex-Benue N-SIP chief arraigned over alleged N198m diversion

In addition, the new Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, was named as the Minister of State for Health on the website.

The former Minister of Interior, Abdulrahman Dambazau; former Minister of State for Petroleum, Ibe Kachikwu’s portfolio and bio had also not been removed.

The government website also indicated that Babatunde Fashola was still the Minister of Power, Works and Housing even though the ministry had been split into two – Ministry of Power and Ministry of Works and Housing.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]