Financial reporting: ANAN, FRC boost regulatory governance
Nike Popoola

The President, Association of National Accountants of Nigeria, Prof. Muhammad Mainoma, says the association has started engaging the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria and other relevant agencies to strengthen regulatory governance in financial reporting process in the country.

He disclosed this in his welcome address at the 24th Annual National Conference of ANAN which opened on Tuesday, a copy of which was obtained by our correspondent.

He said, “We are engaging relevant regulators with a view to strengthening regulatory governance in the financial reporting process. Our close collaboration with the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria and other PAOs is yielding results.

“We have engaged the legislature in their bid to improve the national budget process,’’

He added, “ANAN has improved her advocacy in public policy. The Research Committee would soon release her two technical reports on Nigerian public financial management and professional accountancy skills gap. Capacity is being built on contemporary issues in accounting.”

The ANAN president noted that in the past 24 years, members of the association had consistently gathered to discuss the affairs of the nation.

He noted that the last of such efforts was on the ‘Economic recovery and growth: Issues and options.’

The ANAN president said that the logical follow-up to that was to sustain that economic recovery and growth; hence, the theme of this year’s conference, ‘Nation building and sustainable growth: Challenges and prospects.’

He said that the easiest way to build the nation and sustain it was through learning, entrepreneurship, goal convergence, accountability, collaboration and youth development.

Mainoma said, “There seems to be agreement that development that cannot be sustained is not development at all. We must not only be bothered about the present but the future should be of concern to us. Here comes the issue of legacy.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]