Multiple taxation, levies hurting businesses in Ogun – MAN
Samuel Awoyinfa

The Ogun State chapter of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria has asked the Ogun State government to discontinue water abstraction/borehole charges, and some other levies imposed on its members, as they are inimical to business growth.

The state chairman, MAN, Mr Seleem Adegunwa, made this demand on Tuesday in Abeokuta during the 34th Annual General Meeting of the body.

The theme of the AGM was, ‘The Manufacturing Sector: An integral part of making Ogun State the Industrial Hub of Nigeria.’

He said individual manufacturing company in the state were billed water abstraction/borehole charges ranging between N2m and N450m by the state Ministry of Environment.

Adegunwa who noted that the immediate past administration in the state was unyielding in discontinuing the charges despite MAN’s various engagements with it, said MAN and Nigeria Employers Consultative Association had jointly instituted a legal action against the state government.

He said the action was instituted at the Ogun State High Court. He also said that the unified trucks drivers’ ticket which was introduced in the state recently was an association ticket being disguised as new haulage ticket and being imposed on MAN members by agents of goverment

He said business environment in 2018 was wrought with a lot of economic, political and regulatory upheaval in Ogun State.

He said, “Many business owners, CEOs and managing director have had to draw every available resource to keep their company running. In some cases, this has been at a great cost, either to the company or to it’s staff who were laid off. In fact, some manufacturing concerns folded up during the course of the year.”

Adegunwa commended governor Dapo Abiodun-led administration on his engagements with the organised private sector, and called for the harmonisation of taxes and levies members pay to state agencies and the local governments.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]