One insurer meets NAICOM’s recapitalisation requirements
Nike Popoola

One insurance company has met the recapitalisation requirement as directed by the National Insurance Commission.

The spokesperson of the commission, ‘Rasaaq ‘Salami, said this in a statement on ‘Update on recapitalisation of insurers and reinsurers,’ on Wednesday.

He stated, “One company’s submission was noted to have met the necessary requirements; the review of submissions from two companies is ongoing while; three companies are yet to submit their recapitalisation plans.”

Salami added, “Further to the circular issued by NAICOM on May 20, 2019 increasing the paid up share capital of insurers and reinsurers in Nigeria and, the subsequent directives to companies to submit their recapitalisation plans by August 20, 2019, the commission hereby notifies all insurance stakeholders that it received plans of 47 insurers and two reinsurers.”

In keeping with the recapitalisation roadmap, the commission said it had concluded review of the submissions and had communicated individual companies on their positions.

It stated, “26 companies have been granted ‘no objection’ to proceed with their plans; the plans of 17 companies were corrected and have been advised to resubmit their new plans using paid-up capital and not shareholders fund;

“Four companies do not have the requisite 2018 financial statements and are thus, advised to review their plans of using IPO; One company has litigation issues and has been advised to resolve them as soon as possible to enable its progress.”

NAICOM said it had resolved to adhere to the recapitalisation roadmap towards achieving its desired objectives in the best interest of all stakeholders.

Life insurance companies’ capital was raised from N2bn to N8bn, general companies’ got a raise from N3bn to N10bn, while composite insurance companies’ capital was raised from N5bn to N18bn under the recapitalisation requirement.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]