UBA, LCCI to support SMEs through trade
Nike Popoola

United Bank for Africa Plc and the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry have assured the Small and Medium Enterprises of support to help their businesses grow.

The Head Group, Consumer Retail Business, Mr Jude Anele, gave this assurance on Tuesday at a press conference on the 2019 Lagos International Trade Fair scheduled to hold in November.

He said the bank had put in place various services to promote businesses, and that the trade fair was expected to provide an avenue for networking, boosting trade and investment bounding in Nigeria and Africa.

While ensuring that the SMEs would maximise their presence at the fair, Anele explained that UBA would provide uninterrupted banking services during the 10-day event, and also provide advisory services to the small and medium entrepreneurs, fundamental to achieving their business goals.

He said, “Worthy of mention is that merchants and entrepreneurs from other African countries and abroad would be able to conduct their transactions seamlessly without currency exchange hassles, using the extensive reach of UBA as a pan- African bank with presence in key commercial capitals in the world.”

While speaking on the ease of payment during the event, especially with African companies, Anele said that UBA had successfully put in place solutions that would ensure ease of payment within Africa.

“UBA will be deploying state-of-art Point of Terminals configured towards ensuring merchants receive immediate values in currencies of their choice,” Anele assured.

The Bank further said that in line with its support to the growth of the SMEs, it had reached an agreement with the organisers of the fair to give 20 per cent discount to its small and medium business customers who registered to showcase their products and services at the fair.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]