Delisting: A.G. Leventis offers N1.4bn to shareholders
Feyisayo Popoola

Shareholders of A.G. Leventis (Nigeria) Plc have been offered N1.4bn for the sale of their entire shareholding in the company.

A.G. Leventis said in a notice to investors on Tuesday that Boval S.A, acting on behalf of itself, Leventis Holding S.A, and Leventis Overseas Limited, planned to acquire the shares held by other shareholders.

Though the company did not give reasons, it had posted a loss of N282.3m in the first half of the year.

A.G Leventis recorded a loss of N3.5bn in 2017 and saw a turnaround in 2018 with a profit of N876m.

According to the notice, Boval S.A had approached the board of directors of the company with an intention to acquire the shares held by other shareholders at an offer price of 53 kobo per share, which translates to N1.4bn.

It said after the purchase, the company would be delisted from the Nigerian Stock Exchange.

Boval said the offer price of 53 kobo represented a premium of 85 per cent to the 60-day volume weighted average share price and 104 per cent to the company’s closing share price on September23, 2019.

According to the notice, the proposed transaction will be implemented under a scheme of arrangement in line with section 539 of the Companies and Allied Matters Act, Cap C.20 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004.

It added that the proposed transaction was, however, subject to the review and clearance of the NSE and the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the approval of the shareholders of the company.

The notice read in part, “The terms and conditions of the proposed transaction will be provided in the scheme document, which will be dispatched to all shareholders following the receipt of the ‘no-objection’ of the regulators and an order from the Federal High Court to convene a court-ordered meeting.”

The company said further developments would be communicated to shareholders in due course. It advised shareholders to exercise caution in dealing in the company’s shares until further information was provided.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]