Honeywell seeks expansion, new product lines
Feyisayo Popoola

The Managing Director, Honeywell Flour Mills Plc, Mr Lanre Jaiyeola, has assured shareholders that the company will strengthen its revenue by expanding its portfolio and marketing new products tailored towards consumers’ taste.

Jaiyeola, while speaking ahead of the company’s Annual General Meeting, said the new products would take into consideration the customers’ purchasing power and nutritional needs.

He said following deep research work on Nigeria’s consumer behaviour and needs, the company was in a position to produce safe, healthy and affordable food products for all Nigerians.

The Chairman, Board of Directors, Dr Oba Otudeko, said the company would continue to sustain growth in revenues through innovation and capacity expansion.

He said while focusing on innovation and introduction of new and unique food products, the company would maintain its commitment to increasing local content.

Otudeko said, “Honeywell remains focused on growth and is committed to entrenching itself in the markets where it currently operates while capturing new markets.

“My conviction that ours is a company of the future is born out of the knowledge that we are making significant investments in organic growth and expansion, which is cardinal to meeting the needs of our growing customer base and securing future earnings.”

He added that the company had increased its capability and measurement of external market trends by regularly collating customer and consumer insights to better develop category and brand strategies.

According to him, the company’s strategy focuses on investing in markets and segments, which it identifies as attractive because of the confidence of the directors in securing profitable growth and building further competitive advantage.

Otudeko stressed that the company would, however, continue to innovate and improve its product offerings in order to exceed consumers’ expectations and increase market share.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]