Abuja Disco’s commissioner gets global appointment
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

The Chief Financial Officer, Abuja Electricity Distribution Company, Ije Okeke, has been appointed commissioner by the Global Commission for the eradication of energy poverty under the management of the United States-based Rockefeller Foundation.

Okeke’s appointment was to support the drive by the global body to end the lack of access to electricity for almost a billion people across the world, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa.

The foundation described the lack of power by millions of people across the world as one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century.

A statement from the AEDC said the commission is co-chaired by a Professor of Physics and Engineering Systems MIT, and former US Secretary of Energy, Ernest Moniz; President of the Rockefeller Foundation and former USAID Administrator, Rajiv Shah; and Africa Development Bank President, Akinwunmi Adesina.

It said the announcement of Okeke’s appointment followed the first full convening of the commissioners who participated in the inauguration of the commission, which took place at the Bellagio Centre in Bellagio, Italy earlier this month.

“The commission will operate under the joint chairmanship of the Rockefeller Foundation President, Rajiv Shah, former US Secretary of Energy, Ernest Moniz, and the Africa Development Bank President, Akinwunmi Adesina,” it stated.

On September 12, 2019, The Rockefeller Foundation announced the inauguration of the Global Commission to End Energy Poverty in order to address one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century.

“Okeke whose area of expertise is in infrastructure finance, private equity and distribution management is expected to work with other renowned global experts in their efforts to bring electricity to the over 850 million people who live without access to energy today,” AEDC stated.

It added, “According to the World Bank, 650 million will still lack energy in 2030, falling far short of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. About 90 per cent of the 650 million people live in sub-Saharan Africa.”

The statement further quoted Shah as saying, “We cannot end poverty without ending energy poverty. Despite recent progress, the world is not on track to solve this problem by 2030.

“Now it is time to unleash the full potential of distributed energy by integrating the strengths of grid and off-grid systems in order to enable large scale public-private partnerships.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]