FG denies Guinness, Dangote, 13 others tax relief
Ifeanyi Onuba, Abuja

The Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission has rejected the application of 15 companies seeking pioneer status under the Industrial Development Income Tax Act.

The pioneer status is an incentive from the Federal Government which exempts companies from income tax. It is also known as tax holiday and generally regarded as industrial investment device.

This means the companies with pioneer status do not have to pay tax for a certain period of time, allowing the companies to get established. This tax exemption can be full or partial.

The products or companies suitable for pioneer status are industries or products that do not already exist in the country.

An analysis of the second quarter Pioneer Status Incentive report obtained from the NIPC showed that while 15 companies had their applications rejected, approval in principle was given to 10 firms.

The report stated that two firms had their applications extended while 181 other applications were still pending.

It put the number of firms currently benefiting from the tax incentive scheme at 32 while 104 companies had abandoned their applications with the NIPC.

The 15 companies whose applications were rejected are Umugini Asset Company, Aristocrats Industries Ltd, Guinness Nigeria Limited, StrongPack Limited, Grit System Ltd, Scott Industries Limited and Flexipack Ltd.

Others are Ultimus Constructions Ltd, NG Clearing Ltd, Dangote Ibese Lines 3 and 4, Dangote Cement Obajana Line 4, Promasidor Nigeria Ltd, Daraju Industries Ltd, West African Packaging Ltd and Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc.

READ ALSO: There is corruption in N-SIP programme –Magu

Providing reasons for the rejection, the commission in the report stated that the requests from two out of the 15 firms were time barred, while the activities of 10 other firms were not covered under the pioneer status-incentive list.

For the other three companies, it explained that their applications were rejected because their expansion projects were not eligible under the Industrial Development Income Tax Relief Act.

The NIPC in the report also stated that 10 companies got approval in principle for tax incentives.

The companies are Amarava Agro Processors Ltd, Solis Agro Ltd, Indigo Feeds Nigeria Ltd, Polar Petrochemicals Ltd, Royal Pacific Group Ltd, Wacot Rice Ltd, Olam Hatcheries Ltd, Crown Flour Mills Ltd, Gowus Nigeria Ltd and Harvestfield Industries Ltd.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]