Former NUPENG president gets Lagos Scout top job
Anna Okon

Deputy Majority Leader of the Federal House of Representatives, and former National President of Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers, Peter Akpatason has been decorated as member, Lagos State Scout Council Management Committee and simultaneously promoted to the position of Assistant State Scout Commissioner for Administration and Finance in the Lagos State Scout Council.

Apkatason, a lawmaker representing Akoko-Edo Federal Constituency, was said to have said while appreciating the honour that one of the ways to address the spate of social vices in the country was to engage youths in scouting. He acknowledged that the scout movement was notable for preaching strong values.

According to a statement, Apkatason blamed the moral decadence and prevalence of crimes such as Internet fraud and others among the youth, on deviation from societal values and ethos.

The lawmaker also promised to support the bill being sponsored by the Scout Movement in the National Assembly.

The National President, NUPENG, Williams Akporeha, was quoted as saying that Akpatason was a man who left enduring and enviable legacies in NUPENG.

He said, “For some of us who followed him closely when he was NUPENG president, we would always love to be identified with him anywhere he is being honoured.

“This honour is not just for him alone but for all of us he has mentored. I therefore appeal to stakeholders across board to revive Scout movement at primary and secondary school levels.

“It is an organisation with global recognition and capacity to develop the youths into good citizens, chivalrous people who are also skillful in many outdoor activities.’’

The Lagos State Scout Commissioner, Olohuntoyin Adebesin, was quoted as saying that the core objective of the association was to instill moral values in youths and make them better leaders for societal good.

Adebesin pointed out that scouting had produced renowned leaders in the world, including an erstwhile president of the United States, Barack Obama, and former President Olusegun Obasanjo, among others.

He said, “Scouting changes the view of the youths and makes them better leaders. It is because we don’t create time to engage the youths that we are facing major vices here and there. If we engage them and redirect their energy towards something that will benefit them, we will have a better society.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]