Safety: Aviation stakeholders seek inter-agency collaboration
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Aviation stakeholders have said there is a need for agencies in the industry to work together to boost safety.

The stakeholders noted that the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority and the Accident Investigation Bureau needed to work together to improve safety in the industry.

At the Quarterly Breakfast Meeting of the Aviation Round Table in Lagos, the NCAA was accused of not carrying out safety recommendations issued by the AIB, while the AIB was also accused of issuing recommendations which seemed impossible for implementation.

Aviation experts said both agencies must work together to build a strong communication network and collaboration to ensure safety was not compromised.

A former Director General of the NCAA, Harold Demuren, said the AIB lacked the authority to enforce its recommendations but that effective communication with the NCAA remained important.

Demuren said the NCAA must evaluate the safety recommendations issued by the AIB using a risk-based approach with consideration for cost and time of implementation.

He said regulators in other climes would always implement safety recommendations as long as they were the right recommendations and could save lives.

He explained that the United States’ aviation regulators and airlines had implemented about 82 per cent of safety recommendations issued by the National Transportation Safety Board, an independent US government investigative agency responsible for civil transportation accident investigation.

According to him, six per cent are about to be implemented and the remaining 12 per cent may not be carried out.

“It is not the amount of recommendations we make that matters but the quality of recommendations. A risk-based approach to implementing safety recommendations requires good leadership, competence, capability to do it, robust insurance systems and more importantly, effective communication between the NCAA and the AIB,” he said.

A former Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, Nnamdi Udoh, said implementing accident investigation recommendations required good leadership.

According to him, aviation security is the greatest challenge that needs to be addressed in the sector.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]