PRCAN set to sanction errant PR practitioners
Anna Okon

The Public Relations Consultants’ Association of Nigeria has said it would soon embark on strict implementation of the laws guiding the practice of public relations in Nigeria.

The newly elected President, PRCAN, Mr Israel Opayemi, stated this while speaking during the election of new executives into the association at its 2019 Annual General Meeting in Lagos.

A statement signed by the Publicity Secretary, PRCAN, Bolaji Abimbola, quoted him as saying, “Let it be known that public relations is a profession regulated by an extant law in the form of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations Decree 16 of 1990; now an Act of the Parliament.

“We will work hand in hand with the NIPR to get that law amended, strengthen the sanctions for infringement and work with the Office of the Inspector General of Police to enforce that law.”

Opayemi vowed that it would no longer be business as usual for unqualified public relations practitioners whom he said were tarnishing the reputation of the profession through unwholesome practices.

He decried a situation where the public relations profession in Nigeria had become a ‘Banana Republic’ of sorts where anything goes.

He stated further that unlike other professions like medicine, law, accounting and even advertising, public relations in Nigeria was one profession in which the barriers to entry seemed to be lower as just anybody could wake up and call themselves ‘PR Consultant.’

He further assured that PRCAN was committed to taking on the task of fostering an environment that enabled business growth for PRCAN member-firms through his vision and mission statement anchored on seven pillars namely; clearer identity, stronger legislation, stricter enforcement, increased revenue, better value, fair trade as well as professional dignity.

He added “Let me publicly reiterate a promise I once made which has now become the collective resolve of our new leadership. It is a resolve that we will be standing on the shoulders of giants and be leaning on the chest of the icons of our profession.

“We will be drinking from the table of Mike Okereke, Mr Nn’emeka Maduegbuna, Mr Yomi Badejo-Okusanya, our own Amazon Mrs Nkechi Ali-Balogun, other past presidents Dr Phil Osagie, Mr Chido Nwakanma and the outgoing president Mr John Ehiguese as well as many of you who have made great contributions to the growth and development of this noble profession.”

Opayemi also pledged PRCAN’s readiness to offer the professional assistance of its member-firms to the Federal Government in crafting a response strategy and a campaign plan to help the positive story about Nigeria as well as shape the current low perception.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: theedit[email protected]