Govt mediates in oil workers, Arco dispute
Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja

Oil workers under the aegis of the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers and Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria at ARCO Group Plc have dragged the company and an American oil firm, General Electric, before the Ministry of Labour and Employment over failure to pay 60 per cent of their terminal benefits.

Chairman of PENGASSAN at ARCO, Amadike Clinton, said ARCO paid its field workers only 40 per cent of their entitlements when their appointments were terminated.

He said ARCO claimed that it could not complete the payment because General Electric deducted 10 per cent withholding tax from the workers’ earnings and paid the sum, which run into millions of dollars, to the Federal Inland Revenue Service, instead of five per cent between 2005 and 2015.

The American company at the time had a contract with ARCO, a Nigerian company, for the supply of indigenous personnel, he stated.

On Tuesday, representatives of ARCO, PENGASSAN, NUPENG, FIRS and that of the labour ministry met at a closed-door meeting in Abuja where a truce was brokered. While Clinton led the PENGASSAN delegation to the meeting, Kingsley Okara led NUPENG members.

Our correspondent learnt that a director of trade union at the ministry presided over the meeting. A ministry source, who preferred anonymity, said all the parties were given one month to resolve the issue and begin payment to the aggrieved workers.

The source said, “The ministry is not a debt collection agency. It came into the matter because ARCO accepted its financial obligation for the settlement of salaries and union dues. The company said the only way it could complete the payment is if the GE made a refund to it. We gave them three weeks to begin process of refund.”

Clinton said after the meeting that he was satisfied with the partial settlement arrived at.

He said, “This means that there is a partial settlement. The FIRS has not denied collecting 10 per cent withholding tax from the GE but the GE has to initiate the process of refund by writing a letter to the FIRS stating the amount involved and paying to ARCO when the fund is released.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]