Thomas Cook: Be creative, NANTA tells members
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Following the collapse of United Kingdom’s 178-year old travel and tourism firm, Thomas Cook, the National Association of Nigerians Travel Agencies has asked members to be innovative in their businesses.

The President of NANTA, Bankole Bernard, said innovative idea would help any business to stay afloat.

He said, “In business you have to constantly reinvent the wheel. You can’t do the same thing the same way and expect a different result.

“Thomas Cook didn’t reinvent the wheel which affected their operations. They were carrying huge costs and when they were supposed to do some things via online or through third party, they recruited instead.”

Bernard, however, stated that it was not certain if any Nigerian agency or member of NANTA had any affiliation with the British firm.

According to the Managing Director, Business Travel Management Limited, Lola Adefope, Thomas Cook’s collapse may not affect Nigerian travel agencies as there are other sources of packaged holiday suppliers that people can do business with.

She, however, stated that travel agencies in Nigeria should learn from Thomas Cook’s business model.

“There are a lot of lessons to learn, for instance; don’t do what others are doing, do something different,” she said.

Thomas Cook, the world’s oldest travel company, collapsed on Monday over $2.1bn debt pile, which analysts said was built up by a series of ill-fated deals.

The firm failed to secure emergency funding, leaving thousands of vacationers stranded abroad while over 21, 000 employees lost their jobs.

According to the British government, the return of the firm’s over 150,000 British customers on vacation across the world would be the largest repatriation in its peacetime history.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]