FG unveils emergency centre to fight kidnapping, insurgency
Ife Ogunfuwa

The Federal Government has unveiled a new Emergency Communication Centre in Katsina and emergency call number 112 in order to ensure the security of lives and properties and address insurgency, kidnapping and other vices.

At the inauguration of the centre in Katsina State on Monday, the Minister of Communications, Dr Isa Pantami, emphasised the commitment of the Federal Government to leverage Information and Communication Technology to fight insecurity and improve the safety of lives and properties in the country.

The ECC projects, which are being implemented by the Nigerian Communications Commission with counterpart support of respective state governments, was conceived to enhance the security of lives and property of Nigerians.

The NCC said 17 states and the FCT had functional ECCs where calls to the 112 emergency number would terminate and be routed appropriately, and they would soon be unveiled.

The states are Kastina, Ogun, Kano, Plateau, Anambra, Enugu, Kaduna, Benue, Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Oyo, Edo, Ondo, Ekiti, Kwara, Adamawa and Imo states.

Pantami, who commended the Governor of Katsina, Rt. Aminu Masari, for his efforts in fighting insurgency in the state, said the Federal Government under was focused on the three agenda of fighting insecurity, corruption, and improving the economy.

The minister said the centre would also be used to curb corruption through the integration of whistle-blowing communication process into the facilities.

In his remarks at the event, Masari commended the ministry for the initiative, stressing that the project would help to complement the efforts of the state government in fighting insurgency and all forms of criminal activities.

He added that the centre would subsequently help to improve the creation of a peaceful and enabling environment for economic and social activities.

Addressing the audience at the ceremony, the Chairman, NCC Board of Commissioners, Olabiyi Durojaiye, reiterated that the establishment of the ECC was in line with the government’s vision to enhance the security of lives and property of Nigerians, particularly in the fight against insurgency, as well as mitigating road accidents, kidnapping, fire outbreaks or any other life-threatening occurrences in the country.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]