CBN policy: NECA calls for caution
Anna Okon

Following the recent directives by the Central Bank of Nigeria, for the immediate implementation of a cashless policy, the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association, has advised that the entire process be tampered with caution.

The Director-General, NECA, Mr Timothy Olawale, gave the advice in a statement made available to our correspondent.

He said that although the initiative was laudable in moving the economy at par with other emerging economies, the current business environment and available infrastructure could not support such deployment.

According to him, several sub-sectors of the economy will be negatively impacted by the policy, as they are still predominantly cash-dominated. He cited examples in the fast moving consumer goods and retailers, downstream oil and gas, transportation and other sectors.

In his analysis of the policy, he explained that corporate account holders were still battling with Stamp Duty charge of N50 on every eligible transaction above N1, 000, commission on turnover of 0.1 per cent, the proposed 7.2 per cent Value Added Tax and others.

He said with the additional five per cent processing fee for withdrawals and three per cent processing fee for lodgments of any amount above N3m, it was needless to say that the policy was an overkill, exploitative and would negatively impact the citizens.

Olawale noted that the country’s 2019 Doing Business Report rating of 146th out of 190 economies and other uncoordinated and unplanned policies would further bring hardship on the people and lead to further contraction of the economy.

He called for an exemption for the sub-sectors of the economy in the category listed above if CBN would still go ahead with its policy.

He canvassed that the CBN should ensure that all Deposit Money Banks improve their facilities and reduce incidences of fraud.

Olawale reiterated the need for wide consultation and stakeholders’ engagement on an ongoing basis before policy statements were made or concluded.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]