Improving pension benefits through data updates
An up-to-date data of workers with the Pension Funds Administrators under the Contributory Pension Scheme will remove any form of hindrance to contributors’ access to pension benefits, NIKE POPOOLA reports

While many retirees have been able to access their pension benefits without difficulties, some have had delays because they have inaccurate information with their Pension Funds Administrators.

Under the Contributory Pension Scheme, a contributor could get pension benefits under different circumstances. For instance, if a worker loses their job under a paid employment and does not get another after four months, the person can access 25 per cent of the balance in the Retirement Savings Account.

If the person is already 50 years when retiring or at the time of losing the job, the person can access their lump sum and begin to receive monthly pensions.

But the pension operators need to verify that the beneficiary is the right person the money should be paid to so as to avoid fraud through impersonation.

The pension operators say it is cogent for the contributors to update their information with their PFAs, and notify the PFAs of any changes that may occur in their details since the time they joined the scheme.

Some of the irregularities the operators observed include contributors with irregular names; change of address and multiple PFAs.

They also said that it was important for every contributor to avail the PFA of their National Identification Number, a mandatory requirement to access pension benefits.

The Federal Government mandated all workers under the CPS to produce their NIN as part of their pension requirements.

This made the National Pension Commission to direct all PFAs to update records of their clients.

Consequently, all the RSA holders, both active and retired, were advised to approach their PFAs to provide their NINs and Bank Verification Numbers, as well as other mandatory biodata information.

The President, Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria, Mrs Aderonke Adedeji, urged workers to avail themselves of the data recapturing.

According to her, it will help to prevent situations where contributors retired with multiple pension numbers, which would require reconciling before they could have their pensions.

Adedeji, who is also the managing director of Leadway Pensure, said it would help to prevent cybercrime, which many organisations were guarding against in the financial system.

“Contributors should go to their PFAs and do their data recapturing,” she said.

She also said the PFAs had started approaching many employers to get this done.

Trust Fund, one of the PFAs, in a presentation, said the data recapturing was borne out of the fact that PFAs needed to have adequate and correct records of the clients in their database.

According to the PFA, the exercise will enable the identification and elimination of multiple registration from the RSA registration database.

It observed that some contributors did not know which PFA to align with since they had PIN with more than one PFA, and in some cases, had their contributions spread across these PFAs, which often affected their benefits at retirement.

Trust Fund said that the exercise would ensure that all PFAs implemented the minimum standards and requirements set by the commission for the registration of contributors in the pension industry.

The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, IEI-Anchor Pension Managers Limited, Mr Glory Etaduovie, said the ongoing data recapturing of pension contributors and retirees by the PFAs nationwide was meant to protect the pension scheme against cybercrime and other fraudulent activities.

He also stressed the need for national ICT database, as information, like communication, was the lifeblood of a nation.

He stated that the massive pension fund accumulation and its fast pace of growth had drawn more attention to it than might be necessary.

Etaduovie added that since pension fund was now a veritable source of funding and development in the country, other individuals with evil intents were exploring how to penetrate the fund structure; hence, cybersecurity must then be enhanced.

The pension project of data update and harmonisation with the national database, he said, was the way to go as it was in tandem with modern ICT trends to synchronise databases with national groups.

He said the BVN registration by banks had improved the tracking of individual’s financial history and activities as well as enhancing transparency and reducing financial manipulations, fraud and corruption.

According to him, the ongoing exercise would get pension operators prepared for more international best practices, standardisation and acceptability globally.

Etaduovie stated, “The world is now very dynamic and fast-paced in financial technologies. It is easy to be left behind too quickly. Playing catch up can be quite expensive in time and value. So, when many have questioned reasons for the high drive of the pension regulator and the industry at large, they only need to review activities surrounding it globally. The ICT has made operating in isolation near impossible. Globalisation has taken over.”

While observing that some clients were afraid to give more personal details as requested by the PFAs, he noted that the information was, however, inevitable as long as it was released to the right recipients upon verifying the true identities of those requesting it.

He said, “Often, the BVN and NIN numbers have been requested alongside 10 fingerprints. Until recently, resistance was very tight. This is likely due to the newness of the scheme; the lack of enough awareness and sensitisation. More so, this is money matter and their future savings for retirement.”

While noting that it was necessary to initiate these financial safety measures because of cybercrime perpetrators, impersonation and forgery, and in-house collusion, he maintained that even though it was uncommon in the pension industry, in the wake of international money laundering and terrorism funding, it had become a requirement for financial institutions to know their clients well.

He said they needed to have a minimum level of their customers’ personal information that satisfied not only the KYC (know your clients), customer’s familiarity index aimed at crime control and curbing money laundering.

Etaduovie said, “A correct database is thus inevitable. This has to do with collection of relevant individual clear and concise personal verifiable personal details for efficient availability and ready use, if and when necessary.

“It would be a sad and embarrassing thing for a retiree and the pension industry to find out that through a stolen identity, there is no more money left in the RSA account.”

The national data capture, he said, would lead to an efficient database for various uses, such as crime control, immigration challenges, employment and unemployment statistics, social welfare programmes planning and development, as well as demographic detailing.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]