Oil industry critical to climate change solution — OPEC
’Femi Asu

The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries has said the oil industry has to be part of the solution to climate change as it possesses critical resources and expertise that can help unlock the world’s carbon-free future.

OPEC, in its newly released 2019 World Oil Outlook, said it remained fully engaged and supportive of the Paris agreement on climate change.

According to the report, energy poverty remains a major global challenge, with almost one billion people still without access to electricity and three billion lacking access to clean fuels for cooking.

“The world needs to look for cleaner and more efficient technological solutions everywhere, across all available energies,” the group said.

With total primary energy demand set to expand by a robust 25 per cent between 2018 and 2040, OPEC said all forms of energies would be required in the future to help to meet expanding demand in a sustainable way, balancing the needs of people in relation to their social welfare, the economy and the environment.

It said, “Natural gas witnesses the largest demand growth in absolute terms, and the renewable the largest growth in percentage terms. Oil is expected to remain the fuel with the largest share in the energy mix throughout the forecast period to 2040.

“Oil demand is forecast to reach 110.6 million barrels per day by 2040. The non-OECD drives oil demand with growth of 21.4mbpd by 2040 (compared to 2018), whereas the OECD region is expected to contract by 9.6mbpd.

According to the report, long-term demand growth will come mainly from the petrochemicals (4.1mbpd), road transportation (2.9mbpd) and aviation (2.4mbpd) sectors.

It said, “The total vehicle fleet – including passenger and commercial vehicles – is estimated to grow by more than one billion by 2040 to around 2.4 billion.

“The long-term share of electric vehicles in the total fleet is projected to reach a level of around 13 per cent in 2040, supported by falling battery costs and policy support, but the majority of the growth continues to be for conventional vehicles.”

It said non-OPEC liquids supply was projected to grow by 9.9mbpd between 2018 and 2024, the majority coming from US tight oil.

OPEC said, “Demand for OPEC liquids is projected to increase to around 44.4mb/d in 2040, up from 36.6mb/d in 2018. In the period to 2040, the required global oil sector investment is estimated at $10.6tn.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]