PTAD verifies 11,363 pensioners in North-Central
Nike Popoola

the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate says it has verified 11,363 parastatal pensioners under the Defined Benefit Scheme in the North Central region of the country.

It said the exercise produced a total of 11,363 verified parastatal pensioners during the two-week exercise.

The breakdown of the numbers verified showed Ilorin Centre had the highest number with 3,453 pensioners, followed by Lokoja Centre with 3,269 pensioners. Jos Centre had 2,895 and Minna Centre had 1,746 verified pensioners.

In line with PTAD’s tradition, the pensioners were treated with respect and empathy, it said in a statement.

According to the directorate, the exercise was conducted in a conducive environment where pensioners were provided with lunch and medical facility to take care of any emergencies.

The Senate Committee Chairman on Establishment and Public Service, Sen. Ibrahim Shekarau, was at Lokoja centre to monitor the exercise.

He said he was satisfied with the verification processes and promised the support of the NASS to the directorate.

The Executive Secretary, PTAD, Dr Chioma Ejikeme, who was on ground at various verification centres while the exercise lasted, appreciated members of the National Assembly for their support for the senior citizens and PTAD towards improving the welfare of pensioners.

She also thanked the members of staff for their commitment and the pensioners for their cooperation.

She assured that the upcoming verification exercise in Abuja would include all the feedbacks received during the North Central verification exercise.

The next phase of the verification exercise was scheduled to hold in Abuja from November 18, 2019.

It stated, “Pensioners who missed the exercise in their zone should take the opportunity of Abuja verification exercise to be verified. Pensioners do not need to be anxious about being verified as the directorate has the capacity to verify all pensioners who present themselves for the verification within the period slated for the exercise.”

PTAD said the exercise was strictly for parastatal pensioners and did not include Customs, Immigration, Prisons, Civil Service, Police pensioner and others that had already been verified by PTAD.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]