A-Class, GLC October sales lift Mercedes
Rasheed Bisiriyu

More people are showing interest in the compact cars and the sport utility vehicle models of the Mercedes line-up, going by the high sales recorded in the two segments last month.

Mercedes-Benz said it sold 199,293 vehicles in October and surpassed its performance in the 10th month of last year by over 9,000 units. A total of 1,924,536 vehicles were reportedly sold globally by the automaker between January and October this year.

A statement by the automaker said the growth in October sales was largely driven by the new A-Class saloon and the new GLC.

Indeed, it expressed optimism that with the high sales in the GLC, it could become the 2019 bestselling SUV in the Mercedes-Benz portfolio.

The overall increase described as the bestselling October for the brand is about 4.9 per cent.

It said the sale of compact cars remained at record levels both in October and in the first 10 months of the year, with 546,100 units of the A- and B-Class, CLA Coupé, CLA Shooting Brake and GLA were delivered in the first 10 months of this year, rising by 9.8 per cent.

It added that the deliveries in this segment increased last month by 3.3 per cent.

“Within this category, worldwide sales were driven in particular by the A-Class saloon. The sales of the new CLA Coupé also had a positive effect, among other things with two-digit growth in Europe.

“Worldwide deliveries of the C-Class Saloon and Estate increased in October by 6.5 per cent to 31,800 units, and deliveries of 335,100 units in the first 10 months of the year were also higher than in the prior-year period.

It stated that in the first 10 months of the year, Mercedes-Benz maintained its market leadership in the premium segment in markets such as Germany, UK, France, Spain, Belgium, Switzerland, Poland, Portugal, Denmark, Turkey, South Korea, Australia, Thailand, Canada, Republic of South Africa and other markets.

Britta Seeger, a member of the Board of Management of Mercedes-Benz AG responsible for Marketing and Sales, said, “We are satisfied with the unit sales achieved by Mercedes-Benz at the beginning of the fourth quarter, also in the context of the high prior-year basis.

“In view of the challenging environment for the entire industry, we can be proud of the impulses provided by our product offensive. And we are delighted with the positive feedback from customers on our new models.”

It also stated that a new record was achieved in the SUV segment for October with more than 69,500 units of GLA, GLC, GLC Coupé, GLS and G-Class being in line with a sales increase of 2.2 per cent last month.

“In particular, the new GLC and GLC Coupé, the GLE and the G-Class achieved double-digit growth. The new GLC and the GLC Coupé also reached a new record value for deliveries in October,” it stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]