UNDP, LSETF train, empower 1,300 youths
Feyisayo Popoola

The Lagos State Employment Trust Fund, in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme, has trained a total of 1,300 youths in vocational skills.

The graduation held in Lagos on Tuesday, where 1,707 certified and skilled workmen and women were offered employment with the over 350 employers registered on the Lagos Labour Management Information System.

The Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said the newly-graduated trainees brought the total number of young people trained under the LSETF Employability Support Project to 5,056 since inception.

Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folashade Adefisayo, said with well over 60 per cent of Nigeria’s population made up of young people under the age of 35 years, the future of the country was very promising.

He said, “We must be honest to admit that the reality today is that we do not have enough young people with employable skills that will make them globally competitive to take advantage of employment opportunities.

“Even blue-collar employment opportunities are quickly snapped up by the more skilled personnel from our neighbouring countries. We have to fix it and to fix this challenge.

The Chairman, Board of Trustees, LSETF, Mrs Ifueko Omoigui-Okauru, said they aimed to train as many willing youths as possible.

She said the LSETF Employability Support Project sought to increase the pool of skilled manpower to alleviate the shortage of skilled workmen and women in Lagos State.

The Country Manager, UNDP, Mr Mohammed Yahya, urged the graduating students to work diligently to make Lagos state proud and wished them well in their endeavours.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]