Fowode becomes IOSH vice-president
Anna Okon

The Managing Director of Kevron Consulting Limited, Kayode Fowode has been appointed as Vice-President of the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health.

A statement indicated that Fowode was first elected on September 3 at the institution’s head office in the United Kingdom and the position was later ratified during the institution’s Annual General Meeting held at Birmingham, UK.

According to the statement, the VP is a member of the Presidential Team, adding that the role is ambassadorial, representing IOSH globally and includes supporting and promoting IOSH strategic objectives and campaigns.

It also involves representing and speaking on behalf of IOSH to the media, supporting IOSH global engagement strategy in facilitating fraternal visits with IOSH global partners and representing the body at events, conferences, meetings, branch and group events.

The statement indicated that IOSH has over 47,000 members in over 130 countries and works with businesses around the world to understand the benefits of good safety and health practices.

The statement further read, “IOSH launched a new ambitious five-year strategy, Work 2022 – shaping the future of safety and health to help us to enhance, collaborate and influence the profession and wider world of work.”

It added that before his appointment, Fowode was a member of the IOSH Council and the National Coordinator of IOSH Nigeria Network Group.

It indicated that he was presented with the ‘IOSH President’s Distinguished Service Award’ at the IOSH Annual Dinner in 2018.

According to the institution, the award is given to those who have made significant contributions to IOSH and its networks, or to practitioners who have made a significant contribution to improving the profession.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]