Nigeria targeting 30% energy efficiency by 2030 –Buhari
John Ameh, Abuja

President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday addressed the United Nations Climate Action Summit in New York, giving details of Nigeria’s plans to contain the effects of climate change in the country.

He stated that the plans, crafted in the country’s Nationally Determined Contribution in line with the Paris Agreement would be executed in the energy, water and agricultural sectors.

Buhari said, “In the water sector, Nigeria will issue a Green Bond for irrigation and construct multi-purpose dams for power, irrigation and water supply.

“We will strengthen solid and liquid waste management systems to attract more private sector investors.

“We will take concrete steps to harness climate innovative ideas by including youths in decision making processes as part of our overall climate governance architecture.

“We will mobilise Nigerian youths towards planting 25 million trees to enhance Nigeria’s carbon sink.”

For the energy sector, the President explained that attention was shifting to renewable energy sources such that by 2030, the country would have achieved 30 per cent efficiency.

He said, “In the energy sector, Nigeria is presently diversifying its energy sources from dependence on gas-powered system to hydro, solar, wind, biomass and nuclear sources.

“Specifically, Nigeria is progressively working to realise 30 per cent energy efficiency and renewable energy mix by 2030. This is envisaged to lead to 179 million tonnes of carbon dioxide reduction per annum by 2030.”

Buhari gave further explanations on plans to develop shelter belts in 11 states in the country.

On the Lake Chad Basin, the Nigerian President said his administration would continue to support efforts to recharge it.

He said, “Finally, permit me to add that the forty million citizens in the Lake Chad area expect this summit to take into consideration their concerns.

“They anticipate that the outcomes of this meeting would include solutions to address the climate change impact in the Lake Chad area.”

Meanwhile, Buhari has told the President of the 74th United Nations General Assembly, Prof Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, that he bore a heavy burden, being the UNGA President.

However, he assured him that Nigeria would fully support his Presidency.

Muhammad-Bande is a Nigerian and the second to become the UNGA president after Maj-Gen. Joseph Garba, who last held the post in 1989.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]