Insecurity: Insurance brokers join search for solutions
Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna

Piqued by the state of insecurity across the country, the Nigerian Council of Insurance Brokers said on Sunday in Kaduna that it was working on a pragmatic approach towards helping government in its search for enduring solutions.

This was the outcome of the 2nd Northern Insurance Brokers Summit, which was hosted by Northern Area Committee of the council, attended by members from the 19 northern states and the FCT, Abuja.

This year’s summit had as its theme, “security of lives and properties in a nation, responsibility of all”.

According to a statement by the Northern Chapter Chairman of the council, Alhaji M.A. Abdulrauf, members agreed that insecurity problems in the country should not be left at the doorstep of government alone. They called on all well meaning Nigerians, groups as well as experts to join in the fight against insecurity.

“The country is currently faced with a lot of security challenges and, therefore, government needs contributions to find solutions from professionals in relevant fields to come up with very robust ideas on how to tackle the menace.

“It is our belief that at the end of the summit, professionals and highly competent speakers from the relevant fields would have enlightened us on how to tackle this problem that is seriously affecting the fabrics of our country and its economy. Without security, there will be no investments.

“On our part, we have taken it upon ourselves to come up with pragmatic approach towards helping the government in its search for solutions towards tackling the challenges.

“This biennial event has come to stay as it has become one of the means through which the Northern Area Committee of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers contributes modestly to both national issues as well as operational challenges in view of the need to address the various challenges facing us as a country.”

Besides, Abdulrauf intimated members that some of the issues that were contained in the 18-point communique issued at the end of the maiden edition of the summit in 2017 had been fully implemented while others were at various stages of implementation.

The chairman used the occasion to express his appreciation to the President and Chairman of the governing board of the council, Mr Shola Tinubu, for his sterling leadership qualities and for giving a new direction to the activities of the council both nationally and internationally.

The summit was the second. The maiden edition was held in Kano in 2017.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]