GreenHubAfrica, LASG engage students in campaign against pollution
Samuel Awoyinfa

GreenHubAfrica says it is poised to tackle all matters that can pollute the environment through its environmental sustainability programme.

It was in a bid to realise this that it took its environmental sustainability programme to the Yaba College of Technology, Lagos in conjunction with the Lagos State Ministry of the Environment, among others.

It said this was a seminar in which the students of the institution and experts rubbed minds on how to sustain the environment.

It described the programme as “a disruptive campaign to change the mindset of the younger generation by educating them on the dangers of not participating in environmental sustainability efforts.”

The statement from the organisation added that Nigeria, as the largest economy in Africa, had yet to lead the continent in addressing climate change challenges such as ocean pollution, recycling, tree planting and renewable energy.

It stated, “Our shorelines, forests, drainage channels, streets and the air we breathe are generally unsafe due to contamination from our action or inactions.

“The seminar educated the students on the possibilities of a healthier environment with quiz and videos. We also engaged them with music and a dancing challenge.”

The Rector, Femi Omokungbe, was at the event held inside the institution’s 2,000-seater multipurpose hall.

Over 1000 students signed on as the GreenHubAfrica ambassadors.

The founder of the GreenHubAfrica, Mr Henry Bassey, who is also Chief Executive Officer of DigiBrands Limited, highlighted the need for everyone to develop a relationship with their environment.

He said the youths were the future of the continent, adding, “Though we already have a clear focus of our target audience made up of 3Ps, being People, Private Sector and Public Sector, who are doing great work in the environmental space, it is important for this revolution to start with the younger generation.”

He encouraged the students to send and share engaging social media content of people doing awesome things in the green space.

Over 150 students won different freebies for their performances at the event.

The Dean of Yaba College of Technology, MrsOlajumokeShobande, also in attendance, commended GreenHubAfrica’s engaging presentation, which kept the students thrilled from start to finish for over two hours.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]