High tax regime slowing business growth — Expert
Feyisayo Popoola

The Head, Tax and Corporate Advisory Services, PwC Nigeria, Taiwo Oyedele, has said the high company income tax rate in the country is a disincentive for business growth.

Oyedele, while speaking during the Finance Correspondents Association of Nigeria annual workshop, themed ‘Unlocking opportunities in Nigeria’s non-oil sector’, said Nigeria had one of the highest company income tax rates globally.

According to him, Nigeria is among the top 10 in the world with highest income tax rate.

Oyedele said, “We pay Company Income Tax at 30 per cent, education tax at two per cent and 10 per cent withholding tax on whatever is left.

“If you add it together, it is more that 40 per cent already. If you now make a mistake of having a group and you say it is a holding company, that is another 30 per cent. Who does that?”

Oyedele revealed that there existed a commencement rule, which was supposed to punish start-ups during commencement by making them pay tax twice.

He noted that to address the challenge, operators in the private sector should focus on demanding removal of some of the disincentives that affected business operations.

He said, “What I keep saying to government is that I can insist that I have a small pot and I must get 60 per cent of the pot by all means or I allow the pot to be big enough and then get 10 per cent of it.

“Government must remove tax disincentives. One thing I am asking the business community is stop asking the government for incentives because they will think they are doing you a favour. Ask them to remove the disincentives that are not allowing us to do business.”

Oyedele called on the authorities to change their thinking about taxation, saying the current approach had only made compliance difficult.

According to him, the thinking of citizens around taxation is completely upside down.

He said, “As a government, I should help you make money so that you can pay me tax; It is just common sense. Nigeria has a tax system that does not allow businesses to thrive, whether you are small or big.

“The reason Nigeria cannot make money from tax, and it is not a curse, is that it continues to beat up the people at the bottom of the ladder. But they cannot give you what they do not have.”

Oyedele said if the government could focus on the top one per cent rich and big companies, they would get the desired tax results.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]