Developer begins one million homes initiative
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Lifepage Group says it plans to build one million houses for different classes of Nigerians between now and 2041.

The Managing Director, Lifepage Group, Mr Oladipupo Clement, said it was part of efforts to bridge the country’s housing deficit.

At the inauguration of the group’s ‘Million Homes’ initiative, he said the project and real estate crowd funding platform would allow subscribers to make gains in cash and/or assets while the capital sum would still be intact.

“It is an initiative with a goal to build one million homes by 2041. To this end, we are offering subscribers the opportunity to partake in secured real estate developments, and make gains and benefits never heard of before,” he said.

He said the group came up with the initiative knowing that Nigeria’s housing problem was more than one million homes, but would require a lot of collaboration and funding, adding that the focus would be on the lower cadre of home seekers.

“Research shows that housing demand in Lagos alone is around six million and great majority of those who need houses fall under the lower cadre where we will focus on,” he said.

He stated that several projects across the country would come under the ‘Million Homes’ initiative including the Olive Property Development Programme, a project-focused and guaranteed investment property scheme.

Clement said, “Olive PDP is in two categories. The first allows an investor to recoup their principal investment in two years and get a plot of land worth more than the invested sum within 60 days of close of the offer period. In a nutshell, this platform helps investors guarantee their capital while earning returns in asset.

“The second allows an investor to recoup their principal investment and get 20 per cent guaranteed cash returns in one year. This category gives investors opportunity to earn returns in cash.”

He said the initiative would also include the Abuja Property Development Programme, a project-focused and guaranteed investment property scheme.

According to him, the programme allows an investor to recoup their principal investment; get 30 per cent guaranteed cash returns in three years and a plot of land worth more than the invested sum within 90 days of close of the offer period.

“In a nutshell, this platform helps investors guarantee their capital while earning returns in both cash and asset,” he said.

The third project under the ‘Million Homes’, he said, was the Lekki Property Development Programme, Lakowe.

Clement said the project-focused and guaranteed investment property scheme would allow an investor recoup their principal investment in two years and get a plot of land worth more than the invested sum within 60 days of close of the offer period.

“This platform helps investors guarantee their capital while earning returns in asset,” he said.

The Executive Director, Finance and Administration of the group, Mr Peter Adesanya, said the initiative would allow investors to co-own homes.

The Executive Director, Marketing and Operations, LifePage, Mr Opeoluwa Oni, said the group would be deploying innovative technology to enable it to achieve the ‘Million Homes’ target.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]