Surveyors canvass review of professional ethics
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Commonwealth Association of Surveying and Land Economy has called for a review and re-evaluation of the profession of surveying.

CASLE is a federation of independent professional societies representing surveying and land economy in commonwealth countries.

The President of the group, Mr Olusegun Ajanlekoko, said the construction industry had been going through new challenges and surveyors should not be left behind.

Ajanlekoko, at CASLE’s 50th anniversary celebration, said to achieve and sustain the group’s objective, there was a need to redefine the profession.

According to him, the group’s mission is the commitment to the advancement of the surveying profession in the commonwealth and the enhancement of the skills of surveyors in the management of the natural and built environments for the common good.

He said, “To achieve and sustain CASLE DNA is indeed the cause of this our celebration and gathering; in the next 50 years, we must take time to redefine, re-evaluate our DNA, as the way we live and work is rapidly changing.

“We are constantly now more than ever before facing many new challenges; technological development is fast changing the narrative. We must ensure that CASLE is not left behind in these new challenging times.”

He stated that one of the ways to achieve progress in the profession would be to encourage the youths and create space for them in the post 50 years.

“To begin the next journey is the choice of the theme of the conference ‘The future of surveying: Learning from the past’. As we enter our second 50 years, we must redesign ourselves for the new challenges and opportunities that CASLE faces. We still have a lot to do,” he said.

Ajanlekoko said there was also a need for experts in the profession to be wary of providing old answers to new challenges.

“Real excellence requires a new toga in terms of best practice and best global standard. We must now challenge ourselves to go beyond the customary. We must learn to give service in an extraordinary way and have an institution fit for the 21st Century,” he added.

He said the anniversary would be a period of stocktaking for the group.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]