Firm targets middle-income earners in new housing scheme
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Alpha Mead Development Company has revealed plans to meet the housing needs of middle-income earners in its new housing scheme.

The firm said the scheme, Green Park Homes, was created to address the continued call for affordable and quality housing for the middle-income Nigerians.

The project, according to the firm, is in collaboration with IBILE Holdings, the investment arm of Lagos State Government, and has the support of stakeholders including key players in the mortgage industry such as Trust-Bond, AG Homes and the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria.

The Managing Director, AMDC, Mr Damola Akindolire, said the project comprised100 unit of three semi-detached and two-bedroom terrace houses located on the fast-growing Lekki-Epe.

He explained that it offered customers access to the National Housing Fund mortgage at six per cent and a flexible equity contribution payable over 12 months.

Akindolire said the Green Park Home scheme would address three issues for the middle-income class.

These issues, he said, were lack of access to housing finance, low-quality structures and high-mortgage rates.

At the foundation laying of the scheme, he stated that access to housing finance remained one of the biggest challenges of homeownership for the middle-income class in Nigeria today.

He stated that with commercial mortgages at 20 per cent to 25 per cent, homeownership was gradually becoming a tall dream for hardworking middle-income Nigerians.

Akindolire said, “As a real estate company focused on the middle-income class, we went back to the drawing board to think through the entire housing delivery value chain and see what opportunity we can create for our customers. The result of that process is the Green Park Homes.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]