Firm explores information technology in real estate
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Real estate company, Pertinence Limited, is exploring information technology as part of the future of real estate industry.

The firm recently hosted its maiden real estate hackathon, to encourage people to take interest in technology in real estate.

The competition was tagged, Realkathon, with the theme, ‘Sandwiching technology in real estate’.

The General Manager, Pertinence Limited, Mr Jeffrey Ehikioya, said the company decided to host the event ‘as part of its diversification into financial technology.

He said, “We are branching into new business and one of the ways we have been able to do that is by bringing in young people with fresh ideas to come together and develop these products and turn them into business because the business already has a structure, finance and idea.

“That is the basis of this ‘Realkathon’. People came together to brainstorm and provide solutions to industry problems so that those solutions can transform to businesses.”

He stated that many young people put in entries, and the firm selected 48 across African countries.

According to Ehikioya, one of the criteria for the selection was to look out for ideas that can solve a problem.

“As far as it solves a problem, then we can say it will be commercial in terms of bringing in profits and rewards. So, the review team looks at it. And I must confess, it was a bit difficult,” he said.

He said there were seven teams from across Nigeria but other entries came in from Kenya and Uganda.

He said the teams comprised business developers, architects, regional planners, estate managers and user interface designers.

“From the turnout so far, we hope to organise this event once in a year or once in two years and to spread the reach to all other African countries,” he added.

Five judges which included the Co-Founder of Pertinence Limited, Mr Sunday Olorunsheyi, and his partner, Mr Ezekiel Wisdom, were selected to identify the most viable business contestants amongst the teams.

The teams provided solutions on most complex issues in the property business, including rent and digital sale of properties.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]