Nigerian, Australian builders sign pact on building technology
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Nigerian Institute of Building and the Australian Institute of Building have signed a memorandum of understanding to improve on the methodology and technology of building construction.

The MoU, which was signed in Sydney, Australia, is aimed at making both institutes to have a shared commitment to become stronger in the profession.

The National President of NIOB, Mr Kunle Awobodu, said in a statement that the collaboration would promote research in the field of construction and encourage greater participation of members in jointly organised construction events for valuable continuing professional development.

He said the agreement was signed during a construction event tagged ‘Constructing Our World’, jointly organised by the New-Zealand Institute of Building, Australian Institute of Building and Singapore Institute of Building.

The National President of AIB, Mr David Burnell, said both institutes would work together to raise the level of professionalism in the building construction industry and education in Australia and Nigeria.

According to Awobodu, the two institutes have also agreed to exchange information relevant to the development of the building construction management profession in Australia and Nigeria in order to facilitate an understanding of each other’s work.

The High Commissioner of Nigeria in Australia, Ambassador Bello Husseini, was quoted to have said the bilateral relationship would advance construction innovations in Nigeria.

The Vice Chairman of the Council of Registered Builders of Nigeria, Dr Samson Opaluwah, who commended builders’ compliance with standards, said CORBON would continue to promote professionalism in Nigeria.

Awobodu said there were also ongoing discussions on collaboration with the New-Zealand Institute of Building and Singapore Institute of Building to create opportunity for greater collective drive for technology in construction.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]