Insurance sector recapitalisation beneficial to capital market ― Sanusi
In this interview with FEYISAYO POPOOLA, the Director/Group Head, Investment Banking, Coronation Merchant Bank Limited, Mr Abiodun Sanusi, talks about the intending capital raise of insurance companies among others

Looking at the insurance sector recapitalisation and the performance of the capital market in recent times, what impact would the capital raise have on the market and how are investors likely to react to this?

In terms of the insurance sector consolidation, there are two things, either the insurance companies raise capital through right issues or special placements or go through a merger and acquisition route.

Our view is that mergers and acquisitions would dominate more than capital raising and the insurance players would likely reduce from 59 to 25.

Learning from what happened in the banking sector consolidation, if mergers and acquisitions dominate and the number of players reduces to 25, we are going to see more follow on offerings and more initial public offerings in the capital market.

If the insurance companies and investment banks are able to communicate the equity story, it could yield a huge potential in the insurance sector.

There is a huge potential. So, we see a lot of follow on offerings, where more firms would now raise capital and what this means is that it can also be a catalyst to what we have seen in the capital market this year and over the last three or four years.

So, the insurance consolidation is going to have a significant and positive impact on the capital market.

Since we think that there would be more mergers and acquisitions’ consolidation, stronger and bigger players and investors would be more confident to invest.

As we speak, there are lots of pension funds that have not been invested in the insurance sector.

Like what we have seen in the MTN listing, once stronger players emerge from this consolidation, we may likely see more follow-on offerings like we saw during the banking consolidation, and with that, we should have a catalyst to the capital market.

How is Coronation Merchant Bank strategising to take advantage of these investment opportunities that may emanate from this?

Coronation Merchant Bank is a full-fledged investment bank; one of our key service offerings is investment banking, we offer both capital raising services and merger and acquisition and projects and structure advisory.

We are seeing it as an immense opportunity to awaken a sector that has been flat over the years and that is the major theme of our recently-released insurance report, themed ‘From Lagoon to Ocean.’

So, looking at that concept, we see it as an immense potential and we are already positioning to advise a lot of insurance companies on merger and acquisition combinations, which can be through acquisition, merger, or reverse takeover.

We have started working with a lot of insurance companies in the industry to advise them and give them our best-in-class investment advisory services so that at the time this consolidation happens, we are positioned to be a preferred investment bank that would raise the desired equity capital for them to further meet their investment needs and scale-up their operations.

A lot of our team members were in the middle of the banking consolidation in 2004, so we are going to bring our experience and knowledge from the banking consolidation to bear in ensuring that we deliver our services so that this consolidation becomes very successful and we have a very strong insurance industry that can meet expectations of growing 10 folds in the next 10 years.

How would you say the Nigerian economy has fared in the last nine months?

As you are all aware, this is an election year; and in an election year, things are usually slow because a lot of focus and energy is on the political landscape rather than the economy and that was what we saw.

The government would generally be focused on winning the election rather than focusing on the economy.

As you know, in terms of economy, it is all about cumulative impact. If your first quarter is slow, your second quarter will be slow too. So, generally the economy has not grown the way a lot of people expected, especially since coming out of recession in 2017.

The population growth of Nigeria is about three per cent per annum, which means that at the minimum, we need to grow the economy at three per cent.

Any growth below three per cent means that we are decelerating on a per capita income basis. Although, we are growing, we are not growing as fast as our population growth, which is what we have witnessed in the past two years.

What that means is that government policies have not fully impacted on the economy; but we are seeing a lot of progress being made.

Now that the government has settled in and the ministers have been approved and assigned portfolios, and also being in the budget session, we should hopefully see some increased growth in 2020 with the right policy direction and also the guidance of the economy.

But so far, the economy has been technically flat. We have not grown up to the potential we are expected to grow.

The banking sector is supposed to play a key role in the growth of the economy. Does it mean that banks are not effectively playing their part or could that be why the Central Bank of Nigeria initiated the 60 per cent loan-to-deposit ratio?

It’s good. If you look at the structure of our economy, you need to do a deep root analysis of the Gross Domestic Product. About 23 to 25 per cent is from agriculture while about 10 per cent is from oil and gas.

Apparently, the oil and gas that we all think is a major contributor is not contributing as much as people think.

Telecommunications contributes about eight to 10 per cent; and we have other sectors like the trade and all.

I think some private sector policies need to be undertaken in the infrastructure space. The power sector, as we know, has not really lived up to the expectations after the privatisation.

Private sector policies in the power sector needs to be formulated and released so that that sector of the economy can grow; and once it grows, definitely, there is going to be a spiral effect on the economy as well.

Fuel subsidy is also a drag on the economy as we are seeing some sort of most ineffective strategies in that space as there haven’t been a lot of investments in that area. Also, fuel subsidy is a drag because people subsidise production not consumption; so, the government needs to focus on things like this to release more capital for investment in infrastructure.

Security has also been a challenge as there have been a lot of kidnapping incidents on key trade routes, which have affected economic activities for farmers bringing their produce.

The herdsmen and farmers clash has slowed down production across the country.

So, banks are intermediaries and they would only do what they can do. If you even see the growth of the banks, it is only in single digit as none of the banks has delivered double digit growth rate.

A lot of policies need to be geared to open up the economy.

The revival of the telco industry was immense and we need to see that in the power sector, oil and gas downstream sector and other sectors. Then you would see that the banks would support the economy because banks are there to make profit.

What is also largely limiting the banks is the high interest rate regime we have in Nigeria now. The CBN is saddled with two things, which is the stabilisation of the currency and reduction of interest rate. You have to give up something; you cannot have both.

In stabilising the currency, we need to attract foreign investments. As we speak, there are about $17bn to $20bn of foreign portfolio investments in Nigeria, which is a huge chunk of our reserves. We need to keep that large volume of dollars in Nigeria.

So, definitely, we need to offer attractive interest rates to investors on a risk-adjusted basis, which is what the CBN is trying to do. Once you have a high interest rate regime at the risk-free level, it affects the entire economy, because the bank price their credit based on what the risk free rate is. If the risk free rate is 15 per cent, we should definitely expect the banks to lend to corporates higher than that because of the credit risk premium they need to get for extending credit to the corporate sector.

So, that is the reason why it has been challenging for the banks to lend at single-digit or low-digit rate because the CBN provides that direction.

Would you say that is why banks are reluctant to lend to the private sector and do you think the CBN’s directive on minimum loan-to-deposit ratio affects their profitability or increases non-performing loans?

This is a business decision and it depends on the stance the banks take. There are two stances on this matter. One of them is, if I am falling short of the loan-to-deposit ratio, which we have seen that most banks are falling short of, I can increase loans and convert my investments in treasury bills and bonds to high-risk investments.

This means that areas you considered risky, you start putting your money in them.

In that instance, there is a high possibility that the non-performing loan ratio would increase.

The other strategy is, if I am happy with my risk asset and I do not want to increase, I would shed my deposit rate, which we have started seeing in banks. Banks have started shedding their deposit by reducing the deposit rates they give to institutional investors such as the pensions and the likes. However, they cannot control the retail deposit because the citizens need to keep their money in banks.

But the banks can reject deposits from treasury bills, institutional investors and corporates.

So, it just depends on the stance the bank takes.

If you increase your risk asset, you may likely increase your non-performing loan ratio, or not, and that is if you start lending to the real sector or to assets that are good.

But if you are sceptical of the risk, you can reduce your deposit and reduce your loans and you still maintain your non-performing loan ratio.

Invariably, the overall impact is that banks now want to give out more loans due to this policy.

We have also started seeing situations whereby banks restructure loans for companies that are struggling to pay back their loans because the banks want to keep the loans rather than write them off, which is good for the economy.

As we know, a lot of manufacturing companies suffered interest rates at 23 or 24 per cent, especially during the recession, which affected the profitability and capability to payback their loans and default rate increased.

With this policy, banks have started to create a restructuring and create a longer-term loan that those businesses deserve.

So, overall, there is a huge positive gain in this loan-to-deposit ratio, which means more loans would be given and banks would be extending the maturity to longer-term loans.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]