Govt policies should favour young entrepreneurs – Light
Crystal Light, 26, is the Chief Executive Officer of HC Vestimenta, a menswear production company. He tells ANNA OKON about his business and other engagements

What is the scope of your operations at HC Vestimenta?

Currently, we run a garment factory, and provide bespoke tailoring services. We make uniforms for schools and organisations, including the National Youth Service Corps. We have a staff strength of 15 and engage more as ad-hoc staff when we have huge workloads.

We deliver nationwide and also export finely made suits and traditional attire to the United States, United Kingdom and Canada.

What is your educational qualification?

I have a Bachelor in Project Management from the Federal University of Technology Akure, Ondo State.

It appears more young school leavers are embracing fashion these days. Is it that lucrative?

It is more of a ‘business of expression’ than a profit-making one. It is, however, one of the cheapest businesses to start up. Besides, the sewing machine has become a domestic equipment which some young people grew up seeing and having access to. Fashion products are in demand everyday; people always want to look good and stand out, especially with social media platforms such as Instagram and Facebook to share their pictures.

Before settling for fashion, which other business did you try your hands on?

I delved into tailoring while I was in the university in 2014. Before then, I had tried my hands at photography, graphics designing and printing, among other things. I did those things primarily to sustain myself as a student. I ran my operations basically on referrals, designing and printing notebooks for departments and faculties in the school.

I then made customised shirts for a fellowship’s anniversary. They loved it and needed a tailor to produce more, so I decided to take up the production. I sourced for fabrics, then outsourced to tailors. After I successfully delivered on the project, I decided that my company would offer fashion designing and tailoring services, and registered the business with the Corporate Affairs Commission, after which I started full operations.

How did you get the funds to start the business?

I didn’t make much profit from the first bulk of shirts I produced because I undercharged and faced some issues because of my inexperience in the business. Basically, I had N9000 at the end of the project. And that was what I used to start HC Vestimenta. I simply bought fabrics with the N9000; then crafted new designs and outsourced to a tailor to produce.

With that system, I was making about 80 per cent profit. In 2016, I placed second at the Global Student Entrepreneurs Award and won a seed investment of N500, 000 which I used to expand my operations.

What were the mistakes you made early in the business that you’ve learnt from?

I didn’t take my time to learn enough before starting out. I had so much energy and enthusiasm, and I was basically learning on the job. By the way, I am a self-taught tailor. I learnt from YouTube and books. That may not be such a good approach to business, but I’m a disruptor.

What other businesses did you engage in before running HC Vestimenta?

I am a certified business developer. I lead operations at MAX.NG in Ondo State during the day, and I run HC Vestimenta in the evenings and every other time on the clock.

I also lead engagements and partnership at Playtown Interactive where we develop programmes, games and activities to help teams bond and increase productivity in the workplace.

Who are your role models in the fashion business?

My role models are Seyi Adekunle of Vodi Tailors and Kola Kuddus. I have had interactions with Kola a few times, as I have attended events where he spoke. But for Seyi, he is quite hard to reach, perhaps because we are not in the same state.

What are the challenges you face at this stage of the business?

Human capital is the major challenge, as it is a problem we have all the time. The good ones are very ambitious and won’t stay for long because they want to start their own businesses. In my case, I have been quite inspiring to my apprentices and staff members that they outgrow their entry phase in no time and begin to see that they can also do what I’m doing.

I have trained over 21 tailors in the past two years; and 13 of them have their own thriving fashion businesses now. It feels good but it is also a challenge for business.

What’s your advice to young people looking for jobs?

I would tell them the same thing they hear every day. Create and constantly add value to yourself.

How can government help young entrepreneurs grow?

By creating policies that favour start-ups and SMEs.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]