Hard work, results responsible for my accomplishments – Ogar
Victoria Ogar, an assistant manager at FilmOne Distribution and Production, talks to OLADUNJOYE DAVID about her accomplishments and challenges on the job

Tell us about your educational background.

For my elementary education, I attended Daystar Elementary School, Akinogun Road, Ipaja, Lagos State. I went to Fluorescent Comprehensive Private Academy, Ipaja, Lagos, for my secondary education. I graduated from the University of Calabar, Calabar, with a degree in Education and History.

Also, I did a professional development course on Customer Relationship Management which gave me an idea of how to effectively manage people and relate to business operations. I am currently studying for a Masters’ in Diplomacy and Strategic Studies at the University of Lagos.

Tell us about your job?

I work for a film distribution company called FilmOne Distribution and Production. It is an independent film entertainment company that provides top-end film release services, and distributes a wide range of commercial pictures, including international and indigenous titles across the globe.

Our objective is to generate and maximise box office revenues to the benefit of both the studios/producers and exhibitors.

What is your job description?

I am an assistant manager (Nollywood Studios) in charge of evaluation and selection of titles for cinema release.

Why did you apply for this job?

I did because I am very passionate about the arts. I am interested in how stories are created.

What are the challenges you face and how do you surmount them?

Some of the challenges I face include having to watch different movies and decide if they are suitable for cinema release or now. Also, getting cinemas to book the movies and manage the expectations of the producers. It is not easy to describe how I surmount these challenges because the stories are different, so are the producers. In all, client management and building healthy relationships are very the key in this business.

What are the other factors that helped you overcome the hard times?

Most times, having to provide recommendations to clients and exercising patience every now and then.

What factors are responsible for your accomplishments and getting to the position you occupy?

Hard work and results are responsible for my accomplishments and getting to the position I presently occupy.

What are the notable achievements you’ve had since working there?

Most important for me is been able to work with a committed team to produce and distribute one of the biggest Nollywood movies, The Wedding Party 1 and 2.

Secondly, having to contribute to the growth of film business in Nigeria and getting the industry to global standards.

Lastly, building my network of contacts. For me, keeping healthy relationships is the best achievement.

Where did you work before joining your present company?

Swish Ideas.

How do you plan on rising to the top?

By being committed and identifying new opportunities.

What are your long-term goals?

My long-term goal is to own a business and provide job opportunities.

Does your job affect your social life?

Yes it does, although I try as much as possible to strike a balance.

Who are your role models?

The strong women out there making a difference with their careers and still able to manage their families.

What are some of the qualities you think a leader must possess in order to be successful?

A leader must be committed to serve; have patience in working with people, and be humble. A leader should also be open-minded in the sense that one has to be ready for anything. Lastly, work smart and not hard.

What are your other interests?

I love cooking, travelling, teaching, playing the piano, and basically doing something new.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]