FG’s solar plant will expand Kebbi’s economy – Bagudu
‘Femi Asu

The Governor of Kebbi State, Abubakar Bagudu, has said the new solar hybrid mini-grid built by the Federal Government will expand and transform the economic landscape of the state.

The Federal Government, through the Rural Electrification Agency, inaugurated a 98.8KW solar hybrid mini grid power plant on Tuesday at Kare-Dadin Kowa, Kebbi State, under its Rural Electrification Fund, as part of its commitment to provide equitable access to electricity across regions in Nigeria, according to a statement issued by REA.

“Small businesses like welders, cold rooms, as well as processing mills can now operate more effectively with reliable and clean electricity as a result of this project.” Bagudu was quoted as saying by REA.

The statement said the solar hybrid mini grid system would provide clean energy to 483 residential buildings, 82 commercial buildings and would serve over 3,000 inhabitants of Kare-Dadin Kowa.

It said a total of 565 high grid solar panels had been installed to power homes, businesses, places of worship, schools, and health centres, among others.

Speaking on the project’s implementation, the Executive Director, REF, Dr Sanusi Ohiare, said, “Kare-Dadin Kowa community is the second of 12 communities earmarked to benefit from REF grants.

“This is due to following and attaining legal, regulatory and procurement compliance and no objection from the Federal Government.”

As a result of collaboration among the Rural Electrification Agency, the House of Representatives’ Committee on Power, the National Assembly, the Federal Executive Council, and many more government partners, the Federal Government worked to facilitate the intervention fund, the statement said.

The Chairman, House Committee of Power, Aliyu Mayaji, said, “The legislative arm of the government is doing everything within its power to provide all the support and oversight needed to successfully implement the Rural Electrification Fund.”

The Minister, Federal Ministry of Power, Saleh Mamman, congratulated all parties involved in the project.

Mamman said the Ministry of Power would continue to provide requisite policy interventions to ensure that transformative projects had the desired impact of electrifying Nigeria.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]