Indigenous firm targets 700,000 litres daily ethanol production
Anna Okon

An indigenous ethanol production firm, Unicane Industries Limited, Lokoja, has announced plans to complete its current plant expansion by the second quarter of 2020.

The firm said that upon completion, Unicane, a subsidiary of Unikem Industries Limited, would produce 400,000 litres of Extra Neutral Alcohol per day.

According to a statement by an Executive Director of Unicane

Industries Limited, Mr Uzor Kalu, the industrial group whose presence in Nigeria exceeds nine decades, has continually led and defined the ethanol industry.

He said the company had invested tens of billions of naira in plant and machinery, built capacity and evolved from import reprocessing to upstream integration of local sourcing of raw materials of cassava, cashew apples and sugarcane molasses.

According to him, when Unicane’s ENA output of 400,000 litres per day is added to the production of Unikem Industries Limited, the group would achieve a combined daily ENA output of 700,000 litres, which will translate to an annual capacity of 210 million litres in bulk and packaged drums with a product quality that compares with the highest international standards.

Kalu said in 2013, Unicane acquired an expanse of land in Jamata village in Lokoja Local Government of Kogi State to set up a state-of-the-art local cassava fermentation – to – distillation plant with 400,000 litres per day capacity of ENA from 100 per cent local raw materials.

He said the firm that began its first phase of production in 2018 had quickly revolutionised cassava farming in Kogi State and its environs, turning cassava from a mere subsistence crop to a lucrative cash crop.

He listed other benefits of the development to include import substitution, foreign exchange savings, thousands of direct and indirect employment opportunities and government revenue generation.

Combined with the production of other locally-based manufacturers, Kalu stated that total national ENA capacity would far exceed national consumption, eliminating the need for ethanol imports in Nigeria.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]