NESP develops local expertise on energy efficiency
Okechukwu Nnodim

In its bid to increase the usage of energy efficiency measures in the Nigerian building sector, the Nigerian Energy Support Programme has started developing local expertise for the delivery of energy efficiency services such as energy audits in buildings.

According to the NESP, a three-phase Professional Energy Auditors training was recently concluded in Abuja for building industry professionals and policymakers in the public and private sectors on how to conduct energy audits in buildings.

It said the first phase of the PEA training, which was held in May in Abuja and Lagos, had 300 building professionals who were introduced to the concept of ‘building energy audit.’

In a statement issued in Abuja on Friday, the NESP stated that at the end of the first phase of the training, participants completed an assessment which was used to identify persons with demonstrated knowledge of the principles and practices of energy auditing.

It said the second phase of the PEA training was an eight-day practical training held from 11th to 20th September for the shortlisted participants from the first phase in Abuja.

In her address at the opening of the training, the Head of Energy Section of the delegation of the European Union to the Federal Republic of Nigeria and ECOWAS, Catherine Thomsen, said the importance of energy efficiency in combatting climate change effects could not be overemphasised.

The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, who was represented by the Director, Mechanical Engineering Services, Valentine Nwaimo, said energy audit skills would aid in developing the Nigerian energy efficiency sector.

The Head of Component, Enabling Environment of NESP, Ene Macharm, expressed delight at the progress made by the trainees and looked forward to the development of local expertise in the provision of building energy efficiency services.

The NESP noted that in total, 25 building professionals gained hands-on experience of standard building energy audit implementation and energy efficiency recommendation processes to improve energy savings in buildings.

It stated that during the workshop, participants carried out an energy audit of a hotel in Abuja and presented a report to the facility’s management, adding that on completion of the training, the trainees wrote examinations relating to the taught modules.

The agency said successful candidates would then receive international certification as Professional Energy Auditors.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]