PZ Cussons rejigs baby competition, changes judges
PZ Cussons has announced a few changes in its titular baby competition, Cussons Baby Moments. Cussons Baby Moments’ rides on the back of one of its forest brands, Cussons Baby.

Announcing the commencement of the popular family competition’s sixth edition in Lagos, it gave names of a new panel of judges as Nollywood actor, Deyemi Okanlawon; veteran actress, Ufuoma McDermott; and a food and lifestyle blogger, Yemisi Odusanya, popularly known as Sisi Yemmie.

The Brand Manager, Cussons Baby, Oluwabusayo John, said the mechanics of the competition had also been reviewed so as to reduce the stress on the participants, and the competition would now allow for multiple entries, giving every entrant many chances to be shortlisted for the voting stages.

He added, “Furthermore, the voting stages will be hosted on an independent voting site to avoid any hitches; and entrants now stand a chance to earn weekly rewards during the call-to-entry stage.

“The theme of this year’s competition tagged ‘Sharing Magic Memories’ emphasises the need ‘to celebrate and share special moments between babies and their families.”

John also said that the new Cussons Baby Gift Pack which would be hitting the stands next month had been relaunched.

The Cussons Baby Moments competition, which celebrated its 5th anniversary in 2017, witnessed one of the highest entries in the competition’s history, and subsequently took a break in 2018, returning this year revamped to give participants more opportunities and even greater value.

The winner of the competition will at the grand finale receive a cash prize of N1,000,000. The first-runner up will win N750,000 and the second-runner up will win N500, 000. All three will also be awarded with a year’s supply of Cussons Baby products, according to the firm.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]