Indomie celebrates uniqueness in BBNaija task
Samuel Awoyinfa

Indomie Big Brother Naija brand ambassador & music producer, Don Jazzy, along with Mavin artiste and a fellow entertainer, Dr Sid, visited the Big Brother Naija house, spending some quality time with the housemates courtesy Indomie noodles.

The visit saw the duo of music heavyweights served as the task masters and superintended the Indomie cooking challenge – “My Indomie My Style Task”, carried out by the BBN housemates.

The first challenge saw the housemates trying to piece together jigsaw puzzles made out of Indomie packs (Indomie Chicken Hungryman, Onion Bellefull flavour, Oriental Fried noodles, Chicken Pepper Soup & Giant Pack).

Puzzle boards were set up in the games arena and housemates were all in a race against time to complete their puzzles. Ike, Khafi and Frodd were the first three to conclude the task.

On completion of the puzzle challenge, each housemate was then handed a customised by fans Indomie basket with various ingredients for them to prepare their unique style of Indomie.

This task was carried out with only two housemates allowed in the kitchen at a time, each with 15 minutes to prepare their individual Indomie delight. Khafi and Ike went first, setting the ball rolling for an epic culinary battle.

As the housemates presented their meals to Don Jazzy for tasting, he welcomed them with a smile and an enthusiastic palate. Each housemate not only presented their own unique meal but also accompanied it with a fancy rap, dance and other creative additives.

Announcing the winners, Don Jazzy declared, “There is no one style that is the most unique. Everyone’s style is unique to them and so is their Indomie, so all the housemates will share five million naira.’’

Ike, Frodd and Khafi who were the top three in the Indomie packs Jigsaw Puzzle Challenge walked away with a year’s supply of Indomie and the opportunity to send acustomised ingredient baskets to their family members.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]