Accounts you could open for kids
Feyisayo Popoola

If you are about to add a child or grandchild to your brood, chances are you are probably getting countless tips on how to soothe, feed and care for your soon-to-be bundle of joy.

You are finding some advice to be common knowledge, while other tips are valuable insights that could improve their quality of life.

Whatever nuggets of wisdom you decide to add to your repertoire, do not lose sight of the fact that you also play a significant role in his or her financial well-being. Even if you think college is a long way down the road and retirement is light-years ahead, the truth is that it is never too soon to start planning for the future.

Since this is probably the last thing you want to hear right now, if you are still wrapping your head around the idea of sleepless nights and yet another product assembly. Let us make things easier for you on the financial front.

Here are three accounts you can establish to help your baby achieve future financial success, according to financialengines.com

Educational savings plans

An education savings plan or account operated by a state or educational institution is needed. Money put into an educational plan grows tax deferred, as long as it is used for qualified educational purposes.

A nice feature of the educational plan is that it allows your kids (or grandkids) to receive contributions from family members in lieu of gifts and toys.

Minimum amounts for opening such accounts vary by country, but they can be as low as N2,500. There is no deadline for when the funds must be used, and the beneficiary can be changed at any time.

However, remember that this type of investment account is designed for educational purposes only — including tuition, books and other education-related expenses at qualifying colleges, universities and other schools.

In the event the funds are used for non-educational expenses, the funds will be subject to a 10 per cent tax.

Brokerage accounts

Starting an investment account for a new child can help them take their first steps into the market.

Although the account will have to be in your name, you have the ability to attach your child’s name as well. Then once he or she reaches legal age, the assets can be transferred to them.

While these brokerage accounts do not offer the tax advantages of an educational plan, they do offer the same opportunity for favourable returns.

Since time is so critical to investment success, the more time you have, the better off you are.

A child who receives a modest monetary gift today could be on the road to becoming a millionaire tomorrow. Let us say you want to start funding your kid’s retirement nest egg. If you invest N5,000 around the day your child/grandchild is born and never touch the investment again nor make another contribution, that N5,000 can grow to more than N890,000 by your child’s 65th birthday (based on an eight per cent annual return.

Another advantage to a brokerage account is the ability to have the investments managed by professionals.

Over time, the right diversification of mutual funds has the best chance at beating inflation and earning a good rate of return.

Custodial accounts

Rather than spending a lot of time and money setting up a trust for your child, you can set up a custodial account and receive the same financial benefits.

For tax and other reasons, parents, grandparents and others sometimes want to transfer ownership of cash and other financial assets to children who are too young to handle such assets.

Custodial accounts are invested in your child’s name and managed by you until the child reaches a certain age, which varies from 18 to 21 years depending on the country.

Once your child reaches the required age, the custodial account is terminated and the money belongs solely to them.

The tax rates on custodial accounts vary. Some earnings are tax-free, while higher earnings may be taxed at the child’s rate, then at the parent’s rate.

A custodial account offers the benefit of being flexible on how the money can be invested — stocks, bonds, mutual funds and even real estate.

In addition, the money does not have to be used for educational purposes. A major consideration with this type of account, though, is that a child’s eligibility for college financial aid could be impacted by sizeable assets in a custodial account.

From the first moment your child arrives home to the many happy years ahead, your family’s financial planning needs will evolve.

With the proper preparation, you can ensure you are ready for whatever life has in store — for you and your kids.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]