Union Bank empowers 40 female entrepreneurs
‘Femi Asu

Union Bank of Nigeria Plc, in conjunction with a women-focused non-profit organisation, Leading Ladies Africa, has unveiled 40 female entrepreneurs who will be participating in the Enterprise and Leadership Programme.

The initiative, being put together by Leading Ladies Africa, is a two-month, practical, hands-on programme focused on enabling women entrepreneurs in Nigeria to identify business opportunities, create and sustain viable enterprises, and scale up their businesses.

Speaking at a press briefing where the participants were unveiled, the Chief Digital and Innovation Officer, Union Bank, Lola Cardoso, said, “We identified this initiative as one that will help amplify our efforts to support women and drive gender balance in Nigeria.

“Union Bank is proud to support these female entrepreneurs and enable their success. We are excited about the impact the programme will have on the women and their businesses, and the ripple effects on the society at large.”

“We are pleased that Union Bank, through its αlpher initiative is fully supporting Leading Ladies Africa’s Enterprise and Leadership Programme,” said the Founder, Leading Ladies Africa, Francesca Uriri.

“We’re running this programme because we understand that there is a very clear need for most micro, small and medium- sized businesses to develop structure and systems that enable them scale, generate profit and become sustainable.”

She said, “We received over 1,700 entries for this programme from female entrepreneurs in Nigeria, and even from other African countries, further reiterating the need and value in supporting enterprise. The Programme will be run in conjunction with the China Europe Business School, because we understand how important it is for the ladies to benefit from a global academic and business faculty.”

Union Bank said it would continue to support initiatives that would foster women empowerment and gender balance.

“Through αlpher, the bank’s newly introduced women’s proposition, it is focused on enabling success for women of all ages and backgrounds, providing them with the support they require to live more empowered and fulfilled lives,” it added.

According to the statement, Leading Ladies Africa is a women-focused non-profit with the vision of achieving 25 per cent of female representation in the fields of Leadership, business, politics and advocacy.

“Leading Ladies Africa’s key objectives are to promote inclusivity and diversity, and also to develop programmes that will equip women with skills, provide hands on capacity training and inspire them to achieve their set objectives in their lives, businesses and careers. A key aim of Leading Ladies Africa is to meet the UN’s fifth Sustainable Development Goal of empowering women and promoting gender equality.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]