FCMB rewards 644 customers in millionaire promo
Feyisayo Popoola

First City Monument Bank Plc has rewarded another set of 644 customers with cash and gifts at the third draw of its ongoing reward scheme tagged, ‘FCMB Millionaire Promo Season 6’.

The bank said in a statement that the electronic selection of the winners took place at the regional and zonal levels of the bank across Nigeria and was witnessed by officials of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission, National Lottery Regulatory Commission and other customers.

According to the statement, four customers were rewarded with N1m each at the regional draws held in Lagos, Kano, Uyo and Ilorin, while 640 others were rewarded with gift items such as LED televisions, generating sets, decoders, tablets, smartphones and other consolation prizes.

The bank said at the Lagos regional draw that Hosny Mattar won the star prize of N1m, while Patricia Anya was rewarded with the same amount at the Abuja and North Regional draw.

One Orji Chinenye won N1m at the South-East/South-South draw held in Uyo, while Ajai Aderotimi won at the South-West regional draw in Ilorin.

The Executive Director, Retail Banking, FCMB, Mr Olu Akanmu, said, ‘We will continue to appreciate and empower our customers to fulfil their aspirations.

“This is why we encourage them to save through programmes like our promo. The draws are unique because they take place in several cities and zones across our branches nationwide.”

“The fact that the lives of thousands of many of them have been positively changed through the promo speaks volume about its impact. We are also committed to distinguishing our offerings in the retail banking space by delivering exceptional products and services that will ultimately ensure the growth and achievement of the aspirations of our customers.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]