Leather policy’ll enhance productivity — Minister
Samuel Awoyinfa

The Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, has said that the national leather policy of the ministry will contribute significantly to economic diversification of the country.

He disclosed this when he addressed the advisory board of the Society of Leather Technologists and Chemists of Nigeria who paid him a courtesy call in his office on Thursday in Abuja.

Onu, in a statement, further said that the National Leather Products Policy would also help Nigeria in earning more foreign exchange through export.

He further said Nigeria could boost her economy by earning foreign exchange from leather products.

He said, “Earnings from export of leather and leather related products will help Nigeria avoid an economic recession.”

Leather and textile, he added, had been a gateway for industrialisation of many countries, adding, “Through leather and textile, Nigeria will be able to develop more sophisticated technologies.”

The Nigerian Institute of Leather Science Technology was presently supplying the Nigerian Armed Forces with footwears, a feat, he said, was worth celebrating.

He urged leather technologists to help transfer their skills to willing young Nigerians so as to improve the nation’s productivity as well as the Gross Domestic Product.

The President, Society of Leather Technologists and Chemists of Nigeria, Dr Fidelis Tanko, said leather was of international value and could change the economic fortunes of nations.

He added that the global value for leather trade was worth $100m per annum.

In addition, he called on Nigeria to key into the leather global trade to earn more foreign exchange and provide employment opportunities for Nigerians.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]