Give economic council authority to perform– LCCI
Samuel Awoyinfa

The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry has commended President Muhammadu Buhari on the formation of a new Economic Advisory Council, made up of mostly technocrats in the private sector.

It has, therefore, advised that they should be given the authority and support to perform.

Speaking through its Director-General, Muda Yusuf, it stated, “The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry commends the setting up of the Economic Advisory Council by President Muhammadu Buhari. This is a welcome development which will help to give the desired direction to the nation’s economic management. The stature, pedigree and the independence of the members of the council are clearly not in doubt. They are tested technocrats.

“We appeal to the President to give the advisory council ample scope, responsibility and authority to provide the much-needed guidance and advice on policy choices. We are convinced that the content and structure of economic policy will be greatly enriched if this happens.”

Yusuf added that this was the time to accelerate reforms, ensure fiscal consolidation, enthrone a market- driven foreign exchange policy and promote a trade policy regime that would be in consonance with the potential and competitiveness of the Nigerian economy.

He noted that at a time like this, the economy needed such a team to pull it back from the brink (of collapse).

He said, “The management of the Nigerian economy needs to be anchored on tested economic principles that will propel sustainable growth and development. The economy craves for a critical mass of private sector investment to stem the current slide and declines in the economy.

“We need to boost the confidence of investors for such private capital flows to happen. The economy desires policies that are coherent, consistent, coordinated, synchronised and transparent.”

The LCCI DG advised that it had become imperative that the economy should be managed in such a way to harness the bountiful entrepreneurial energies and resourcefulness of the Nigerian people.

The new EAC Buhari named on Monday had Prof Doyin Salami as the chairman. Other members are Dr Mohammed Sagagi (vice-chairman), Prof Ode Ojowu, Dr Shehu Yahaya, Dr Iyabo Masha; Prof Chukwuma Soludo, Mr Bismark Rewane and Dr Mohammed Adaya Salisu (secretary).

The announcement of the EAC, which was contained in a statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, added, “This advisory council will replace the current Economic Management Team and will be reporting directly to the President.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]