Edo govt, firms train 1,000 beekeepers
Samuel Awoyinfa

The Edo State Government in collaboration with Thrive Agric and Market Development in the Niger-Delta have trained over 1,000 bee farmers across the state on techniques to increase its productivity and profitability.

At the end of the training, according to a statement, 40 of them got N190,000 worth of start-up pack each.

Speaking to journalists at the one-day ceremony to distribute the start-up packs to the farmers, Senior Special Assistant to the State Governor on Jobs Creation and Skills Development, Mrs Ukinedo Dare, said the Edo Food and Agricultural Cluster partnered MADE to train farmers and interested people on beekeeping.

“The training was held at the Edo Innovation Hub, in Edo South and other locations in Edo Central and Edo North Senatorial Districts. One of our partners, Thrive Agric has selected some of the trained honey farmers to give them start-up packs to start honey production.

“Thrive Agric is already on ground to buy honey from the farmers as the partnership will encourage the farmers and enhance profitability.”

Dare said the state government was planning to have a honey processing factory in the state.

Operations Lead, Thrive Agric, Obaka Ikani, said farmers stood to benefit a lot from the partnership with Edo State in increasing productivity.

The Field Officer, MADE, Raphael Olorunfemi, said the reason for the partnership was to help honey makers increase production and profits.

“We have discovered some few gaps experienced by farmers where they need intervention and we joined forces with Edo State Government and other partners to train farmers in the state.”

One of the beneficiaries, Dr Bee Oboh, thanked the Edo State Government, Thrive Agric and MADE for the training, noting, “I thought I knew about beekeeping, but after the training, some months ago, I discovered that I lacked knowledge in some key areas.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]