Flooding: NERC prioritises electricity from hydropower plants
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

To forestall additional flooding in communities across the country, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission says electricity generated by hydropower plants will be evacuated first.

This is to enable the power plants to continue operation and avert the danger of flooding which had been threatening the nation in recent months.

Nigeria’s three hydropower stations are all located in Niger State and they are the 578.4 megawatts Jebba plant, 760MW Kainji plant and the 600MW Shiroro plant.

In a regulatory order released in Abuja on Thursday, the commission declared that electricity generated from the three hydropower stations would be dispatched first before any other.

It said the generation companies’ quantum of power were now prioritised ahead of those of any other Genco in Nigeria and mandated the System Operations of the Transmission Company of Nigeria to take note of the danger of not prioritising them.

The power sector regulator ordered the SO to within 48 hours to write to the commission to explain why there would be any deviation from this order.

The commission stated, “The meteorological forecasts for 2019 indicated that there would be significant events of flooding across the country and these forecasts have been confirmed with the high incidents of heavy rainfall for long durations across the country.”

“A major consequence of this meteorological event on the operations of the three hydropower stations (i.e. Jebba, Kainji and Shiroro) has been high rate of reservoir fill-up which poses extreme environmental risks to lives/property downstream from the plants that could result in submerging entire villages along the riverbank

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]