More confusion as two factions emerge in RTEAN
Rasheed Bisiriyu

Two factions have emerged in Road Transport Employers’ Association of Nigeria as the former Deputy National President, Alhaji Musa Muhammed, has resumed as the new president of the transport group,

But Mr Osakpanwan Eriyo insisted that he remained the substantive president of the association, saying the process that produced Muhammad as the new leader was illegal and unconstitutional.

Muhammed was elevated from the position of deputy national president (administration) to the position of acting president, following the dismissal of Eriyo by the National Executive Council of the association.

The RTEAN NEC, which took the decision at an emergency meeting in Lagos on Tuesday, also announced the expulsion of the union’s Secretary-General, Mr Ibrahim Yusuf.

Yusuf was replaced by the former Deputy Secretary-General, Mr Henry Ejiofor, who was installed in acting capacity.

The NEC said that the expulsion Eriyo and Yusuf followed allegations of fraudulent activities against them and the alleged creation of chaos in some state executive councils of the union.

Muhammed formally accepted his appointment by 28 members of the NEC as acting president of the association on Thursday.

Eriyo had said the dismissal had no effect, noting that the NEC members who announced his dismissal had no such power.

He argued further that Lagos was not the headquarters of the association where such decision could be taken.

Muhammed, who spoke after a meeting with some NEC members where he accepted his appointment in acting capacity as the national president, said his appointment was guided by the constitution.

He said he would always be guided by the constitution of the association, adding that he also remained as the Lagos State chairman of the association as his tenure would elapse on October 31.

Muhammed said, “My position has been confirmed by the Lagos State Government after a meeting presided over by the Deputy Governor, Mr Obafemi Hamzat.”

He noted that there was nowhere in the constitution where it was stated that NEC must meet in Abuja.

He, however, urged state and zonal leaders to align with him in the task of moving the association forward.

Muhammed, when asked if the development meant that the association had been factionalised, said there was nothing wrong with that, noting that similar development had been witnessed in the Nigeria Labour Congress and other associations.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]