Stakeholders demand private investment in water plants
Samuel Awoyinfa

Stakeholders have called on the Federal Government to enact a law that will allow private investors to own water plants for generation of water and supply to the public.

This, they noted, would ensure the challenge of water production and supply is holistically addressed.

They spoke at the Nigeria’s water challenge event held in Lagos. It was organised by the Polish Investment and Trade Agency in partnership with the Govtech Poland, attached to the Polish Prime Minister’s Office.

The event hosted stakeholders from water boards, private organisations, experts on water-related issues and journalists.

A director of water quality control and sanitation, Federal Ministry of Water Resources, Mr Emmanuel Awe, noted that there were many issues affecting efficient water supply in the country, arguing that was why President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration declared a state of emergency in water sector.

He said the state governments had their own challenges even as he noted that the issue of adequate water supply had suffered setback due to issues of epileptic power, inadequate funding and lack of capacity building.

He said, “In tackling water problem, there are the challenges of power, funding and capacity building. The power is epileptic, no adequate funding and capacity building. That was why the Federal Government declared a state of emergency in water sector.

“There is a need for government to create an enabling environment to allow private sector participation in the water sector, since the government cannot provide water for everybody. Private investors should be allowed to construct water plants, run them and make money for their sustainability. Water has no enemy; people are ready to pay for water.”

The General Manager/Chief Executive Officer, Lagos Water Corporation, Mumuni Badmus, also said there was a need for a institutional framework to give autonomy to water boards, noting that they were so much under government influence and control.

He said, “The water boards are not independent; there is a lot of government influence. They equally suffer dearth of funding.”

The National Chairman, Nigerian Institution of Water Engineers, Mr Abolade Lawal, who is an engineer, explained that the challenges confronting the water sector differed from state to state, town to town and village to village.

He equally said the water corporations in the states were once vibrant and efficient in generation and supply but many had gone comatose due to multifarious reasons.

He said, “There are institutional problems, where professionals are sidelined on the altar of political patronage, thereby putting round pegs in square holes.

“Again, the issue of power, lack of data and capacity building are there. Government must free up the water sector and allow public private partnership in the provision and supply of water.”

A representative from the Govtech Poland, Antoni Rytel, said Poland like Nigeria also had water challenge and is still in search of solution to ensure effective water generation and supply to the citizens.

He added that both countries could learn from the solutions proffered to address the challenge of water in a sustainable manner.

Other suggestions at the event include political will to implement water policies; engagement of professionals and end users in water-related policies and implementation, and provision of reliable data for planning.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]