TantaSecure unveils protection plans for home appliance users
An indigenous device protection and Information Communication Technology firm, Tanta Secure Limited, has unveiled a series of protection plans for smartphone and home appliances users in Nigeria.

According to the firm, the service known as corporate and individual plans is aimed at changing the narrative on how people use and fix their devices in the country.

Speaking during the unveiling at the company’s premises in Lagos on Wednesday, the Chairman, Mr Abraham Tanta, said it would address critical challenges such as quality products and services, dearth of qualified technicians as well as original equipment parts.

Tanta said the firm developed various packages where people could get the protection of their devices with a token while spreading the payment plans between six and 12 months.

According to him, the service is aimed at capturing various segments of the society with a money-back guarantee when nothing happens to the device.

He emphasised that the company had established strategic relationships with technicians across the country while deploying an artificial intelligence-enabled app that could scan for problems and locate nearest technician within a one-kilometre radius.

He said, “As Nigerians get busier by the day and embrace sophisticated devices and home appliances, the need to maintain them becomes imperative and imminent. With the TantaSecure plan, the company bridges those needs. Offering convenience and confidence, our corporate and individual plans bring respite to Nigerians and addresses critical questions on who fixes these devices when they get damaged? How to get reputable technicians and how fast can services be delivered?

“We have designed these products for individuals and corporate organisations in mind. We are trying as much as possible to reduce the burden of maintaining, repairing and sourcing for original parts for the customers.”

The Marketing Director of the firm, Mr Sam Igwe, said the company believed that Nigerians must start protecting their devices at a cost-effective method and in a convenient manner.