Customers hail Sumec mobile service
Samuel Awoyinfa

Customers using Sumec Firman brand of generators have commended the mobile repair service being organised by the manufacturers of the generators.

The company now have its engineers in designated areas where customers could bring their faulty Sumec generators for repair.

Speaking on the mobile service, the Head, Sumec Nigerian Team, Mr Frederic Wang, said that the service was embarked upon by the management after several complaints from customers.

He said, “It was our pro-active reaction to several ‘save our soul’ requests from our esteemed customers. We simply trained and deployed our engineers to diagnose the problem of our customer’s generators and fix them on the spot while they watch.

“Our findings show that 90 per cent of the faults are attributable to fake parts that not only decrease their capacity utilisation, but also damage the generators fast.”

He noted that this cheap short cut syndrome of buying fake parts or recycling used parts by roadside mechanics could be “very dangerous and destructive.”

On the future plans of the mobile service, Wang said that the project had been successfully carried out in Lagos at Ikeja, Surulere and Festac Town with over 2,000 customers assisted. He added that one more service workshop was being planned for Lagos customers at the end of September and Onitsha would be the next.

One of the customers who enjoyed the service in Festac Town, Mr Emmanuel Uranta, said the service “is really helping us correct the mess inflicted on us by generator mechanics who are simply quacks”.

Another customer, Mr Edward Adewale, whose unserviceable generator was fixed in Ikeja, said he was very happy and full of joy when his generator started working in an amazing capacity again.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]