Gemstones: Miners, security agencies to tackle illegal exportation
Ihuoma Chiedozie, Abuja

The Small-scale and Artisanal Miners Association of Nigeria is to collaborate with the Office of the National Security Adviser and other security agencies to check the rate of illegal exportation of gold and other gemstones mined in the country.

Secretary of the association, Alhaji Saleh Abu Katsina, informed our correspondent that ‎Nigeria was losing a huge amount of revenue as a result of the uncontrolled exportation of the country’s gemstones by foreigners, particularly Chinese, Sri Lankan, Senegalese and Malian nationals.

The precious stones exported illegally from Nigeria are said to be sold as minerals sourced from Mozambique, a Southern African country.

At a recent meeting with the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite, and the Minister of State, Uche Ogah, in Abuja, the association had said that it was developing a database of all artisanal miners in the country.

Kastsina, in an interview with our correspondent in Abuja on Thursday, said the database would be handed over to the security agencies.

The decision to develop the database was partly informed by reports which linked the artisanal miners to banditry and other forms of insecurity in parts of the country.

But Katsina added that the database, which would feature the profiles of all identified local miners in the country, would also serve as a vital tool for security agencies in checking illegal trading in the country’s precious stones.

SAMAN, the umbrella body of the artisanal miners, had at the meeting with the management of the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, said it would partner the government to reposition the mining sector.

Katsina further informed our correspondent that foreigners, who currently dominate the trade in Nigerian gemstones, had capitalised on lapses in the system to rip off the Federal Government and Nigerian local miners.

The gemstones are reportedly moved to Hong Kong and Thailand, where they are resold for huge profits at international prices.

Beyond the loss of revenue, Katsina said the biggest concern was the ‘loss of identity’ for Nigerian precious stones which were being sold in the international market without any reference to the country.

“We are facing illegal exportation of our gemstones to Hong Kong and Thailand but the major concern about this illegal exportation is not just the loss of revenue for the country, our major concern is the loss of identity for Nigerian minerals.

“Because they (foreigners) don’t want to pay what they are supposed to pay to the Federal Government as tax, when they take Nigerian gemstones to Hong Kong or Thailand, they will not say this tourmaline was mined in Ife in Oyo State, Nigeria, instead they will tell the buyers there that the gemstone came from Mozambique. Because of what is happening, our gemstones don’t have identity,” Katsina said.

While Nigeria boasts abundant deposits of gold and other precious stones in various parts of the country, foreigners are controlling the lucrative but illicit trade in the minerals.

Ninety per cent of the gemstones’ exporters operating in the country at the moment are foreigners, according to Katsina.

Sri Lankans mostly dominate the trade in sapphires; while Malians and Senegalese control the exportation of gold and other ‘coloured stones’. The Chinese and Indians mostly deal in various types of industrial minerals.

Foreigners took control of the mining industry because the local miners do not have the requisite capacity, according to Katsina.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]