Rooftop agric ventures are viable
Jennifer Abraham

Rooftop farming is the vogue in major cities around the world. Though considered an innovation in modern time, it has been in practice since ancient times, remember the hanging gardens of Babylon from history classes?

Lagos, a Nigerian megacity can promote the idea in the country for many obvious reasons. Lagos State prides itself as Nigeria’s commercial nerve and innovation hub. That also comes with its challenges- on a daily basis, people troop to Lagos from other parts of the country in search of greener pastures. Consequently, the city’s population continues to swell; concomitantly attracting a surge in unemployment and its consorts: poverty, urban waste and squalor.

Often described as a very energetic city, Lagos is typified by busy marketplaces, traffic hold-ups, the smell of roadside fries, noise and smell of diesel and other forms of electric generators; all upshots of the huge population, half of which may comprise jobless and underemployed persons. So, in spite of its acclaimed dynamism and prosperity, the city’s emissions could be approaching a hazardous range. The air in Lagos needs continuous assuagement to make it safer for residents.

Busy cities across the globe are embracing clean-air principles that suck up harmful emissions from the atmosphere, encourage biodiversity of flora and fauna, and generally contribute to the global quest for environmental sustainability. Lagos, Nigeria’s industrial flagship and megacity can key into some of these moves to safeguard the health of its teeming population.

Creation of green spaces has featured prominently among contemporary efforts at mitigating the effects of greenhouse gas on cities. Therefore, urban farming, which evolved as a solution to the shortage of fresh food in towns as well a means of providing employment for idle residents, is a global trend that Lagos cannot afford to ignore.

An innovative aspect of urban farming which is making a great difference in some Western countries as the technology continues to grow, is rooftop agriculture. A developer can choose to design a rooftop that not only serves for shelter from rain but also as a farmland. This means that a structure which occupies one or more plots of land can, through its rooftop space, provide the same amount of farm space.

This idea may not be applicable to all buildings, they are best planned from the outset and this is where urban new-layouts that are still on the drawing board in diverse parts of the country can borrow a tip. Architects and structural engineers can also bring it up at their confabs this year because the idea is fast gaining traction across the globe for many green reasons.

There are commercial buildings, shopping malls and church structures that take up miles of landmass. Many of them are actually found in Lagos and its environs. Such structures can be maximised for rooftop farming activities that will be of benefit to tenants, church members and many others.

Government can assist unemployed and under-employed residents, who, for food security-reasons are willing to subsist with farming, but are challenged by land space to explore this option.

In Australia, rooftop farms now absorb substantial organic wastes to grow organic foods and fruits. In Japan, rooftops are now used to cultivate grains like soybeans and rice which supply produce to surrounding eateries and to households within the rooftop complex.

In the United States, however, most rooftop gardens grow vegetables like tomatoes and lettuce and some are beginning to incorporate poultries, apiaries (bee farms for honey) and even aquaculture.

To deliver the expected goods, it should be put together in consultation with engineers and other experts who would ensure that the building does not subside because of the pressure from roof top activities, that the right things are put in place so that both aesthetic appeal and profitability are incorporated into the plan. These will include horticulturists, agronomists, architects, town planners and other relevant professionals.

Apart from the provision of fresh fruits, vegetables, honey, poultry products and other food advantages, ongoing experiments overseas have shown that it helps to mitigate urban heat island effect by keeping buildings cool in hot weather. They also help to provide insulation from extreme cold.

The plants absorb the heat from the sun, while the building’s walls remain cool and that would reduce the need for air-conditioning, thereby reducing costs on electricity and the need for generators on hot days where there is power outage. Consequently, there would be reduced emissions and noise pollution.

Moreover, rooftop vegetation will breathe in carbon dioxide accumulated through congestion and greenhouse effects and exhale oxygen to relieve the air. Resultant ripple effects will include a reduction in stress-induced ailments and savings on health costs. So, it can be counted as a noteworthy poverty fighting strategy. The benefits are endless as it is also posited that rooftop farmlands provide further insulation from thunder. They also absorb storm water by delaying and reducing rain runoff from the roof. Some of the water can even be stored for farm irrigation during the dry season. So, for the Government, it is a compelling idea when considering options for reducing the hazards of flooding.

Rooftop agric ventures would help preserve biodiversity as the farms would attract fauna and birds which are fast disappearing from the cities due to structural development and congestion. Eko city can choose to build tourist capital around this ‘modest proposal’ for many good reasons.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]