Better supervision, enforcement needed in capital market — Tahir
In this interview with FEYISAYO POPOOLA, the Dean, Faculty of Management Sciences, Bayero University, Kano, Professor Kabir Tahir, says the lack of lecturers with professional financial certification is affecting the teaching of capital market in universities

How do you think professional certification would affect teachings in school?

The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers organised training and executive conversion for lecturers to become chartered stockbrokers. With the nature of the training we were given, I see the nature of our teachings becoming more impactful because we would blend theories and practicals.

You know students do a lot of research; this would enable us to guide them better on the nature of the work they are doing so that the research can be tailored to be more impactful to the Nigerian capital market. The essence of research is to be able to provide solutions to problems and provide frontiers of knowledge.

We believe that with this certification, we would be able to produce better research that would result in better policy formulation for the capital market, financial system and the economy as a whole.

How did you feel when you were informed about your selection by the CIS?

I felt very excited and even my other colleagues felt the same way because we are teachers and we put students through when they do their research at all levels . When we teach students, we always look for opportunities where we can get a lot of practical knowledge so that we can blend all the theories that we have with the practice.

We feel that through this initiative, we can be able to impart more practical knowledge into our students.

Did you ever see yourself becoming a stockbroker before now?

Yes. I have had the interest but because of the enormous responsibilities we have as lecturers, we don’t really have the luxury of time.

But my own line is in Accounting and Finance; and usually in accounting, you have to do a professional programme to become an expert.

Given that we teach investment and capital market to students, we also need to come into this profession to be better equipped with current and relevant knowledge to pass onto our students.

Lecturers that are not certified and refuse to upgrade themselves will keep teaching the wrong stale things to students and this would not help them because they would then realise after graduation that things are different from what they were taught. Hence, there is a need for lecturers to take up professional programmes to create a synergy between reality and classroom teachings.

So, I have always had that ambition of joining the CIS; it is only now that we have that window for executive conversion that I have decided to make good use of the opportunity.

Do you think the capital market is being treated extensively in universities or can more be done?

For undergraduate level, as it is now, I do not think it is possible for a student to specialise in capital market alone, because as the economy is developing, more specialisations are emerging. So, if you just train someone on a degree in capital market, it would be quite difficult to get a job. We prefer to make students versatile, having the grasps of various professionals.

At the postgraduate level, we can then have someone specialise in the capital market and its operations.

But we should do better in terms of courses in investment analysis, capital market, business finance and other issues.

What do you think each player in the capital market can do better to improve its current state?

The capital market has not done badly, in all honesty, but it also needs to be better. What I see as the major challenge is the issue of financial literacy and financial inclusion. A large percentage of Nigerians do not have the financial knowledge or information about the financial system and how they can be able to leverage the system to create more wealth that would bring about economic growth and development.

So, that issue actually needs to be emphasised. Then there is also the need for better supervisory regulations and enforcement that would bring about more ethics in the operations of the market that would build investors’ confidence because without confidence, one would not expect the financial system as a whole to flourish.

Some measures need to be put in place that would build investors’ confidence. You know, sometimes you find crash in the market and the investors who get their fingers burned would find anything about the capital market appalling. So, that issue of building confidence has to be taken seriously; and it is not just the responsibility of regulators, but also professional associations and stakeholders.

How can lecturers help in the financial inclusion drive?

I would not say the regulators are not doing enough because I know that in the academia, the Central Bank of Nigeria comes to train financial inclusion ambassadors, who will then do a step-down training for the lower level of citizens.

This helps us to begin to catch students young. We can infuse the knowledge of financial inclusion into them so that they can understand the working of the entire financial system before graduation.

I believe if there would be a holistic approach to the matter, and not just regulators handling the issue, there can be a better framework to bring about more effective financial literacy.

Regulators are doing well, but they need to do more, taking it secondary and even primary schools. This will enable students to better appreciate the need to learn about the financial system or personal financial management.

Is there a likelihood of partnerships between regulators and the academia going forward?

Yes, I think so. I strongly feel that in the near future, there is going to be core participation of senior academics in major decision making processes.

I feel that what we need is for the invitation to be extended to us. For example, the CIS invited us, we did not come on our own and because of the communication, a lot of lecturers developed interest in the conversion programme.

So, if we don’t have that kind of initiation at the beginning, it may not be possible, even when the academia is willing to make a tangible contribution.

Take for instance, the CIS executive conversion programme for lecturers, with the calibre of individuals from the academia that are participating in this conversion programme, I believe that we would have better policy formulation that would transform the capital market.

In addition, we can also expect to be among the players in the capital market and do other related stock professional services. Through that, we can immensely contribute our quota to the capital market.

What advice do you have for other lecturers?

We need to key into professional bodies because we need the basic knowledge and the licence. To participate in the capital market, ypu need a licence and this is the gateway to getting a licence.

Without that, you would just begin to read theories of other people over and over without gaining anything tangible.

If you actually want to be a player, you need to get the licence. Without doing this, there is no way you can effectively pass knowledge to students or even participate in the market.

I feel that if we can come out to see that we get memberships of professional bodies, it will afford us the licence to physically participate in the process and make us to understand better the workings of the system and be able to impart better knowledge into students and better guide them in conducting more impactful empirical studies and research at all levels.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]