Positive sentiment over China-US trade deal cools
What shaped the past week?

Global: Much like the previous week, global investor sentiment remained driven by trade talks between powerhouses, U.S. and China, albeit with a positive leaning this week as negotiations appear to yield fruit. The positive sentiment was present at the start of the week, with all key markets closing higher and tech stocks performing particularly well on Wall Street. The optimism continued into Tuesday in the Asian and European regions, whilst U.S. investors tempered their positivity with caution. By midweek however, reports that a trade deal could be delayed until December led to mixed trading, with U.S. stocks closing flat and Asian stocks trading mixed. Meanwhile, European investors cautiously traded their markets higher while awaiting further details on the delay. Signs of progress in the trade negotiations led to a return to strong trading in the U.S., as the S&P 500 closed at a new high, while European markets remained positive. However, Asian markets were mixed as investors remained concerned over the reported delay. Overall, the optimism seen at the start of the week was all but gone at week close, with global markets trading negative on Friday.

Domestic Economy: On Monday, President Buhari signed a bill into law changing the legislation on agreements related to offshore oil production. The new bill alters the 1993 Deep Offshore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Contract Act by adding two new revenue streams for the government. The first is a flat 10% royalty on all projects over 200 meters deep and the other is a 7.5% royalty on frontier and inland basins. The new revenue streams are expected to add an estimated N4.57 trillion to government revenue over the next two years. According to the government, the changes to production sharing contracts (PSCs) ensure the government is generating revenue from the first day of production, rather than waiting long periods to generate revenue through taxation and profit sharing from oil production. Oil majors and other interest groups have raised concerns over these changes to the PSCs, as it would affect the level of investment in offshore oil projects going forward. The nature of the new terms could dampen Nigeria’s attractiveness as an offshore oil investment destination; however, the consequences of the new law remain unclear. In the short-term, the amendment will positively impact the federal government’s oil revenue. However, the long-term attractiveness of Nigeria’s deepwater oil projects for international oil companies would have to be weighed against the possibility of higher costs from these new royalties.

Equities: The Nigeria ASI closed the week in the green, as the market gained 8bps w/w (-16.28% YTD). The Consumer Goods sector (-591bps w/w) was the weakest performer, as losses in UNILEVER (-26.59% w/w) and INTBREW (-25.40% w/w) dragged the sector lower. Conversely, the Banking Sector (+851bps w/w) closed on Friday as the best performer, after gains in GUARANTY (+13.49% w/w), ACCESS (+17.95% w/w) and UBA (+13.79% w/w) lifted the sector. The Industrial Goods Sector (+205bps w/w) closed in the green driven by gains in CCNN (+10.06%) and WAPCO (+500bps w/w). On the other hand, the Oil & Gas Sector (-25bps w/w) closed in the red as volume traded in the sector were marginal this week. Trading volume for the week increased 36.56% w/w, with traded value increasing 13.82% w/w.

Fixed Income: Trading in the fixed income space remained mixed this week, with yields advancing 54bps on average in the T-bills space and moderating 40bps on benchmark securities. Much like last week, market participants continued to react to the recent directives by the CBN, which shut out non-bank domestic investors from accessing securities at OMO auctions. Notably, yields advanced on the 209DTM (advanced 289bps to settle at 13.86%) and the 335DTM (advanced 279bps to settle at 14.93%) bills. Furthermore, demand pressure on the 16.39% FGN JAN 2022 bond dragged its yield lower 74bps w/w to 12.03% and the yield on the FGN 12.75% APR 2023 bond moderated 99bps w/w to 11.85%.

Currency: The Naira depreciated N0.02 w/w at the I&E FX Window to settle at N362.77 and remained unchanged w/w to at N359.00 against the dollar in the parallel market.

What will shape markets in the coming week?

Equity market: With sentiment around banking stocks remaining strong this week, we foresee further investor interest in select names at the start of next week. However, this positive sentiment may not filter into the rest of the market, as other key sectors continue to under-perform.

Fixed Income market: As market participants in the T-bills space continue to react to the OMO directive by the CBN, we expect the market to trade in a negative fashion at the start of next week. Meanwhile, in the bond space we expect a mixed session at the start of the week, as demand appears to be waning in the space.

Currency: We expect the naira to remain largely stable across the various windows of the currency space as the CBN maintains interventions in the FX market.

Focus for the week

ACCESS BANK PLC – 9M profits strengthen despite cost pressures

Loan recoveries and investments support earnings growth. Access Bank recently reported its 9M’19 numbers, displaying double digit growth across all line items following the business combination with the erstwhile Diamond Bank. The bank recorded 37% y/y growth in Gross Earnings to N513.7 billion (Vetiva Estimate: N521.1 billion), buoyed by significant loan recoveries and a 52% YTD rise in Investment securities post merger. The bank has realized c.N33.7 billion from merger synergies, with recoveries accounting for two-thirds of total realized revenue. Likewise, the bank realized a 44% y/y jump in 9M’19 PAT to N90.7 billion (Vetiva Estimate: N107.8 billion) to lift EPS by 28% to N2.79.

Q3’19 Interest Income declines 18% q/q During the 3-month period, ACCESS realized N132.1 billion (Vetiva Estimate: N141.6 billion) in interest income, 18% less than it recorded in Q2’19; largely due to a 43% q/q decline in investment income, occasioned by a 9% reduction in the bank’s treasury bill position during the quarter. Net Interest income declined faster to N55.1 billion (-44% q/q) as interest expense spiked 21% q/q due to a 26% q/q rise in interest expense from customer deposits. Consequently, average Cost of Funds increased by 40bps q/q to 5.2%, on the back of a marginal q/q increase in customer deposits to N4.2 trillion. Over the next six months, we expect income from investments to improve, following the bank’s long position in fixed income securities, evidenced by the 64% q/q increment in their bond portfolio.

Integration and M&A costs affect Cost-to-Income

ACCESS recorded N57.2 billion (Vetiva Estimate: N55.1 billion) from its Noninterest income line in Q3’19, following a q/q return to profitability in net trading and foreign exchange income. The net gain in foreign exchange income offset q/q declines in net fee and other income during the review period to boost Operating income by 12% q/q to N112.2 billion (Vetiva Estimate: N121.6 billion). Meanwhile, ACCESS recorded an 11% q/q rise in Operating expenses to N77.5 billion (Vetiva Estimate: N61.5 billion) due to q/q increments in staff and other operating expenses. On a q/q basis, Cost to-Income ratio increased by 560bps to 67.1%, largely due to integration costs, but moderated by 80bps y/y to 63.1% for 9M’19. We note that the bank’s Cost-to-Income is relatively high when compared to its Tier-I peers, but we expect these costs to moderate in coming months, as integration and M&A costs dissipate.

Whilst reasonable care has been taken in preparing this document to ensure the accuracy of facts stated herein and that the ratings, forecasts, estimates and opinions also contained herein are objective, reasonable and fair, no responsibility or liability is accepted either by Vetiva Capital Management Limited or any of its employees for any error of fact or opinion expressed herein.