Our airports need the latest technology equipment
Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata Jnr. (CFA)

One thing I have observed is that most forward-looking nations have made it a point of duty to modernise their airports, particular the international wing, with the hope of making it some a hub or transit point for global travellers. However, the reverse is the case in Nigeria. Our airports particularly the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, remain a sad tale that might depress a good number of passengers returning or visiting the country.

This piece therefore is a combination of pent-up frustration and anger at a system that continues to embarrass its people, all in the name of trying to apprehend criminals.

Nigerian airports, not just the international wing, are backward, both in terms of operations and personnel behaviour.

This piece is not designed to compare apples with oranges. My intention is not to try to draw comparison per se, but any frequent flyer can attest to the fact that the lines between airport operations and technology are disappearing.

Today, some airports have reduced the number of personnel attending to customers such that the ones available are just there to guide customers, who have no choice but to use the machines available; to check themselves into flights; print boarding passes and luggage tags.

This is 2019 and the world has moved on. But the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria has elected to continue to live in the Stone Age, where life was brutish and short.

The majority of Nigerians are hardworking people but what beats my imagination is the docility I see when being treated like slaves in their own country and all they do is to beg, even, when they have done nothing wrong.

I’m writing this to ask critical questions about our airport operations and to announce that I was booked by the NDLEA officials, who added my details, to their database because I dared to ask why they had to search the luggage of passengers publicly?

In Nigeria, citizens are often treated like prisoners by state security agents. If you are not a ‘big man or woman’, you have no right to ask questions or you will be dealt with and like some of them will say, ‘nothing go happen’.

My senior colleague and immediate past President of Nigeria Internet Registration Association (NiRA), Rev Sunday Folayan, is one guy, who leverages social media to analyze our national budget annually. You do not need a special agency to alert you that corruption in Nigeria stinks; just follow his posts and analyses, using ‘common sense’ and you would weep, for this country.

In one of his analyses in the aviation sector for the 2020 budget, he said based on several factors, the budgeted amount of N4,694,131,965 for the establishment of a national carrier ongoing (ERGP30142403) and N304,000,000 consultancy for the establishment of national carrier ongoing (ERGP31144149) would likely go to waste because of incompetence and corruption. I share his sentiment. The Nigerian government should just focus on policies and not try to use the taxpayer’s money to get into the space that the private sector ordinarily plays in.

Dear Mr President, can you please channel these funds into ensuring that we have airports that we can be proud of, not just for beautiful terminal buildings, but also equipment, operations and personnel behaviour. South-East Asian countries facing hard drug problem are dealing with the challenges without harassing airport users unnecessarily.

A set of equipment that several modern airports have installed is the one built by an engineering company that allows for integration with the world’s leading manufacturers of checkpoint Xray and CT machines and can be configured for local or remote screening.

We need to stop joking as a nation. If FAAN cannot deliver a modern, functional airport, then privatise the airports. Our airports need the latest high and low technology equipment that will assist the NDLEA and other agencies and officials to deliver professional services to citizens, whom they should be serving.

I had a nasty experience at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, while returning from Addis Ababa, where I attended the 4th edition of AfriLabs Annual Gathering, which is undoubtedly the largest gathering of innovation stakeholders in Africa. By the way, Bole International Airport is one that will make every Ethiopian proud even though they have an estimated GDP of $80bn while Nigeria has a GDP of about $350bn, our international airports do not evoke any form of pride.

On arrival, as I was approaching the exit door, they summoned me to that familiar long, stainless steel ‘butcher’ table, where I was asked to submit my bags for physical checks. The first question the NDLEA official asked me was where I was coming from? I tried to find out how that was related to their job as I had just gone past immigration and settled that.

As in many cases in Nigeria, it was concluded that I was stubborn and therefore must be treated as a drug suspect. An NDLEA officer mandated two officers to take me into the scanning room, as I had now become a prime suspect. I laughed out loud, feeling sad for a nation seeking to attract investments. No wonder Ghana is now teaching us how to attract investors.

Anyway, as a sheep heading for the slaughter house, I followed them to the scanning room and was subjected to the same manual checking of my luggage, but the guy had no gloves on. I asked him why people’s bags were being checked without gloves on; and obviously there was no response because it did not seem that was part of their operational process.

After he was done, he asked me to leave my luggage and go into a separate room, for body scanning. He pointed to the CCTV camera that would show me if anybody tampered with my luggage. I smiled and told him that I would never go to any other room without my luggage. He did not know that he was having a conversation with a techie, who knows that the CCTV footage could be deleted in segments or completely.

I carried my luggage and moved into the scanning room and when he finished scanning, he declared that ‘the guy is clean’. Well, I replied the officer that of course I was clean; that I work as a journalist and if asking questions had made me a suspect, then it would be sad what we had degenerated into as a country.

Put simply, the NDLEA officials at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport are embarrassing Nigerians returning to the country by wanting to search them manually. Yes, a few people might be drug peddlers, but picking out people returning to their country randomly for searching is simply backward and totally unacceptable in this age of technology.

The big question is: How are other airports apprehending criminals? Dear NDLEA, FAAN and all the numerous agencies that subject Nigerians to various types of searches, it is unacceptable to continue to subject Nigerians to all types of humiliating searches, trying to fish out criminals. This is 2019 and we need to step up our game and deliver service to airport users.

CFA is the founder of CFAmedia.ng, a business and innovation platform.