Cooking gas skids in fuel stations dangerous – NALPGAM
’Femi Asu

The Nigerian Association of Liquefied Petroleum Gas Marketers has expressed concern over the installation of gas skids in fuel stations across the country.

NALPGAM described the siting of gas skids in petrol filling stations as dangerous and contrary to global standards for the LPG marketing.

The association stated this at the end of its executive council meeting on Tuesday in Lagos.

It commended the Federal Government for the removal of Value Added Tax on domestic LPG, saying the development had led to a decline in prices and to deepen the LPG usage in the country.

The Executive Secretary, NALPGAM, Mr Bassey Essien, appealed to the federal and state governments to intervene and bring an end to the practice of siting gas skids in filling stations.

He said, “We wish to draw the attention of the federal and state governments to the increasingly indiscriminate deployment of the LPG skids at petrol stations and retail outlets without taking into consideration the risk element in this.

“We align our association’s position with all relevant agencies, particularly the Department of Petroleum Resources, in their bid to curb this increasing menace.”

Essien said the DPR had given petrol stations with gas skids up to December 2020 to dismantle the skids or use them to dispense auto gas.

According to him, the association is doing so much to complement government’s efforts in deepening the LPG consumption in the country.

“We are asking the government to create an enabling environment for players in the industry, so that we can actually go further to encourage more usage of the LPG by households in the country,” Essien said.

According to the association, the number of households that have embraced the LPG has risen significantly as against what it was five years ago.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]