NDPHC completes electrification projects in 2000 Ondo communities
Peter Dada, Akure

The Niger Delta Power Holding Company Limited says it has completed electrification projects in about 2000 communities in Ondo South Senatorial District of Ondo State, which had been without electricity for over 10 years.

Thousands of communities in the six local government areas of the district were said to have been disconnected from the national grid for over a decade, following their alleged indebtedness to the Benin Electricity Distribution Company.

Speaking with journalists in Akure, the Ondo State capital, the Executive Director of Engineering and Technical Services of the NDPHC, Ife Oyedele, said the company had begun pre-inauguration test of the electricity projects in the area after years of disconnection from the national grid.

He expressed optimism that the people of the affected communities would have power supply soon because the electrification projects had been completed, adding that the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, would inaugurate the projects.

He said, “Right now, what we are doing is pre-inauguration test. Our work is to restore power supply. In a few weeks, the people in the area will have electricity and will be reconnected to the national grid.”

Oyedele also said the ongoing electricity projects in the senatorial district were being carried out by the Federal Government and not the state or local governments.

“These projects were conceived by the Vice President, designed by the Niger Delta Power Holding Company and awarded to contractors that had passed the test and it has nothing to do with any individual.

“It is purely the Federal Government’s sponsored projects and handled by the Niger Delta Power Holding Limited. It has nothing to do with politics; it is about development; it is about the provision of infrastructure; it has nothing to do with any state or local government,” he stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]