Transactions on EcobankPay hit N2bn
’Femi Asu

Ecobank Nigeria says over 100,000 merchants have been onboarded on the EcobankPay platform with transaction value reaching N2bn.

EcobankPay, according to a statement, offers customers a multi-channel payment experience and is used by all businesses from small, informal micro merchants to large corporates as well as governments.

“It enables them to offer easy and convenient payment options to their customers in-store or online,” it said.

The Executive Director, Commercial Banking, Ecobank Nigeria, Carol Oyedeji, said she was impressed with the level of acceptance of EcobankPay service by Nigerians.

She noted that the digital product was introduced into the financial landscape to enhance payment and create ease and convenience of transactions.

She said, “The performance of EcobankPay underscores the choice of Ecobank in bringing digital payment solutions for safe, reliable and convenient transactions to both customers and non- customers of the bank.

“The EcobankPay channel offers a distinct advantage of supporting the three main payment schemes – Masterpass, mVisa and mCash, thereby broadening acceptability regardless of which bank a client makes payment from. The QR Code is much cheaper than having a point of sale terminal and credit to the merchant is instant.”

The Managing Director, Ecobank Nigeria, Patrick Akinwuntan, said, “We are determined to make EcobankPay the choice for instant digital payment in Nigeria. This payment solution was introduced by Ecobank to create payment convenience for goods and services and also to support the growth of businesses especially SMEs.

“Ecobank is impressed with the significant progress made on EcobankPay transactions, as it is gradually becoming a lifestyle payment for all. The initiative is to deepen financial inclusion in the communities and specifically aid business transactions between merchants and clients by eliminating risk of payment rejection.”

According to him, the bank has so far set up EcobankPay Zones in over 50 locations in different parts of the country.

“These are digital hubs enabling businesses within a location adopt Ecobank’s wide range of digital products for ease of payments for goods and services. The payment options at the zones include EcobankPay, Xpress points, Automated Teller Machines and Point of Sale terminals,” Akinwuntan added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]