11 Plc rewards customers with cars, others
’Femi Asu

11 Plc, formerly Mobil Oil Nigeria Plc, has rewarded some of its customers with various gifts, including cars, televisions and generating sets.

The company gave out the gifts during the grand finale of its ‘Mobil Peel and Win 2.0’ marketing promotion on Tuesday in Lagos.

It said, “The promo campaign was designed to appreciate loyal customers across the six geopolitical zones and draw attention to the superior quality that Mobil Super 1000 (XHP) and Mobil Super 2000 lubricant, two of 11 Plc’s major lubricants, have delivered to Nigerians over the years.”

The Managing Director, 11 Plc, Mr Adetunji Oyebanji, said, “Through this campaign, our customers have restated their commitment to the high-quality products that we offer them. We are proud of the success of the campaign as it has offered us an opportunity to reward our growing number of customers; hopefully we will sustain this campaign in the coming years.”

Two customers, Adewole Adeboboye and Oduwale Bashiru, won a brand-new car each, while Kayode Adebayo and Samsudeen Adesina got a tricycle and a motorcycle respectively.

Bola Ilori won a 40-inch TV set; Adebisi Gbenga, generator; Mojisola Oluwatoyin and Abogunrin Sunday, smartphones; and Aminu Abdulwasim received a cash prize.

According to a statement, in the other promotions across the country, the Mobil Super Peel and Win 2.0 produced winners from Kano, Abuja, Ibadan and Benin who carted away various gift items including motorcycles, tricycles, 40-inch TV sets, smartphones and cash prizes.

In his welcome address, the Manager, Lubricant Sales and Marketing, 11 Plc, Mr Umesh Malik, said, “We have spared no effort at delivering quality products that are based on research and the needs of the market.”

He added, “The Mobil ‘Peel and Win’ promotion is our way of rewarding those end-users that are loyal to the Mobil brand – end-users who have truly shown their loyalty to the brand.”

According to him, these categories of end-users include car owners, motorcycle and tricycle owners/riders, generator operators/owners, auto-repairers and mechanics.

Malik said the company remained committed to maintaining high standards of integrity, adherence to safety, health and environmental standards in its business processes.

“The company is a leader in the promotion and sharing of best practices in the downstream sector of Nigeria’s oil and gas industry,” he added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]