Nigerians, 18 others for Anzisha Prize finals
Ife Ogunfuwa

Two Nigerian entrepreneurs, Abdulwaheed Alayande, who is the founder of TREP LABS and Emmanuel Okon, the founder of Vmedkit, a health company have been named among the 20 young African entrepreneurs Anzisha Prize finalists.

A statement on Wednesday described the Anzisha Prize as an African Leadership Academy and Mastercard Foundation partnership, dedicated to identifying, supporting and celebrating young African entrepreneurs between the ages of 15 to 22 on the continent.

The organisers said over 500 applicants sent in entries from remote and fragile communities, widening the selection pool for the top 20 and showcasing their business acumen with enterprises that provide solutions to some of the continent’s biggest problems.

Some of the finalists for the Anzisha Prize are Asia Saeed, 20 from Somalia; Godiragetse Mogajane, 21 from South Africa; Marvellous Nyongoro, 22 from Zimbabwe; Velache Coker, 19 from Sierra Leone; Emmanuel Agyei, 22 from Ghana; Jaritou Jallow, 21, Gambia; Caleb Annobil, 21, Ghana; Christian Kassahun, 21 from Ethiopia; and Mamadjang Jallow, 20 from Gambia.

Other finalists are Saudah Birungi, 22, Uganda; Olipah Chomba, 22, Zambia; Osvaldo Mokouma, 19, Republic of Congo; Segbe Accrombessi, 22, Benin; Balbina Gulam, 21, Tanzania; Catherine Nalukwago, 22, Uganda; Cecil Chikezie, 21, Kenya; Raghda Medhat, 22, Egypt; and Yannick Kimanuka, 21, DRC.

“This year, we’re particularly excited about the new format. We’ve created a tailored experience that will allow people to explore the Anzisha movement in its entire entirety,” Anzisha Programme Manager, Melissa Mbazo, said. “From start to finish, the day will look at shaping the future of entrepreneurship on the continent and young entrepreneurs will be at the helm, steering the conversations.”

While the candidates are from various sectors, it said agricultural businesses submitted the highest number of applications this year.

According to the organisers, for the first time, finalists from The Gambia, Democratic Republic of Congo, and Somalia have been chosen as part of the 2019 cohort.

The statement said the top 20 would gather in Johannesburg for a 12-day accelerator boot camp where they would be coached by local and global experts.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]