Economist tasks Buhari’s new advisers on foreign loans
Sunday Aborisade, Abuja

A renowned economist and a former Vice-President of the African Development Bank, Dr Bisi Ogunjobi, has challenged the Prof Doyin Salami-led Economic Advisory Council to ensure a balance between the nation’s foreign loans and project implementation.

Ogunjobi, a Fellow of the Nigerian Economic Society, gave the challenge in an interview with our correspondent on Tuesday at the closing ceremony of the 60th Annual Conference of the NES in Abuja.

He stressed the need to address the administrative and technical capacity of civil servants in terms of project implementation at all levels of government.

He said the newly constituted EAC and members of the Nigerian Economic Society must take the lead in the quest to fill the yearning gap as governments at both the federal and state levels require alternative policy options for effective delivery on their governance mandate for the benefit of the common man.

Ogunjobi said, “At this critical time in the political and economic history of our country, the advice and contributions of the Nigerian Economic Society to proffering solutions to the myriad of challenges facing the countrycannot be underestimated.

“In this connection, one cannot but lament the near absence of Economic Think Tank in Nigeria today either in our universities or the private sector.

“As you all know, think tanks play a fundamental role in shaping policy agendas.

“They do so by mobilising expertise and by formulating alternative policy choices, solidly based on the analysis of evidence, that offer a chance of better outcomes if adopted.”

He said the new economic advisers should tackle issues relating to the nexus between the country’s external debt and project implementation.

He said, “As of 31st March 2019, according to data from the Debt Management Office, Nigeria’s external debt stood at $25.6bn out of which 56 per cent or $14.44bn is from multilateral and bilateral lenders.

“Bearing in mind that the typical disbursement ratio of such loans hovers around 30 per cent, we have about $10bn yet to be disbursed thereby accruing interest.

“The key challenge for these undisbursed loans is lack of implementation capacity both administrative and technical at all levels.

“There is thus a need for the government to focus more on enhancing the overall project implementation and management capacity.

“The benefits of such actions are multifaceted. Indeed, it’s a win-win situation for all the stakeholders.”

Ogunjobi said when that was achieved, the resources disbursed would augment and complement the budget while contracts would be awarded and jobs created.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]