NPA pensioners lament crisis, infighting among members
Anna Okon

Pensioners under the aegis of the Nigerian Ports Authority Pensioners Welfare Association have decried the level of crisis and infighting among their members.

The association added that the situation had inhibited proper calculation of members’ retirement benefits and severance package.

Our correspondent had gathered from an independent source that the association was split into factions with each faction promoting a different agenda.

The association’ President, Mr Charles Binitie, confirmed this when he said that the issue had lingered for 10 years.

Binitie urged the Federal Government to review pension and allowance every five years as stipulated in the constitution.

He recalled that in 2008, the government approached the National Salaries, Income and Wages Commission to review the fringe benefits of in-serving employees by about 400 per cent.

Another review was carried out in 2017 and adjusted in 2018, to the exclusion of pensioners who were unilaterally given three per cent pension increment in 2016.

He said the three per cent could not be compared to the 33 per cent general pension increment approved by former President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration which was the last pension review in the public service.

years or together with any Federal Civil Service salary reviews.

made in 2018 respectively, should have been done to pensions for pensioners based

The NPA in reaction to the agitation of the pensioners had explained that they were members of staff of the agency who were disengaged in 2008, following the 2006 port concession and who in 2013, were paid severance benefits in full to the tune of N770.4m.

In a statement, the Assistant General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications, NPA, Ibrahim Nasiru, noted that the disengaged employees were not part of the Defined Pension Scheme which effectively ended on July 3, 2007.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]