How to do credit card balance transfer
Transferring high-interest credit card debt to a card with a lower (or zero per cent) interest rate can save you time and money while you repay the debt.

Here is a step-by-step process from thebalance.com on how to do a credit card balance transfer

Step 1: Review your credit card debt

First, evaluate approaches for your credit card debt situation. Will you transfer the balance of only one card, or will you consolidate debt from multiple high-interest cards onto one card? Do you have a target date in mind for being debt free? Review your current annual percentage rate and decide how much you are going to transfer to another card. This information will make choosing the best balance transfer card easier.

A balance transfer is best when you can move debt from a high-interest card to a lower-interest card. However, keep your credit utilisation ratio (the amount of your debt compared to your available credit) low.

Ensure your existing credit card accounts and credit history are in good standing before taking action. Most balance transfer cards require a good to excellent credit score. For FICO scores, “good” is 670+.

Step 2: Will you transfer debt to an existing or new credit card?

You have two balance transfer options: Open a new credit card with a limited-time zero per cent APR, or transfer a card’s balance to a lower-interest-rate card you already have.

The first option will save you the most money on interest. For the second option, determine whether your existing lower-interest card can support the transfer without getting maxed out. If not, you will need to either request a credit limit increase or decide whether to apply for a new card.

To transfer debt to a card you own, skip to step five, below.

Step 3: Review balance transfer card offer terms

Many balance transfer card offers are available, so focus on cards that fit your financial needs. Pay close attention to the following terms:

Length of zero-interest deal – Most range between 12 and 21 months, but watch for promotions spanning longer periods, which give extra time for transferred debt reduction and cutting the amount you need to pay monthly.

Balance transfer fee – Some cards do not charge a balance transfer fee, but most cards do, typically three to five per cent of the transfer amount, or $5-10, whichever is greater. Seek low-fee cards, and figure out each card’s fees.

To calculate potential balance transfer fees, follow this formula. Total amount you want to transfer x balance transfer fee amount (percentage written as a decimal) = total fee. For example: N2,500 transfer x 0.03 (three per cent fee) = N75 fee.

Transfer deadlines – To qualify for the introductory APR deal or discount on any transfer fee, a quick balance transfer may be necessary. To enjoy the entire interest-free period, initiate balance transfers right away.

Credit score requirements – If the card you want requires excellent credit, but your credit score falls in the “fair” range, your application probably will not be approved. If approved, your credit limit may be too low for your balance transfer goals. Focus on cards compatible with your credit profile.

Step 4: Analyse your top picks

Compare cards by calculating how much you will pay monthly to clear the transferred balance before the promotional APR period ends:

Take the total amount of debt you will transfer to the card and add the balance-transfer fee amount to it. This is the total balance transfer cost.

Example: N5,000 debt + N150 fee = N5,150 balance transfer total cost.

Then, divide the total balance transfer cost by the zero per cent balance transfer APR offer length in months. That gives you the minimum amount you will need to pay each month to eliminate the transferred debt interest-free.

Example: N5,150 / 12 months = N429.16 minimum monthly payment

If the minimum monthly payment is too high for your budget, find another card with a longer introductory APR offer, to spread out and reduce the monthly payment.

If you do not pay down the balance on time, you will pay the standard balance transfer interest rate on the remaining balance.

Step 5: Apply for the new card

This is the easiest part. An online credit card application only requires a few clicks. You will need your social security number, address, employment, income information, and perhaps credit-related history for identity verification. Not approved immediately? Do not sweat it. The issuing bank may just need more time. Wait for mailed information before applying for another card.

Step 6: Gather information

Get ready for the balance transfer to your new card. If you are transferring debt from multiple accounts, you will need to collect details for each account:

The account number for each account you are transferring debt from

The exact amount(s) of debt you will be transferring to the new card

Step 7: Request a balance transfer

Request a balance transfer online or by phone. Start the process by contacting your new card’s customer service department and tell them you would like to start a balance transfer, and share the information from Step 6.

The new card issuer will contact your old card’s issuer and move the balance amount you specified. Be patient. The transfer process may take anywhere from a few business days to a few weeks for new card accounts.

If you are consolidating debt from multiple cards, repeat this step for each transfer balance, prioritising the transfers from cards with the highest interest rates.

Step 8: Make a plan to pay down the transferred debt

You’re using a zero per cent APR card to cut interest costs and get rid of debt, so if you do not pay down your balance transfer before the introductory rate offer ends, the cost-saving value of the transfer may be lost.

Tips to keep you on track with balance transfer repayment:

Create or update your budget: Ensure your monthly budget includes the minimum payment needed to pay off the balance on time. Track your spending: Build a custom spreadsheet wizard, use credit and debit accounts offer spending analysis, or download apps like Mint or Wally. Reduce or eliminate extra expenses: Dedicate dollars to debt repayment by cutting unnecessary costs. Trim here and there and the dollars add up. Paid off your debt? Still, spend cautiously: After paying off your balance transfer card, continue budgeting and tracking your spending to avoid future debt.