IST seeks to cover all financial matters
Feyisayo Popoola

The Investments and Securities Tribunal says it is seeking the expansion of its jurisdiction to encompass adjudication of disputes arising from all transactions in the financial services sector of the economy.

The Chairman, IST, Mr Isiaka Idoko, while speaking at the opening of the 2019/2020 legal year of the tribunal in Lagos on Monday, said the expansion of its jurisdiction would engender speedy resolution of disputes in the financial services sector, away from the usual delay inherent in the traditional court system.

He said over the years, the tribunal had continued to evolve a new and unique jurisprudence in the capital market through its long line of well-thought out judgments and rulings.

According to him, it has become necessary to ensure that the relevance of the IST is not limited to the capital market alone.

Idoko stated that the past legal year saw the tribunal work tirelessly to clear its case docket, which had been clogged with a myriad of cases totalling 54, which accumulated during the period of inactivity between 2015 and 2017 when it was not constituted.

He said, “These exclude over 60 cases that have been filed since this present tribunal commenced sitting in October 2017. Over 70 judgments have been delivered in keenly contested cases across the zones within the statutorily prescribed time of three months, from the date of commencement of hearing.”

According to him, the call for the enhancement of the jurisdiction of the IST will also help to relieve the pressure on general/regular courts.

Idoko appealed to stakeholders to support the needed advocacy required to make the desire for an enlarged jurisdiction of the tribunal to encompass the entire financial services sector a reality.

He noted that like all specialised courts, the expertise of judges and lawyers in the IST would help in reaching well-informed decisions and engender confidence among investors, which he said was the key motivation for investment in the capital market.

The Deputy Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Capital Market, Mr Anayo Edwin, said upon the inauguration of the committee, the IST’s request for the expansion of its jurisdiction to cover other financial sector-related cases and more funding would be considered.

Edwin urged the tribunal to achieve sustainable growth in the financial sector through harmonious and investment-friendly capital market,

He said this could only be achieved through the manifestation of core values of fairness, integrity, efficiency, professionalism and speedy dispensation of justice.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]