NECA, MAN laud FG’s economic advisory council
Anna Okon

The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association and the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria have commended President Muhammadu Buhari on the recent formation of his Economic Advisory Council.

The associations added that the move was both timely and commendable.

The Director General, NECA, Mr Timothy Olawale, in a statement on Tuesday, noted that the composition of the council was very robust, with seasoned professionals who were experts in areas such as fiscal policy, monetary, industrial policy, trade and energy economics.

Olawale said, “In a time like this, the country needs to fight head-on the ills of poverty, unemployment and achieve significant economic growth. As a nation, we have never been short of ideas or policies. The crux is necessary reforms and implementations of the policies in the country, especially in creating an enabling environment for businesses to thrive and contribute their quota to national development through job creation and others.”

According to the NECA boss, with the council reporting directly to the President, this will allow them (the council) to focus on execution and achievement of targets set by the Presidency.

He, however, pointed out that in previous administrations, the EAC of this type usually had consultations regularly with the Organised Private Sector in Nigeria for sector-related issues, adding, “We will implore this council to embrace the consultative fellowship in achieving the desired goal of economic development.”

On his part, the Director General, MAN, Mr Segun Ajayi-Kadir, described the move as a clear demonstration of the determination of the President to re-energise the management of the economy in his second term in office.

He added that Nigerians, and indeed the private sector were highly desirous of an effective and knowledge-driven team that would lead on the economic front.

He stated, “The beauty of this team, apart from the members’ pedigree, is its composition of private sector citizens who we believe will operate independently and effectively.

The team we believe will not be shackled with the bureaucracy of government and hopefully the political interference and correctness of our clime. They are more likely to be receptive to a wide range of opinions and innovations, even if deferring from the norm.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]