Leasing: FG to help domestic airlines against blacklisting
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

The Federal Government has commenced a diplomatic process to assist Nigerian airlines that may have been unofficially blacklisted from leasing aircraft from airlines across the world.

The PUNCH gathered that the Ministry of Aviation had established diplomatic discussions with their counterparts in other countries in Europe and America with the aim of resolving the issue.

Nigerian airlines are said to be finding it difficult to lease aircraft from Europe, America and other continents following unofficial blacklist over some challenges in the industry.

In the last few months, major leasing companies are said to have blacklisted Nigerian airlines, leaving them with no option than to buy aircraft outright.

Operators had stated that the development had contributed to the depletion of commercial aircraft in the country.

Under the principles of Cape Town Convention which Nigeria is a signatory to, airlines are allowed to lease aircraft for use under some agreement.

Leasing companies are reportedly concerned about funding issues, infrastructure deficit and security challenges, which Nigerian airlines are grappling with.

The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Air Peace, Mr Allen Onyema, recently stated that the airline had in the past lost the chance to lease some aircraft due to the blacklist.

Operators said the blacklist had also affected insurance and cost of aircraft spare parts as suppliers had started to increase their cost because they considered Nigeria as a high risk country.

Onyema stated that airlines, especially Nigerian carriers, would need aircraft leasing to survive.

An industry analyst, who spoke on condition of anonymity, however, stated that beyond funding and infrastructure challenges, some domestic airlines breached leasing contracts.

“All airlines lease planes, but if you fulfil the terms, you can go ahead until you can buy your own but you must abide by the terms. But when you default, even if they don’t announce that they are blacklisting you, when you approach them, they can turn you down. Unfortunately, the news can spread and nobody will attend to the lessor again. It is the attitude of a few that is affecting others,” the source said.

“Some operators lease planes and default, not abiding by the terms of the agreement. Some are even ready to go to court when they have defaulted,” he added.

The General Manager, Public Relations, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, Mr Sam Adurogboye, said the issue had been on the table for some time and was optimistic that it would be resolved.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]