Coscharis takes first BMW X7 to Banana Island
Rasheed Bisiriyu

Coscharis Motors Nigeria Plc, the franchise owner of BMW in Nigeria, is set to unveil the first BMW X7, the biggest and most luxurious sport utility vehicle.

The premium automobile dealer/assembler has chosen the serene highbrow Banana Island in Lagos to reveal the latest model of the BMW brand, which it describes as the pinnacle of BMW’s X Sport Activity Vehicle line-up.

It says the decision to make the unveiling coincide with this year’s Banana Island Cultural Festival holding on September 28 was deliberate, especially with quality of exhibitors and visitors expected at the elegant event.

“It is a statement of the luxury class at this year’s Banana Island Festival,” says the auto firm in a report announcing the participation of Cosharis Motors at the event.

It is a retro-futuristic stunner

The General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Coscharis Group, Abiona Babarinde, says the objective is to strategically offer customers and prospects an opportunity to see and feel the all-new BMW X7 within their home and work context.

“The new 2019 BMW X7 becomes the second BMW model to be launched at the Banana Island Cultural Festival. The very first was the BMW 5 series in 2017,” he added.

According him, the new BMW 7 series will be added to the auto firm’s new avenue of reaching its target buyers, the super rich.

The BMW Brand Manager for Coscharis Motors, Cletus Aregbeshola, also notes that BMW X7 builds on the class leading comfort, handling, safety and technology of all the previous BMW X SAV model lines that have been produced at Plant Spartanburg since 1999.

He says, “BMW’s latest premium Sports Activity Vehicle is designed to reflect the personality and requirements of the owner. It not only adds a new top model to the X family, but also defines a progressive approach to luxury for the BMW brand.”

The X7 offers standard three row seating for seven people with optional second-row captain’s chairs offering a more exclusive seating arrangement for six.

Its standard two-axle air suspension, 21-inch alloy wheels and advanced driver assistance systems ensure that the new BMW X7 lives up to expectations of style, driver engagement, passenger comfort and all-weather and all-terrain capability.

An online automobile journal/reviewer, Autoblog says the X7 is the biggest luxury BMW on sale and this can be seen on the outside and experienced inside.

It says, “Space on the second row is palatial, while adults can even fit quite comfortably in the third row of the seats. They can even have their own climate controls, which is a feature we do not recall seeing before.

“The rear seats feature power-operated slide and recline, which is definitely fancy, but it takes considerably longer to slide the second-row seats forward for third-row access than in three-row vehicles with manually-operated seats.”

Interior and technology

Many reviewers say the interior quality of the X7 is exceptional.

The new BMW offers high-tech features that will impress buyers (and their kids), says MotorTrend in its review of the vehicle.

Technology also dominates the vehicle, Autoblog notes, adding this shows in its superb performance. Specifically, its large central display is controlled by touch, voice commands and the iDrive centre console knob with accompanying capacitive menu buttons.

“Being a wizard would make it easier to operate this latest version of iDrive, as it can certainly overwhelm and isn’t as initially intuitive as Mercedes’ new MBUX or Porsche’s latest touchscreen setup,” Autoblog states.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]