IPPIS: Oil workers threaten strike over salary suspension
Anna Okon

Oil and gas workers under the aegis of the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers and Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria have threatened to withdraw their service over a recent directive by the Accountant General of the Federation that salaries of workers who are not enrolled on the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System be stopped by October.

The association stated this on Tuesday in a letter titled, ‘Re-October Deadline for the Enrolment of Ministries, Department and Agencies that are currently not on the Integrated Personnel and Payroll and Information System.’

In the letter which was jointly signed by the General Secretary, PENGASSAN and the General Secretary, NUPENG, the association said that oil and gas workers had earlier frowned at the circular on IPPIS issued in September 2018.

This according to NUPENGASSAN, led to a series of meetings to proffer ways of addressing the issue.

The letter read in part, “At the end of those meetings, a technical committee was set up by the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment to assess the unions’ concerns regarding the implementation of lPPlS.”

The association noted that the committee set up to assess the unions’ concerns regarding the IPPIS was yet to meet but the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation had gone ahead to release a circular threatening to stop salaries of its members by October.

NUPENGASSAN explained that it was not against the government’s policy regarding lPPlS, but drew attention to duplication of functions in the circulars.

It stated, “We wish refer to the existence of Government lntegrated Financial

Management lnformation System platform which is run by the Central Bank of Nigeria already serving a similar purpose and the Presidential lnitiative on Continuous Audit, whose responsibility is to audit the nominal and payroll of agencies as recently emphasised by the Minister of Finance.”

It added, “Based on the above observation of contradiction and repetition of roles from the recent circular, we have therefore directed our members in these affected regulatory Agencies (NNRA, PTl, DPR, NCDMB, PPPRA, PTDF and PEF) not to provide any information concerning (our members) personnel payment and allowances to the Accountant-General’s Office for the purpose of lPPIS, until the technical committee meets.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]