What to look for in a rental property
Abiodun Doherty

When you are renting a property, there are certain things that you should pay attention to. Sometimes renting could be harder than buying a property because of some of the pressures that renters face.

There seems to be an intense competition for good and affordable rental properties. Renters who have made several unsuccessful attempts to rent a property could become desperate. When you are desperate if you do not have a clear process of deciding prior to that time, you are likely to make a mistake.

A mistake made when you rent a property could put pressure on you to move out it as soon as you can. Each time you rent, there are costs that you incur and simply must incur again if you change houses frequently.

If you own a property that you don’t like, you can sell it and make some money. However, considering the competition for good rental properties, if you hastily lease the wrong property you might be forced to keep the lease until its expiration unless you are prepared to bear the cost of breaking your lease. It is better to think carefully and choose wisely when it comes to rental properties.

Deciding what is important to you based on your season in life, your commitment and the resources available to you should be your starting point. One of the critical factors to consider is your preferred location. Where do you want to live and what are the features of the area that will likely make it an ideal place for you and your family.

Proximity to the primary areas of your activities should be a major factor in your consideration. Is it close to your work place? Is it close to your children’s school? Do you prefer somewhere that has access to several public transport routes? Is it close to your place of worship or shopping malls or other amenities? These are questions that you need to answer before you rent the property.

It is important for you to evaluate or research the environment and not just the building. The proximity of the property to certain businesses or organisations may be a disadvantage rather a advantage.

Some environment suffer from air pollution as a result of the presence of a company in the community. The presence of a pub, incinerator, hospital, church or other places of worship could be a pain or a blessing.

These things, if overlooked ,could be what will sabotage your enjoyment of the property after you have moved into it.

There are some less obvious challenges that you could face if you rent a property in the wrong location. It is always a good part of due diligence for you to ask someone living in the area and who can give you their unbiased opinion of the property.

This is not an opinion that the property owner or property manager would make available to you. For instance, there are areas whose topography makes them susceptible to flooding during the rainy seasons. These houses are often let out during the dry seasons to unsuspecting renters.

Another factor that you should consider is the issue of security and community spirit in the neighbourhood. These two are often connected. A neighbourhood that has property owners and tenants engaging with themselves in an harmonious relationship will often enjoy a good security arrangement. They will find it easier to organise themselves and also improve the livability of their neighbourhood. You definitely would not like to live in a beautiful home that you find difficult to access at night because the area is unsafe.

A good rental property will usually give regard to at least two major issues : lighting and space. Good designs allow for space in critical areas such as kitchen and surrounding areas.

It is repelling to enter a building and discover that you need the light bulb on before you can move around. You should avoid buildings that are designed in such a way that there is hardly any room for parking except on the street.

In addition, take the time to look at the state of repairs of the property and point out anything that is in need of repairs or replacement before you rent the premises. There are landlords and agents that you will find difficult to track and engage with regarding any repairs of the property once the rent has been paid.

Painting, electrical wiring, and appliances are often neglected by many until after they have moved into the property.

Get a firm commitment from the agent or the property owner as to who should pay for any items that need repairs. Ensure that there are no major repairs unattended to before you move into the property. Finally, please confirm that there are no unpaid utility bills.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]