Ministers’ll render first performance report in December – Osinbajo
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo on Monday declared that all the ministers appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari would render their first performance report to the Presidency in December.

Osinbajo, who declared this in Abuja at the Annual National Management Conference of the Nigerian Institute of Management, said the President had developed specific mandates for each ministry.

He said, “The presidential policy preceded the inauguration of this government. The President developed a list of specific mandates for each ministry. Each of those mandates has a clearly spelt out action points.

“Some of those mandates are about eight or seven points. The ministers are expected to render their first report of performance in December.”

The Vice-President told delegates at the management conference that the initiative was aimed at ascertaining the level of compliance by ministers with respect to the mandates given them by the President.

“It is a more measurable way of determining whether ministers are doing what they are meant to do and whether ministries are doing what is expected,” he stated.

Osinbajo also spoke on power issues in Nigeria and how the government was working to address the challenges in the sector through the establishment of independent power systems in selected markets and higher institutions across the country.

He said, “We believe we can resolve a lot of the power problems by decentralising power production, generation and distribution, such that it is not just the Discos and the currently privatised Gencos that produce power, but that anyone that is willing to produce power is able to do so.

“We are able to license some sections to enable more people to come into the power market and produce power.”

On the TraderMoni scheme, he said the government had plans of expanding it to capture more low-income earners in Nigeria.

“It is evident that if we do not find solutions to some of the issues hindering access to finance to people at the lowest end of the ladder, it would become very difficult to take people out of poverty. We think it is possible to lift people out of poverty and that is why we are considering scaling up TraderMoni,” the Vice-President stated.

He noted that studies had shown that all sectors of the Nigerian economy were suffering from endemic management failure.

According to Osinbajo, the problem of the country is management problem. He added that the current government was working hard to address the challenge.

He also said the government was working out a health insurance scheme that would capture majority of Nigerians, adding that there had been talks with the African Development Bank to get several millions of dollars to fund innovation, technology and agriculture in Nigeria.

The President and Chairman of Council, NIM, Olukunle Iyanda, said the conference usually presented the institute the platform to discuss a current issue of national interest with a view to proffering solutions to government to help move the nation forward.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]