‘Auto policy implementation’ll increase spare parts demand’
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Stakeholders in the automotive industry are clamouring for improved activities and vibrancy among registered local assembly plants across the country through government-led sustained patronage, the Managing Director, BtoB Events, Jamie Hill, has said.

According to him, Nigeria is well placed to become the automotive hub of the African continent with over 11.5 million vehicles on the nation’s roads.

Hill said with more assembly plants being set up, there would also be a significant increase in the demand for spare parts.

He stated that the firm remained committed to supporting Nigeria reach its forecast of recording 70 per cent of new cars sold in the country as vehicles assembled or manufactured domestically by 2050.

He stated that based on its commitment, the firm planned to bring the regional automotive sector together under one roof for the West Africa Automotive Show.

According to him, WAAS has received the official endorsement of the National Automotive Design and Development Council and the founding partner is Auto Spare Part and Machinery Distributors Association.

He explained that for three days in November, estimated 100 exhibitors from Nigeria and other countries would gather to network, forge new business ties and show off the latest developments and products in the spare parts and services sector.

Hill noted that suppliers, dealers and manufacturers would also be able to discuss the best practice for the industry and find out more about developing local motor manufacturing industry, adding that with free admission, more than 3,000 visitors were expected.

He said Nigerian businesses would also be well represented, accounting for about 30 per cent of expected exhibitors.

Hill stated that there would also be national pavilions for Morocco and China, smaller groupings from Thailand, Egypt, Tunisia and India among others.

He said, “Having the largest population on the continent creates a huge market opportunity in Nigeria. BtoB has selected Lagos to launch the show as it recognises that Nigeria is well placed to become the automotive hub of the African continent with over 11.5 million vehicles on the roads.

“With over 60 per cent of vehicles on the road being over 12 years old, there is a huge after-market industry. The need for high quality and affordable spare parts is becoming increasingly important.”

The Secretary of the Foreign Trade and Investment Committee at ASPMDA, Leonard Okoye, said the association was supporting WAAS as a way to meet other manufacturers in the competitive market of automobile industry.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]