Snail meat excels but supply remains limited
Arinze Onebunne

Due to its health benefit and excellent taste, snail meat has become more popular among consumers over the past few years, and snail farmers simply cannot keep up with the demand.

It is expected that this demand will continue to increase in future. The price of snail’s meat, which was previously regarded as a relatively cheap meat aimed at the informal market, has therefore increased to level 35 per cent above that of other game meat.

But why is this product in such short supply? Snail produces healthy meat with low cholesterol content, and is recommended by the Heart Foundation. “The meat is fragrant, organic, juicy, tender and visually appealing. As a result, it is quite sought after.

Snail meat is very popular meat among the health-conscious people – healthier than beef, fish and chicken. Giant snails are found in Africa and West Africa in particular, and since these nations do not generally enjoy imported beef, the demand for snail meat is high.

Snail meat is also increasingly featured on the menus of ‘’top class’ restaurants. Quality snail genetics are available at Jovana Farms, and this progress in genetics can possibly meet the growing demand for food.

Snail farming in Nigeria was given little attention until recently, when the price of proteins of animal origin became too expensive for the average Nigerian. Snail management is simple and cheap compared to piggery, fishery and poultry; and it requires little experience. Serious attention has now been given to commercial snail farming. However, Archachatina marginata is the most popular and viable edible snail breed for profitable production.

As Nigeria explores possible areas of diversifying its economy to rake in more foreign exchange, the country should take a closer look at Archachatina marginata giant snails. The animal resource is available in high quantity, but has remained largely untapped and unutilised. Demand for this snail specie in the local and international market is very encouraging.

At Jovana farms, we breed and raise snails naturally on free range method to produce our high quality snail meat for events, and 18-month old snail breeders suitable for people who would like to start their own snail farms. We deliver year round on our weekly route to stores, cold rooms, markets, top class restaurants, individuals and export. For export, snails are killed by dipping them into hot water in an aerated position and boiled for between 13 and 25 minutes. After cooling, the flesh is scooped out of the shell and the edible portions chopped out.

Our snails are of several heritage breeds, including the forest snail or giant African snail (Archachatina archachatina), and the forest giant snail (Archachatina marginata).

Currently, Archachatina marginata giant breed is highly sought-after and sells like hot cake in all the local and international markets. This giant snail breeds are invertebrates that have soft body and a covering of hard shell. They belong to the phylum mollusca. In nature, they are found in forest settings, damp places under leaves, trees, stumps and stones and are abundant during the raining season. These species have the potential to get up to 240 millimetres in length and 150 millimetres in diameter, with six to seven whorls.

The shell has a brownish yellow background with fairly uniformly arranged bands and zigzag lines, or spots that are dark-brown or reddish brown in colour. The columella, outer lip and inside the aperture (mouth) are white or pale blue. The apex of the shell is slightly flattened, bulbous and pale or pinkish in colour. The body colour of the animal is variable albino or tan to ash grey.

Archachatina marginata has the advantage of high adaptability, survivability, highly prolificacy, fleshier and is hardy in addition to its abundance in Nigeria and along West African countries. The giant African land snail is about the largest known land snail. Mature adult could weigh an average of 180-300g. The West African giant snail serves an increasing important role in the tropics by virtue of its survival under captive rearing, resistance to parasite and disease, ability to accept and convert plant parts and artificial diets to flesh, as well as being of high consumer preferences.

Archachitina marginata has the ability to live up to 10 years, attaining early sexual maturity. Clutch size will vary, but may be as large as 12 eggs. The eggs are yellowish in colour and may have dark blotches. The eggs have an incubation period of about 21-27 days. They are usually laid below the soil surface. However, they may be found on the soil surface or in vegetation. Plants consumed by this specie include milk, leaf, etc.

We breed functional, hardy, fast growing fertile snails. We have been selectively breeding our snails for many years to produce a snail that pastures well in our natural environment with excellent taste and flavour. With each generation, we breed the best of the best and export the rest.

We remain committed to providing farmers with improved snail breeders – with fast growth and early maturity. Our snails are always a sure bet, exceeding farmer’s expectations in terms of performance, fertility, hardiness and profitability in all the farms across the country where they are being used.

To help prospective snail farmers avoid unnecessary mistakes, Jovana Farms has embarked on nationwide seminars on animal farming for Nigerians to learn the nitty-gritty of the business in their environment. Those who cannot attend our seminars can order for our self-tutorial VCD & book, and train themselves. The primary objective is to bring this golden opportunity to the door step of every Nigerian as a very sure and potent means of conquering poverty.

Contact us for consultancy,= or attend Jovana Farms seminars nearest to you and discover more opportunities in snail farming! Can’t attend? Order for self-tutorial VCD and book at N7, 500.

Visit us at www.jovanafarms.com,email:[email protected] or call: 080 33262 808 for more details. Choose also the nearest seminar venue from the advert box in this page or from our website.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]