Long-term futures contracts’ll boost capital inflows – Analysts
’Femi Asu

Analysts at CSL Stockbrokers Limited have made a case for the introduction of longer-term futures contracts by the Central Bank of Nigeria to manage naira risk, saying this will help to drive capital into the economy.

Bloomberg reported earlier this month that the CBN might offer naira futures of as long as 10 years to help cushion against foreign-exchange risks and attract longer-term funding to the country.

The Chief Executive Officer, FMDQ Securities Exchange Plc, Bola Onadele, was quoted as saying that market dealers and the FMDQ were “engaging the central bank to extend the curve of the FX futures because it will create stability for capital inflows into Nigeria.”

The CBN started selling foreign-currency futures contracts on the FMDQ Securities Exchange in 2017 with a maximum duration of 13 months. This was to alleviate pressure on the naira by spreading dollar purchases over a period time, enabling investors to hedge against fluctuations in the naira, while also offering forwards that were introduced in 2011.

The CSL Stockbrokers noted that pressure had been mounting on the country’s external reserves in recent times as oil prices had been oscillating around the government’s $60 benchmark, causing outflow of foreign investment from the capital market.

The PUNCH reported on Monday that the nation’s foreign exchange reserves fell from a high of $45.18bn on June 10, 2019 to $42.84bn on September 12, the lowest level since March 12.

“The continued decline in the reserves could limit the ability of the central bank to keep up with its interventionist policy in the foreign exchange market, underpinning the rationale behind exploring new ways of managing foreign exchange risk,” the analysts said.

They noted that the introduction of the futures contracts helped to attract investment to the Treasury bills market as “investors are able to hedge against fluctuations in the naira for the duration of their investment.”

The analysts, however, said the availability of only short-term contracts limited the inflow of non-resident capital to markets with long-term maturities.

“This has resulted in a concentration of short-term maturities, which the central bank is constantly trying to manage, being the main supplier of FX to the foreign exchange market. In our opinion, longer-tenor futures will help to drive capital into Nigeria’s economy,” the CSL Stockbrokers said.

According to the analysts, if the FX curve is extended, bonds with maturities of up to 10 years will become more liquid than they currently are, as they will become more accessible to foreign portfolio investors.

“Also, an extension of the FX futures curve could result in an increase in foreign direct investments because investors will take advantage of the futures to guard against exchange rate volatility,” they added.

The analysts said an extension of the curve would provide opportunities for Nigerians in diaspora to bring their money home and would also be beneficial to long-term borrowers in foreign currency (corporate and non-corporate) “as it reduces the fear of an unexpected erosion in the value of the naira.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]