Interswitch seeks investors ahead of IPO
Feyisayo Popoola

A financial technology company, Interswitch, is in talks with potential anchor investors as it ramps up preparations for a potential London Initial Public Offering, people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg.

Sources said the company was planning to commence the share sale as soon as November.

An IPO could value the company at $1.5bn, Bloomberg reported.

No agreements have been reached, and the structure of any deal is still being deliberated by Interswitch.

Interswitch, majority owned by Helios Investment Partners, was also considering a sale, though it preferred a stock-market listing, the people said.

Roping in anchor investors would help drum up demand for Interswitch’s listing and buoy its valuation at a time when some fund managers are staying away from the United Kingdom’s stock market amid Brexit uncertainties.

Middle East’s payments processor network, International Holdings Plc, brought in Mastercard Incorporated as a cornerstone investor for its April IPO.

It has become one of London’s best-performing major listings this year, gaining 33 per cent since its debut.

Mastercard also agreed to invest €50m ($55) in Nigeria-focused e-commerce firm, Jumia Technologies AG, ahead of the latter’s New York IPO in April.

The Chief Financial Officer, Interswitch, John Maguire, declined to comment on details of the IPO plans. A representative for Helios also declined to comment.

Interswitch aimed to raise about N30bn ($83m) selling bonds, with the first tranche of N20bn planned for the next two years, Maguire said during an interview with Bloomberg.

He said the proceeds would be used to fund business growth as it applied for a mobile-payments licence from the Central Bank of Nigeria.

The company appointed FBNQuest Merchant Bank Limited and Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc as its lead financial advisers for the debt offering and has filed an application with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]