Environmentalists begin campaign against vulture extinction
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Environmentalists have commenced a campaign to save vultures in the country from extinction.

They noted that the creature had been faced with general population decline worldwide at seven per cent yearly for the past three decades.

The environmentalists said there had been huge impact of human activities on the Egyptian vulture Neophron Percnopterus which occurred in desert, sub-desert, wetlands, mountain peaks, grasslands and arid savannah in Nigeria and West Africa.

The Nigerian Conservation Foundation said there was very poor awareness of the consequences of human activities and factors contributing to threats, population density and distribution of the vultures and the conservation and protection measures to revert the trend.

The NCF recently held awareness programmes in Enugu, Oyo, Sokoto and Taraba states in commemoration of the International Vulture Awareness Day 2019, where residents were encouraged to help save the endangered creature.

The Director General of the NCF, Dr Muhtari Aminu-Kano, said the reasons for the population decline of the creature had been largely attributed to poisoning, human disturbance, agriculture, hunting, electrocution and ingestion of tissues from livestock treated with anti-inflammatory drug diclofenac.

“Thus, a lot of conservation actions have been put in place to safeguard N. percnopterus such as education and awareness programmes, inclusion in international legislation, captive breeding, nest guarding schemes and species national action plan,” he said.

According to him, vultures are an ecological vital group of birds that face a huge of threats in many areas that they occur.

He said the NCF, under the Egyptian Vulture New Life Project organised this year’s IVAD in different cities in the country.

He said, “The choice of holding the event in Sokoto is the fact that it serves as one of the locally established migratory corridors for Egyptian Vulture in northern Nigeria.

“Although a survey revealed that the locals are very much aware of the decline in the population of vultures in northern Nigeria, they seem not to know the contributing factors to its decline, especially the farmers and veterinary officers/cattle rearers.”

Aminu-Kano said key target participants in the rally/awareness event were 300 local natural resource users drawn from associations of hunters, traditional medicine practitioners, as well as wildlife traders and crop farmers within Sokoto and its environs.

In Taraba State, he said a stakeholders’ meeting was held to sensitise the masses; while in Enugu, a workshop was held to enlighten the participants on the species of vultures that could be found in Nigeria and the causes of their decline as well as the implications.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]