Energy council offers free training to South African returnees
Okechukwu Nnodim

The Council for Renewable Energy Nigeria has offered to provide free training to Nigerians who returned from South Africa following the xenophobic attacks on foreigners by indigenes in the foreign land.

According to CREN, the training will avail beneficiaries the opportunity to learn all about renewable energy technologies and begin entry-level careers in the solar PV industry at the Asteven Renewable Energy Academy, a subsidiary of Asteven Energy Group.

The council said it decided conduct the free training because of the need to quickly integrate the disenchanted Nigerian victims of xenophobic attacks from South Africa into the fabric of society and give them hope for a better future.

The President, CREN, Sunny Akpoyibo, said, “Nigeria is richly endowed and we shall not allow our people to be cast adrift after losing all they have worked hard for over the years.

“In support of the President’s vision to change the Nigerian story, a part of which is ensuring that all Nigerians have marketable skills, we are offering this opportunity to all interested returnees to come learn technical skills and participate in a business that is commercially viable, environmentally sound and has social importance.

“We, at CREN, guarantee that they shall be trained totally free of charge and also fully equipped to be active participants in this sector.”

Akpoyibo also urged all likeminded advocates to support this programme so as to ensure that the returnees were given the opportunity to immediately get back on their feet as fully trained technicians in the fast growing global renewable energy industry.

“Their training will be contributory to Nigeria’s green growth agenda and the country’s climate change mitigation efforts,” he added.

He said the council would liaise with the House Committee on Diaspora and the Nigerian Diaspora Commission to ensure that the returnee Nigerians were contacted and provided this opportunity.

Akpoyibo said, “It doesn’t just stop there. They will also be trained on setting up renewable energy businesses, provided with product loans, mentorship and support to enable them become fully proficient in the industry, expand their skills and business portfolios. This will enable them contribute to Nigeria’s green growth agenda.”

He noted that this was an opportunity for the returnees to quickly get back on their feet.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]