Smart homes’ll be future of property development –Idyllic
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

Property development firm, Idyllic, says smart buildings will be the future of real estate development.

The firm stated that based on this, it would be delivering only smart homes to its clients.

According to the Manager, Idyllic Property, Mr Tayo Anifowoshe, technology is fast taking over the conventional way of property development and middle-class investors are also asking for more from developers.

“This is where the world is going. We are also going in line with that and going forward, we will be delivering only smart homes except a client requests otherwise,” he said.

Anifowoshe said the firm recently concluded and sold its first five smart buildings comprising four and five-bedroomed semi and fully detached duplexes in the Lafiaji area of Lekki and had commenced work on others.

He said, “We are building 10 more of such smart homes due to demand. We call them affordable smart homes with technology from Poland. Smart means the house is wired in such a way that the entire system in the home can be controlled with a switch within the building or remotely.

“The system enables homeowners to monitor their house where ever they are as long as they have electricity and internet connection but within the house you only need intranet. People now do everything from their phone; so, it won’t be a bad idea to control one’s home from the phone too.”

He explained that the system was designed to control electricity and sound system and many other home appliances, to give homeowners safety and comfort.

“Additional benefit of a smart home is that if you forget to switch off the lights, television or your sound system, you can quickly do that outside the home via the system. You can also monitor your home from your office or any location in the world,” he added.

Anifowoshe said the firm planned to expand to other parts of the country but after consolidating on its successes in Lagos.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]