Ex​​ploitation, theft affecting telecom service quality – Operators
Ife Ogunfuwa

Exploitation by the three tiers of government and individuals, theft of equipment and insurgency have been identified as factors responsible for poor quality of telecommunications service in the country.

Telecom subscribers have in the past months complained of high rate of dropped calls, poor signal and delayed call setup.

A report by the Nigerian Communications Commission also showed that the four mobile network operators failed quality tests in about 26 states across the country.

The Key Performance Indicators that they failed to meet are Dropped Call Rate, Call Setup Success Rate, Standalone Dedicated Control Channel Congestion Rate and Traffic Control Channel Congestion Rate.

Sharing the challenges in the business environment at the NigeriaCom conference in Lagos, the Vice- President, Network Operations, Airtel Nigeria, said the exploitation by the various levels of government, landlords and community at times affected network signals as they often locked down the network sites to get their demands honoured.

According to him, theft of batteries, solar panels, diesel and sometimes the generators in major sites affect communications in the coverage area.

“In Eastern Nigeria, the landlord will tell you that he is the security man and he should be paid a certain amount of money. Later, he will call to say he needs two security men, because the place isn’t safe. And if you don’t pay, he will lock down your site and access denied and it means that community will be starved of services. The subscribers will go to the NCC, saying this area has no network signal,” he added.

To address the insecurity of the equipment, he urged the government to hasten the process of declaring the telecom equipment as critical national infrastructure.

He added, “If the CNI is sorted out, if that man knows if he denies access to telecom sites, he will go to jail, he will never do such a thing.

“If it has been labelled as a national infrastructure, they will be prosecuted accordingly. People don’t tamper with gas pipeline and electricity pole because they know the consequences.”

Also speaking on the community involvement in the disruption of network services, the Chief Executive Officer, Pan African Towers, Wole Abu, said, “A community annexes your site, claiming ownership; that site may be down for one week while you are talking to the community to settle issues, even though they were wrong. The quality of service will suffer. People steal and vandalise the site and nothing is done because the legal system is slow.”

In the North-East, Abu said the insurgency had led to the destruction of some sites which his company had to rebuild.

According to him, his company rebuilt 35 sites in the past one year in the region.

“The insurgency affects the site; we have to build it back. We also bear the cost of the replacement. We are coping but it is getting worse. There are many sites that need military protection. That drives up our cost because we have to pay in areas like Borno, Taraba, Adamawa and Yobe states,” Abu added.

He called on the government to protect the business of telecom operators as their services were useful to all Nigerians, including the government.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]