‘Clean environment crucial to building tourism attraction’
Rasheed Bisiriyu

Nigeria has a lot of beautiful cities that have become unattractive due to indiscriminate disposal of waste and the sheer chaos on our streets, Miss Earth Nigeria 2019, Modupe Garland, has said.

She stressed the need for Nigerians to take real care of their environments in order to attract tourists and turn tourism to a big earner of Foreign Direct Investments.

The 22-year old graduate of Environmental Biology from Yaba College of Technology, Lagos stated this on the sidelines of a dinner event held recently by INCEL Tourism in Lagos.

She said, “There is so much beauty in our natural space. But the dirt and disorderliness on our streets and neighborhoods is actually a disincentive to many holiday goers and vacationers coming into Africa.”

Garland, who recently signed a partnership with the Lagos State Parks and Garden Agency to plant 1,000 trees across Lagos during her reign as Miss Earth Nigeria, recalled how Rwanda had outpaced many nations in its health and environmental policy positions with the country’s capital, Kigali, becoming one of the cleanest capitals in the world.

She said while government needed to invest more in roads and public infrastructure, it was up to the people to keep their environs clean and beautiful, adding, “Garden is a simple way of beautifying the environment and planting trees is a crucial way of protecting the environment.”

She commended the Lagos State Government, especially LASPARK for their commitment to maintaining gardens across the Lagos metropolis.

“Trees are the lungs of the earth; we need clean air to attract tourists,” Garland said, saying, a lot of her friends complained about the humidly in the air, smoke and dust whenever they visited Nigeria.

She said, “We can get cleaner air simply by planting trees.”

According to her, most people do not realise that trees consume the carbon dioxide in the air that humans produce and then give the people oxygen in return, which is the air that humans breathe in. “Hence, the more trees in our environment, the better and cleaner the oxygen we breathe in,” she added.

She asked all Nigerians to join her in her quest to make the environment cleaner and more beautiful for all to live in.

The advocacy, she said, would soon be taken to the Federal Ministry of Environment in Abuja to help raise the awareness of how crucial everyone’s involvement would make a safe and clean environment for people resident in the country as well as attract tourists.

She also hinted about taking the advocacy on clean air and planting trees to the Philippines later in month when she would be competing with other beautiful women around the globe for the coveted crown of Miss Earth at the Miss Earth International Beauty Pageant.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]