Surveyor-General vacates office, quizzed by ICPC
Sunday Aborisade, Abuja

Following an exclusive report published by The PUNCH on Wednesday, the Surveyor-General of the Federation, Ebisintei Awudu, has hurriedly vacated his seat.

He subsequently handed over to the Director of Photography and Remote Sensing in the federal agency, Mohammed Kurfi.

Kurfi, an indigene of Katsina State who will retire from service on October 8, 2019, took over from Awudu on Wednesday.

Investigations by our correspondent revealed that Awudu, after The PUNCH publication, rushed to the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, to allegedly influence his tenure extension but was said to have hit a brick wall.

He then returned to the office, disappointed and succumbed to the pressure of the Nigeria Civil Service Union, which gave him up to Friday, September 13, to vacate his seat or risk an industrial action.

Further findings by our correspondent revealed that Awudu was immediately invited by the operatives of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission over pending allegations of graft against him.

Operatives of the ICPC had in July this year raided Awudu’s office over allegations of contract frauds and theft of public asset, including that of a N1.4bn suspected scam and alleged theft of three vehicles.

He denied any wrongdoing even though senior officials in the office and various audit reports indicted him.

The ICPC spokesperson, Rasheedat Okoduwa, confirmed to our correspondent on Friday that its operatives invited Awudu in furtherance of an existing investigation.

She said, “He (Awudu) was not arrested but he was invited for interrogation and he came. You know he is under investigation. He simply came to respond to our summons for interview. He was allowed to go after questioning.”

The Federal Council of the NCSU had on Tuesday given Awudu up till September 13 to hand over to the most senior person to him or risk an industrial action.

The workers, in a letter with reference number NCSU/FC/E157/64, dated September 6, 2019, and addressed to the Surveyor-General, noted that Awudu’s tenure had expired since April 29, 2019.

The letter, signed by the Secretary of the FCT Council of the NCSU, Sanni Adewale, wondered why the Surveyor-General would ignore an August 28, 2019 circular from the SGF to all heads of federal government agencies.

The federal civil servants explained that the SGF, in his latest circular with reference number SGF/OP/I/S.3/T/39, emphasised the contents of a similar one with reference number SGF/50/S.II/C 2/268 issued on December 4, 2017.

The circular, a copy of which was obtained by our correspondent in Abuja on Tuesday, expressly directed any head of federal government agency whose tenure had expired to hand over immediately to the most senior civil servant and vacate office.

Attempts by our correspondent to speak with the Surveyor-General through his mobile phone number 08059262525 were not successful as of the time of filing this report as recorded responses from the number indicated that his phone had been switched off.

Also, Awudu had yet to reply the text message sent to him as of press time.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]