15 oil, petrol stations sealed in Kano, Adamawa
Hindi Livinus and Ted Odogwu

The Department of Petroleum Resources has sealed off five filling stations in Adamawa State for fuel pump manipulation and shortchanging motorists and members of public buying fuel from them.

Ten lubricant firms in Kano found to be selling substandard engine oil have similarly been shut by Standards Organisation of Nigeria.

The DPR threatened to withdraw the operational licences issued to the affected filling stations in Adamawa State.

The Acting Controller, DPR in Adamawa State, Dr Laminga Mohammed, said the sealed petrol stations were found to be operating in contravention of the DPR guidelines and committing acts of economic sabotage through the manipulation of their meters.

He said, “The DPR will not fold its hands and watch marketers sabotage the economy of the country and cheat Nigerians. The regulator may withdraw the operating licences of the five filling stations which we have sealed off in the southern senatorial district found to be operating in contravention of the DPR guidelines.

“Without criminally adjusting their pumps, these filling stations can still make good profit. The sealed stations, based on our meter test, if you buy 10 litres of fuel, you get only eight litres. You are shortchanged by two litres. It is unacceptable.”

He called for the cooperation of motorists to curtail irregularities by petroleum product marketers by reporting any sharp practice noticed in any filling station to the appropriate authorities.

In a related development, the Kano State Coordinator of the SON, Alhaji Yunusa Mohammed, on Friday, said the agency was ready to clamp down on any lubricant firm not complying with the acceptable standard in the discharge of their services to members of the public.

Leading a compliance team to 10 companies selling engine oil in Kano, the coordinator said he ordered the closure of the lubricant firms, following their non-compliance with government’s regulations.

“The raid is a directive from our national headquarters. It came through the SON DG’s Office that we must clear our area of all forms of unwholesome and sharp practices in the lubricant sector,” he said.

“We are instructed to bring to book all those who are dealing with the unblended engine oil so that the outcry from the general public in consuming adulterated engine oil can be maximally reduced.”

In his reaction, the Chairman, Kano State Engine Oil Association, Alhaji Yusuf Abdullahi, said the association was willing to comply with the government’s directives even as he urged the authorities to deal with the sources of the substandard lubricants and not only the retailers in Kano.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]