Lagos urges RTEAN to resolve leadership crisis
Samuel Awoyinfa

The Lagos State Government has urged the Road Transport Employers’ Association of Nigeria to immediately resolve the crisis within its fold to foster peace within the state.

According to a statement from the Ministry of Transportation, this call was sequel to a protest to the Ministry of Transportation by about 200 union members armed with placards with various inscriptions, chanting solidarity songs.

They alleged that the state union Chairman, Alhaji Musa Mohammed, who had been in the position for five years was not ready to go at the expiration of his tenure according to the constitution of their Union.

Speaking further on the issues within the union, Alhaji Sulaiman Onabanjo, stated that member of the union had been enslaved for seven years under the leadership of Mohammed.

An executive council member of the union, Mr Tope Akinfaderin, claimed that many of them were dismissed and not allowed to perform their constitutional rights.

Addressing the protesters, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Transportation, Mr Oluwatoyin Fayinka, assured that the state government was neutral on the issues raised and had at no time be in support of the parties.

He urged them to refrain from any act of violence that was capable of disrupting the peace and tranquility of the state.

He warned them to desist from using names of management of the ministry as well as the state government in achieving their individual plans and ambitions.

The ministry said it had earlier received series of petitions, complaining and warning the government on the impending crisis that might erupt from the union.

While the protesters were being addressed, the National President of the Union and his Exco members came into the gathering and were invited into meeting with the management of the ministry. The peace meeting which was presided over by the Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederick Oladeinde, later concluded that the ministry had no plan to impose anybody on the union.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]