What happens to loved ones when you’re gone?
Author of Practical Steps to Financial Independence, business and finance coach, Mr Usiere Uko, writes on making provisions for your loved ones before your demise

We seem to think death only happens to other people or other families. I felt so too until about two decades ago. In 16 years, I lost both parents and a sibling. It finally dawned on me that I was not so special, I too will leave this planet one day.

Someone I knew very well died recently without a will or adequate financial arrangements for loved ones left behind. He had enough resources, but his wife and children have no access to it. No one has the password to his phone, knows his ATM PIN, the location of some important documents or assets. They suffered the double jeopardy of losing the breadwinner and the bread.

The wife had to depend on donations from friends and family to cover burial and other expenses. Some assets are only known to strangers who might take advantage. The wife is not a signatory to known assets, including bank accounts. It takes quite a while to put together the paperwork required for the process of For assets whereby the wife is not a signatory to, it takes quite a long process to gain assess to assets left behind by the deceased. Apart from the paperwork, it is almost a full-time job chasing files from one table to the other. It often takes more than a year to complete the process in some instances. That is cold comfort for a widow who needs funds to bury the husband and pay the children’s school fees for the next term. Some banks accounts, financial investments and property are never discovered. Sometimes some banks/bankers take advantage of the trapped funds. After a while, unclaimed funds are taken over by the state.

Two become one, but not financially

We have a thousand and one reasons why we play this financial hide and seek game while alive and leave behind loved ones to endure avoidable pain. The situation becomes worse in the case of hostile and predatory in-laws who swoop on the assets left behind by the deceased. Some relatives who professed love turn into something else when an opportunity presents itself to grab what is not theirs.

Humans seem to be experts at making simple things complicated. We did not invent marriage. The creator saw that it was not good for man to fly solo. He created the institution of marriage whereby a man and a woman will leave their family and join together to become one flesh. We made vows at the altar to surrender all to the good of the Team, but when the party is over, we start to do our own thing. We start to fly solo. The husband keeps things away from the wife and sometimes vice versa. The wife is not a joint signatory to bank accounts, financial investments etc. A friend once told me that if his wife knew how much he earned, she would make unnecessary financial demands on him.

The situation above would never have arisen if the couple had joint accounts, bought property, shares etc jointly, each spouse has each others’ PIN, phone, email etc passwords and both are entirely naked to each other without hiding anything from each other (as vowed during the exchange of rings). A man almost died in the hospital because he was rushed there in a coma and the wife had no clue how to access funds to pay for his treatment. She had to borrow from friends until the man mercifully came out of coma and provided the information under duress. Another almost died at an accident scene because emergency responders could not access contacts on his phone to call his wife.

What is our end game?

What I still find hard to understand is what the end game is. Is it to leave our assets to outsiders when we are gone? Is that the plan? Why complicate a process that is supposed to be simple and straightforward?

I have heard all sorts of excuses.

These excuses can be rolled into three main categories:

I don’t want my spouse to know that I have this much money so that she does not ask for more money (secret savings). I don’t want my spouse to know how I spend money. The secrecy provides the cover to embark on a project, give to others (family friends etc.) or lovers etc. without the knowledge of your spouse. I regret this marriage or I don’t think it will last (usually not verbalised). So you are busy squirrelling money away to fund your back up plan.

In all the instances, rather than confront the problem frontally, we dance around it. You need to be crystal clear what we want. If you want in, then play full with all your card on the table. If you want out, then say so and start the process. There is no point playing hide and seek in a relationship bound by a covenant.

What then is your end game? When you skirt around the issue and scheme your spouse out of your finances, how is this the long term solution? What happens to your family if you drop dead? How will your spouse have access to your accounts when she is not listed as next of kin? If only your driver, cousin or friend knows the location of property or vital documents, what should they do with it after you are gone? Are they to restore the assets to your family. There must be a method to the madness.

Don’t leave things to chance or benevolence of friends and family. Plan your estate in such a way that life continues seamlessly for the loved ones left behind.

Doing things jointly as a couple makes the transition seamless. Nothing is new to the spouse left behind. She doesn’t need to present death certificate, swear affidavits, fill a mountain of paperwork and wait endlessly to access funds that rightly belong to the family.

Your family will miss you for sure, spare them the added pain of trying to gain access to the estate. It is needless pain. The funny thing is that you cannot go to the great beyond with those assets. You came naked and empty and will return virtually the same way. Why make a simple matter complicated?

For questions or comments email [email protected]; to order the book PSFFI, call or SMS to 0808 275 0980. Visit www.financialfreedominspiration.com. You can join the Financial Education Forum on Telegram @ t.me/personalfinanceforum. Follow me on twitter @usiere

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]