Firm embarks on expansion drive in West Africa
Samuel Awoyinfa

Air conditioning and commercial refrigeration major, Blue Star International, has embarked on an aggressive expansion drive in West Africa.

The company, which is a subsidiary of Blue Star Limited, with its comprehensive range of air conditioning and refrigeration products, commenced operations in 2017 in Nigeria in association with its local distribution partner, Merald Technology Solutions Nigeria Limited, said it intended to rapidly expand its business in this market.

To promote its wide range of offerings, the firm hosted a technical seminar in Lagos.

Speaking at the seminar, the Chief Executive Officer, Blue Star International FZCO, Dawood Ozair, said, “Blue Star takes immense pride in being associated with Merald Technology Solutions, a leading player in Nigeria with a strong base in providing engineering services and facility management solutions.

“We are confident that with Blue Star’s products that are backed by robust R&D and world-class manufacturing and Merald Technology’s well entrenched network in this region, we will be able to build on and consolidate our presence in this region.”

The Managing Director, Merald Technology Solutions, Yogendra Singh, added, “With many upcoming projects and development of both residential and commercial properties, we are ready and equipped to provide the best of Blue Star’s HVAC solutions most suited to each requirement.”

Blue Star said it had an edge in the industry due to its diverse and technologically superior product offerings such as air cooled chillers, water cooled chillers, process chillers, ducting splits, ducting packaged systems, VRF systems, magnetic bearing oil free centrifugal chillers, cold rooms, banana ripening chambers, chest freezers, room air conditioners, water coolers, and bottled water dispensers among others.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]