Ogun gets FG’s commendation on afforestation
Samuel Awoyinfa

Ogun State Government has been commended for sustaining afforestation values in its forest reserves with a view to reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation of the environment.

The National Coordinator, Reducing Emissions Deforestation and Degradation, Dr Moses Ama, gave the commendation on the occasion of REDD+’s visit to the state.

He noted with satisfaction the active participation of the state as one of the top three states in the REDD programme, which he said had helped the agency to address the challenges facing preservation of forest in the country.

While observing the negative impact of deforestation on the country, the REDD+ coordinator called for immediate action by all stakeholders to tackle the challenge for proper preservation of forest reserves.

According to him, there will be adequate assessment of the reserves and forest resources to indicate states’ readiness for participation in the REDD+ programme.

The Permanent Secretary, Ogun State Ministry of Forestry, Mr Dolapo Akinwunmi, spoke on the efforts of the ministry in tackling deforestation, saying the state government under the Land Degradation Neutrality, an initiative of the Federal Government, entered into a public-private partnership agreement with the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority and Lafarge Holding in 2015 to initiate a transformative scheme called forest landscape restoration project.

The project, according to him, is intended to increase the current tree cover of Imeko and Aworo forest reserves from 10 to 80 per cent by the year 2030, through the planting of about 20 million indigenous and commercial trees among other benefits.

He commended the Federal Government through the Federal Ministry of Environment’s REDD+ programmes, which he said had added positive values to the preservation of forest resources in the country.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]