African leaders, others discuss digital agric revolution
Samuel Awoyinfa

More than 2,300 delegates last week converged on Accra, Ghana for the 10th edition of the African Green Revolution forum.

The AGRF is the world’s premier forum for African agriculture, pulling together stakeholders in the agricultural landscape to discuss programmes, investments and policies to achieve an inclusive and sustainable agricultural transformation across the continent.

The theme of the event was: ‘Grow digital: Leveraging digital transformation to drive sustainable food systems in Africa’.

Leaders from countries across Africa such as Presidents of Ghana, Nana Addo Akufo-Addo; Togo, Faure Gnassaingbe; Niger, Mahamadou Issoufou, and Nigeria’s Vice-President, Yemi Osinbajo, as well as the Prime Minister of Rwanda, Edouard Ngirente, participated in the event.

A statement said they shared their experience in the development of agriculture within a digital era and contribution to the goals of the Malabo Declaration (2014) and the Sustainable Development Goals.

The project rallied the leaders and various stakeholders around a common purpose – to unleash the full potential of Africa’s millions of smallholder farmers and agriprenuers “who provide about 80 per cent of the food and agricultural products consumed across the continent and generate millions of jobs and inclusive economic growth.”

As a localised media group on the AGRF, StarTimes has proposed to facilitate the agricultural development in Africa through digital media.

The Vice-GM to the Overseas Department of StarTimes Group and the CEO of NTV-STAR TV Network Ltd, Zhang Junqi, addressed and interacted with the guests who came from all over the world.

Although digitalisation is one of the main facilitating efforts for knowledge sharing, it is generally recognised that the lack of infrastructure contributes mostly to the low penetration of digitalisation in Africa, according to the statement.

Jinqi expressed confidence that the efforts of StarTimes would create access to digital terrestrial content in rural areas across Africa.

He said, “It is StarTimes’ social obligation to make our platforms available for educational content popularisation across Africa. That is the reason that StarTimes offered to broadcast agriculture-related videos from Bill & Melinda Gates’ Foundation Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa and the relevant resources. These videos will be localised in each country and broadcast in local language by facilities of the ‘Access to satellite TV for 10,000 African Villages’ project. ”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]