Nigerian ports handle 18.67 million MT in three months
Anna Okon

Nigerian ports recorded a total cargo throughput of 18.8 million Metric Tonnes in the first three months of 2019, data from the Nigerian Ports Authority have revealed.

The ports welcomed 1,045 vessels with Gross Registered Tonnage of 32.97 million tonnes.

Two empty containers came in while the number of laden containers was 122,787 with GRT of 2.8 million MT.

Empty containers that left the ports numbered 95,447 while laden ones were 28,162 with GRT of 486,978 tonnes. Out of this number, Twenty Equivalent-Units containers were 37,733.

The major mode of trade for the quarter under review was by sea and the leading port of operation was Apapa port which accounted for N4.06tn or 89.6 per cent of total export transaction.

This was followed by Port-Harcourt (3) Onne through which goods worth N298.6bn were shipped and Tin Can Island which recorded exports worth N109bn or 2.4 per cent.

In terms of imports, Apapa Port also remained the leading port of operation with transactions valued at N1.3tn or 34.5 per cent. Port Harcourt (3) accounted for N882.3bn or 23.8 per cent while Tin Can Island accounted for N701.0bn or 18.9 per cent.

Comparatively, the total cargo throughput for the full year of 2018 was 73.2 million tonnes.

An average cargo throughput per quarter in 2018 was 18.2 million tonnes.

While speaking about the increase in cargo throughput in the first half of 2018, the Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, Dr Dakuku Peterside, attributed it to a new adjustment in freight rates.

He said the increase in freight rates benchmark was reviewed for three per cent levy billing to reflect prevailing realities in shipping based on the request of operators.

Peterside added that the new benchmark had succeeded in fostering harmonious regulator-operator relationship and brought about positive trends in the industry leading to more patronage.

He explained that during the period under review, there was an increase in indigenous participation in Cabotage vessels manning, ownership building and registration as a result of zero tolerance on granting waivers.

He said, “We have also witnessed an increase in total number of wholly-owned Nigerian vessels on the Nigerian Cabotage register.”

Stakeholders have pitched the end of the year for increased cargo volume.

According to them, this will be made possible by improved condition of the port access roads.

The Apapa/Wharf access road has been rehabilitated and the area has seen improvement in traffic going and coming from the AP Moeller terminals.

This has also reportedly resulted in a slight reduction in haulage cost inwards the Lagos Port terminal.

The Managing Director of Ports and Cargo Terminal located at Tin Can Island and operated by Sifax, Mr John Jenkins, expressed the hope that the Tin Can Island axis would also witness improvement in traffic before December.

Jenkins said Ports and Cargo terminal recorded total container traffic of 130,000 TEU between January and June 2019.

He said with improved condition of the Tin Can Island road, which is currently under construction, the container traffic should increase to 290,000 TEUs by the end of the year.

The National Coordinator, Save Nigeria Freight Forwarders, Dr Osita Chukwu, equally expressed hope that the volume of shipment would improve towards the end of 2019 and beginning of 2020 with complete rehabilitation of the port access roads.

He said the major problem with Tin Can Island was the access road.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]