Netcom expands to mark 15th anniversary
Netcom Africa has announced its expansion from Internet service provider to a technology- transformational firm.

This, it said, was to mark its 15 years of doing business in Nigeria as one of the firms to have deployed critical information technology solutions in providing services.

Speaking during an event to mark the anniversary in Lagos, the Group Executive Vice President and the Chief Technology Officer of the firm, Mr Yen Choi, said Netcom Africa had come of age, having made big strides in the ICT ecosystem.

He explained that Netcom Africa had been Nigeria’s one of the leading service providers since 2004, staying ahead of the competition with cutting-edge platforms in VSAT, WIMAX, radio, and fibre technology.

He added that the firm, over the years, had become a major player in business transformation solutions, empowering organisations to lead their market space by keeping pace with the rapid changes in innovations; ensuring relevance in specific business initiatives required to maximise revenue generation.

Choi added, “One of our ways of working is innovating; we constantly tried to innovate and that is what other firms must understand. Innovation is the key in this industry. We are one of the first companies to connect to SAT 3 cable system. This is an undersea cable that connects Europe to Nigeria.

“The benefits were that the capacity was large; this reduced the cost of Internet and latency. We were the first to offer SAT 3 services outside of Nigerian Telecommunications, which was then a national carrier.”

On the company’s profitability and client support and loyalty, he stated, “It is our commitment to quality service and honesty. These are deliberate processes we put in place; we have a well defined structure and procedures. This is a policy in Netcom Africa. We ensure that what we deliver is the same thing every time. We are continually improving our systems and processes to be more efficient.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]