I aimed for the best when I got admission –Ogunkeye, CU first-class graduate
Obafunminiyi Ogunkeye, 22, graduated with a first class from the Department of Information and Communication Engineering at Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State, with 4.79 CGPA. In this interview with TUNDE AJAJA, he talks about his motivation for excellence

What have you been doing since you graduated?

Life after graduation has been quite delightful. I have spent a great time working with an educational social enterprise, DoubleYou Concept, which was founded by my course mates. This was a way of investing in my passion to see a positive change in the African learning culture. My contributions to the organisation include, but are not limited to, providing course curriculum and timetables for a training programme hosted in Jalingo, Taraba State. In addition, I have maintained a sense of personal development by reading vastly and fine-tuning my technical skills.

Would you say graduating with first class was a plan actualised or hard work simply paid off?

Since my primary and secondary school years, I have always had a mindset for excellence. I have always made strong efforts in putting in my best despite some shortcomings. So, getting into the university wouldn’t be an exception; I aimed towards being the best and of course, that included having a first-class result. From my first semester, I got a first-class result. In fact, I bagged a perfect GPA of 5.00 and that really propelled my desire to graduate with a first class grade. I had a plan every semester to never fall below a certain grade and that translated to graduating with a first class by July 2019 and emerging the best male graduate in my course.

How easy or difficult was it?

“The path to success is to take massive, determined action”, says Tony Robbins. By inculcating a positive mindset and hardwork mentality, getting a first class seemed inevitable. It was not easy, but with consistent actions and staying disciplined, I was able to derive my success formula and that helped me throughout my stay in university. By the time I was finishing my third year, I was more than convinced that I would graduate with a first-class result.

SEE ALSO: I have over 10 SANs interested in my case –Adewale, expelled FUNAAB student

Do you recall what inspired you to want to be an engineer?

My dad was a major influence to my choice of studying engineering. He studied Electrical and Electronics Engineering and I feel watching him work while growing up tilted my interests in that direction. By the time I entered senior secondary school, I was in the science class and excelled in subjects such as Further Mathematics, Physics and Technical Drawing. So, I was more than convinced I would be fine there. I actually applied for Mechanical Engineering due to my good grasp of Technical Drawing but I was offered Information and Communication Engineering and shortly after we resumed, my interest in it grew. Its dynamic nature and how applicable it is in other fields of engineering made it very attractive to me, especially because I was also interested in Information Technology, Electrical and Computer Engineering. It seemed like the right choice for me after all.

For the benefit of students who might want to consider it but do not know about the course, what does it entail?

Information and Communication Engineering broadly entails having knowledge of internet technology and programming, telecommunication software development, satellite communications, computer security techniques and networking protocols. It involves the creation of new technologies for both society and industry in computing, information processing, networking, communication and other related fields. Gaining skills in the aforementioned areas is critical to succeeding in this field of engineering. So, we are responsible for the research, design, development and production of communications equipment/systems. And its job prospects, whether in Nigeria or any part of the world, are quite wide as they can get engaged in the fields of electrical and electronic engineering, physics, computer science and telecommunications. And specifically, the career opportunities include software engineer, network engineer, data scientist, data analyst, systems/business analyst and database/systems administrator.

Overall, what will you tie your success to?

I can confidently say that hard work, dedication to my study even when it wasn’t convenient and most importantly, God’s favour were my major keys to succeeding in my academics. In addition, associating with the right people served as a greater motivation because one’s environment actually has a huge influence on how one performs. I had a lot of help from wonderful people along the way and I’m immensely grateful for that. Having a good relationship with my course mates helped a lot as I was able to work better in teams; I got assistance and provided same to the best of my ability. They made the past five years memorable and worthwhile.

Which part of the course did you find most interesting?

I thoroughly enjoyed the Computer Security Techniques course. The course enlightened me on various cyber security-related topics which I first came across from personal reading. Also, the lecturer always made practical examples and engaged us in capacity building tasks.

There seems to be endless opportunities in the world of Information Engineering. Are there such benefits you see your field contributing?

The IT industry is one of the most significant sectors today and Information and Communication Engineering has a major part to play. One of the key areas taught in the course is Satellite Communications. This field offers solutions in health care, business, education, government and the revolution of Internet technologies. All these could be addressed by someone with up-to-date skills in this course. Another possibility I see is the knowledge of computer/information security which is already deemed crucial by global corporations and business owners worldwide. Security threats have become one of the major challenges in the contemporary world due to the rapid upgrade in technology. Hence there is a need for people skilled in cybersecurity, data analysis, cloud computing, and Internet of Things in the job market today. The study of Information engineering will offer these job possibilities in developing nations.

What are the areas you think Nigeria should speedily improve on?

It is no news that science, technology and innovation have become key factors contributing to economic growth in both advanced and developing economies. The gains of ICT should be magnified across all industries in the country. A proper standardisation of ICTs in the education sector is what I feel Nigeria should quickly improve on. The government should provide equitable access to ICT-enabled education and training in all parts of the country, including disadvantaged communities. As long as our policy contains this level of e-readiness, I feel the concept of what is being taught in courses like Information and Communication Engineering will be applied to the sustainable socio-economic growth and development in Nigeria.

What are your aspirations?

I’m enthusiastic about the use of technology to solve real life problems and that has made me particularly interested in Cybersecurity and Data Analysis. I plan to get relevant, applicable training in each of these fields and provide solutions to social issues. I’d love to utilise the mandatory National Youth Service Corps period to really launch my career in my desired fields while working with a major global corporation. In the same vein of doing socially-impactful work, I plan to continue with DoubleYou Concept where we are committed to providing fulfilling and delightful learning experiences for young people in digital and tech skills. I plan to make self-development a lifestyle and contribute my efforts towards good social causes in my community. Meanwhile, it’s my desire to work with any progressive, innovative company where I can use and apply my technical abilities, receive specialist training and build on the strengths I bring to the company. A company where I can gain relevant exposure in, but not limited to, Cybersecurity and Data Analysis related fields. I’m particularly interested in working in global technology/IT companies, especially IBM and Google because of the varied opportunities one has access to while creating social value.

What is your advice to students who desire your kind of result?

I advise all students to make the most of their university experience. They should engage in lifelong learning, identify their passion, form meaningful relationships, develop good study habits, manage their time, do extracurricular activities, ask questions and love yourself. Above all, put your trust in God and watch your efforts turn into meaningful results.

Have you always had excellent performance in your previous schools?

Yes, I have. I had my primary education in Redeemers International School where I graduated as the Head Boy and recipient of other academic prizes. For my secondary school education, I attended Rainbow College where I also got the Head Boy position in SS3. Rainbow College really kept us on our toes in our preparation for the West African Senior School Certificate Examination and when the results were released, I had five As and three Bs. Preparing for the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination was more of a personal effort and I excelled in it too. In addition to the academic accolades, I was privileged to represent the schools in various competitions. I received a lot of academic prizes and maintained top positions throughout. Making my parents proud was always a must for me.

On getting to the university, which was a different terrain, did you take any major decision(s) that helped you eventually?

I made reading a constant habit and it became like a second nature to me. And for my siblings and I, my mum compelled us to always take our studies seriously right from when we were in primary school. It wasn’t easy, it always seemed like a form of punishment but her efforts instilled in us a strong sense of dedication to our academics and that always reflects in our outstanding grades. I made a goal to start my first semester in my first year with a 5.00 GPA and I achieved it. That really strengthened my desire to graduate with a first class by the end of my final year. I became more sociable in my second semester and even took to photography for a while, but I would say I stayed indoors mostly. However, I made sure my studies didn’t suffer as I found a way to balance both.

Could you still recall your most memorable moments?

Asides my convocation day, my happiest moment must have been the day of my final project defense. A lot of effort was put into the execution of the project and I was super proud of myself with the outcome. The defence went quite smoothly and I’m grateful for the help I received along the way from my supervisors and friends.

Is there anything you would have loved to do as a student that you could not do?

I would have loved to volunteer some more, participate more in extracurricular activities and sports and be more outgoing particularly in taking up more leadership positions to develop my capacity.

Were there were things you did differently from others that helped you?

My preparation for tests and exam always started from the first lecture and I didn’t hesitate to ask for help on any topic from my coursemates and friends.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]