UBEC counterpart funds: Commissioner lauds Ihedioha for paying up
Gibson Achonu, Owerri

The Imo state Commissioner for Education, Professor Viola Onwuliri has commended the state Governor, Chief Emeka lhedioha for paying the Universal Basic Education Commission counterpart funds up to date.

Onwuliri gave the commendation when she paid a working visit to the lmo State Universal Basic Education Board Headquarters, along Port Harcourt Road, Owerri.

She observed with dismay that the immediate past administration stopped paying the funds since 2016. She poured encomiums on Ihedioha for living up to expectations by doing the needful.

Speaking further, Onwuliri reminded the Management and Staff of the Board, that they were also an integral part of the Ministry of Education, thereby directing the Executive Chairman to seek approval before taking any action on official matters.

Onwuliri also stressed the need for the board to ensure that schools in the state are fenced round in order to secure the land from encroachment and the facilities from the activities of thieves.

She decried allegations of racketeering and extortion levelled against the IMSUBEB staff, with regards to the ongoing employment and the award of contracts, warning that anybody caught in such illegal act, would be sanctioned accordingly.

Onwuliri said, “I maintain that the employment process will be transparent and merit based. Proficiency in lgbo language and qualifications in Education will be added advantages.

Meanwhile, the Education Commissioner frowned at the unclean environment of the IMSUBEB Headquarters, describing it as very appalling, stating that a dirty environment was an act of indiscipline.

Earlier in his remark, the Executive Chairman of the Board, Professor Obioma lheduru stated that the Board was concerned with basic education which he said was the foundation for learning.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]