UTME: JAMB denies parents access to candidates’ profiles
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board has said that parents or any third party of candidates sitting for the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination are henceforth not allowed to access the candidates’ profiles and make any correction, except the candidates themselves.

The board also warned its zonal and state offices nationwide not to “transact any business on candidates’ profiles” on the request of parents, guardians or other proxies, except the candidates come in person.

The board noted that it would apply sanctions to any of its workers or Computer-Based Test centre which defaults in the rule.

JAMB stated these in a letter signed by the Director, Test Administration Department, on behalf of the Regsitrar, Prof Is-haq Oloyede.

The letter was published in the JAMB weekly bulletin obtained by our correspondent and is titled, “Advisory on non-attendance to third-party/proxy of candidates at all Computer-Based Test Centres and JAMB offices.”

The board said, “It has been observed that there are cases of conflict on authorisation of changes on candidate’s data, majorly between candidates and their parents or guardians. This is in addition to fraudsters taking advantage of the naivety of some candidates to collect their vital access codes to effect unauthorised changes on a candidate’s profile.

“Consequently, nobody including parents or guardians or any proxy should be allowed to transact any business on any candidate’s profile. No third party should be allowed access into or alter the profile of any candidate at any of the board’s offices or any Computer-Based Test Centres. There is no exception to this instruction.

“All JAMB Zonal and state offices and accredited and approved CBT centres are hereby directed to strictly comply with this instruction without any waiver or use or misuse of discretion. The board’s system is automated to monitor, report and alert on access and alteration on every candidate’s profile, including providing information on the person, the place and the system or facilities that transacted such activities.

“The board will not hesitate to sanction any person or centre that fails to comply with this directive.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]