Imo corps members advised against unnecessary travels, vices
Corps members serving in Imo State have been warned to avoid unnecessary travels and vices that are inimical to their well-being.

According to the News Agency of Nigeria, the NYSC Area Coordinator in the South-East Office, Ahmed Ikaka, gave the advice on Monday during his official visit to the Imo Orientation Camp at Eziama Obaire in Nkwerre Local Government Area of the state.

Ikaka said that unnecessary travels had led to the deaths of some corps members, adding that they should obtain permission from the state coordinator of the corps before going on a journey.

He urged corps members in the state not to engage in acts or vices that would endanger their health and that of other people.

The NYSC area coordinator commended the corps members for their successes that led to their being in camp and advised them to embrace the skills acquisition programme of the NYSC, which would make them more responsible and self reliant.

Ikaka reiterated that the essence of the scheme bordered on the unity of all Nigerians, noting that those clamouring for the division of the country were not exposed and had not travelled wide.

“The NYSC is all about unity. People clamouring for division and fighting each other are not exposed. Since 1973, NYSC has remained the only legacy that had kept the country as one,” he said.

Earlier, the NYSC State Coordinator, Mr John Eloeboh, had highlighted the activities, which the NYSC embarked upon in the state since the camp opened for the 2019 Batch ‘C’ Stream 1 Corps members on November 5, 2019.

He also commended the corps members for being dedicated, loyal, disciplined and committed to the goals of the scheme since they arrived at the camp.

He said the camp officials and personnel of other collaborating agencies in the camp had equally shown dedication in the discharge of their duties to the corps members.

Eloeboh added that the Imo State Government had completed a new hostel for corps members, while efforts were being made to convince the government of the need to build more.