Pay attention to varsity education, Okebukola urges FG
Dayo Ojerinde

The Chairman, Governing Council, National Open University, Prof Peter Okebukola, has urged the Federal Government to pay more attention to Nigerian universities in the area of research.

Okebukola lamented the worrisome state of laboratories in some of the universities, stressing that they lacked the equipment that would help researchers to be productive.

He added that the situation had prevented researchers from being effective, despite the fact that they were talented.

Okebukola spoke during the unveiling of the book, ‘Dare to Be,’ written by a former educational administrator at Corona Schools Trust Council, Mrs Carmen Latty.

Advising undergraduates to seize advantage of mobile phones to complement learning, he said, “Students should take advantage of mobile phones to engage themselves in electronic studies, instead of using them negatively by indulging in watching pornographic videos, as recent research indicated.

“The book (Dare to Be) has several life experiences of successes and failures. So, the benefit to you, for instance, is that if you read it, it will let you see some experiences that connect with you now or in the future.”

The author of the book, Mrs Carmen Latty, said she was prompted to write the book in order to help reshape the Nigerian education system with her experience on the job.

“When you have a story to tell and it is a good story, please tell it, especially a story that will impact on the people and encourage them about the struggle of life. When you do this, you will stand as a source of strength to them. And my over 50-year service in education in this country, people need to know this and learn from it.

“Currently, we are crying about the status of education in the country and the question is what are we doing about this? This is where the story of my life comes in to help shape things right in this direction. I perceived that there are lots to be done to help Nigeria education and this book will help on this,” Latty said.

The Chairman of the occasion, Dr Alimi Abdu-Rasaq, commended the author, noting that she had a lot to pass on to the coming generation.

Also, a former Deputy Governor of Lagos State Mrs Sarah Sosan, called for improved funding of education in Nigeria to bring out the best in the sector.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]