UBEC builds model school in Bauchi, donates N2bn
Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi

The Universal Basic Education Commission has commenced the construction of a North-East UBEC Model School situated in Bauchi State.

The Executive Secretary, UBEC, Hamid Bobboyi, while speaking at the flag-off of the construction of the School on Thursday, explained that the introduction of the Model School marked a turning point in the delivery of qualitative education within the basic education sub-sector.

He said that the provision of a conducive environment for effective teaching and learning will serve as centres which will promote teaching and learning through ICT devices.

Bobboyi noted that the model school would have facilities for pre-primary school, learners with special needs, primary and junior secondary school, classrooms, special needs classrooms, audio visual rooms, science laboratories, vocational workshops, libraries, multi-purpose training centre, staff room, offices, clinics, playground, toilets, assembly ground and cafeteria.

He, however, said they would be equipped with the state-of-the-art ICT devices, including interactive boards, computers, ipads, tablets and Internet enabled television sets, among others.

In order to ensure the Model School projects are delivered to specifications, he added, the commission had engaged the services of competent consultants in the various field of the construction industry to supervise the projects.

The UBEC executive secretary also said that two models were proposed under the Model School Initiative for the basic education sector. He acknowledged Governor Bala Mohammed’s support to the project.

In his speech, the governor said the government provided 6.7 hectares of land for the construction of the model school.

Mohammed described the deployment of Information Communication Technology-based facilities in school management and administration as another landmark aimed at checking absentees, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms in addition to ensuring better acquisition of knowledge especially in critical subjects.

He expressed his gratitude to the Federal Ministry of Education and Universal Basic Education Commission for siting the project in the state and pledged to ensure the maintenance of the school.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]