We’ve 27,503 nomadic pupils – Gombe SUBEB
Chima Azubuike, Gombe

The Chairman of the Gombe State Universal Basic Education Board, Babaji Babadidi, has said that no less than 27,503 Fulani children have been enrolled in nomadic school across the 11 local government areas of the state.

Babadidi stated this while speaking at a five-day capacity development training for members of nomadic school-based management committee organised by the National Commission for Nomadic Education in Gombe.

The Chairman also said Nomadic schools in the state were grossly inadequate, hence the need for additional ones to improve the nomadic education in the state.

Stressing that the state had only 97 nomadic schools with 387 staffs, he added, “The number is grossly inadequate, considering the fact that Gombe is leading the nomadic education-friendly state for obvious reason

Babdidi also noted that the Inuwa Yahaya administration in the state had been planning to increase the number of nomadic schools in the state by 100 per cent so as to absorb over 90,000 nomadic children of school age in the state.

In his speech, the Executive Secretary of the National Commission for Nomadic Education, Prof Bashir Usman, said every stakeholder had a stake in the affairs of their children education.

“Every stakeholder must be involved as it promotes school-community relationships and explores the best approaches to be adopted in the workshop to ensure a smooth implementation of the Nomadic Education programme,” he said.

He described the workshop as one of the series of carefully planned activities by the commission aimed at accelerating the achievement of Education for All, Sustainable Development Goals, Universalisation of Access to quality, functional basic education and other educational development benchmarks.

Also speaking, the Director Department of Social Mobilisation and Women Development National Commission for Nomadic Education, Dr Mohammed El-Nafaty, said the workshop which was organised by his department, is aimed at recognizing the role of SBMCs in schools governance and development through effective and efficient management strategies, which involves all stakeholders.

“The strategy adopted will accelerate the process of out-of- school children especially as it relates to the Nomadic Education Programme” he added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]