WTEC empowers 50 schoolgirls on technology skills
NO fewer than 50 schoolgirls from various secondary schools across the country were empowered on technology and engineering skills at the 12th edition of a technology camp organised by the Women’s Technology Empowerment Centre.

The programme, tagged, ‘She Creates Camp’, according to the organisers, is a residential science & technology education and mentoring camp designed to teach secondary schoolgirls from ages 13 to 17 how to create useful solutions for everyday living through the application of engineering and scientific concepts, programming, mobile application development and digital content development.

During the duration of the camp, the girls participated in technology workshops on electronics & digital circuits technologies (programmable integrated circuits), mechatronics (a blend of robotics, electronics and programming), computer programming with Python, website design using Mobirise, digital film production, and other co-curricular activities including financial literacy, arts & crafts, self defence, public speaking and gender & leadership.

Speaking during the grand finale at the Laureates College, Lagos on Saturday, the Executive Director, W.TEC, Mrs Oreoluwa Lesi, said the idea was to catch the girls young and prepare them as future technology leaders with a view to bridging the gap between male and female at the digital space.

Lesi added that this year’s edition, unlike the previous ones, comprised the Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics curriculum as a way of equipping the girls with technical skills to enable them become productively reliant as well as able to compete favourably with their counterparts at the global stage.

She explained that the long term goal of the camp was to inspire and equip the girls to start using and creating technology productively for learning, domestic, professional and leadership activities, adding that the exercise had empowered them with the needed skills to develop digital contents capable of providing solutions to technological, domestic and leadership needs of the society.

Lesi said, “This is the 12th edition of the camp and the aim is to inspire and equip the young girls to take up career in science and technology. It is a way of bridging the gap between the male and the female in the digital sphere. There are many opportunities in the digital space and these girls need to be prepared with the relevant skills to tap into it.

“The focus this year was on STEAM – Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Maths – and it is for our girls to learn more about building solutions to keep the society safe with technology. The long-term objective is to increase the number of women and girls working in science, technology, engineering, design & maths-related fields, as well as increase the number of girls and women using and creating technology for learning, professional and leadership activities.”

The programme, facilitated by Oracle, Sage Foundation and Swift Networks Limited, among others, saw the girls participating in career talk sessions, team-building exercises and excursions including panels on women in technology, women in engineering and women in medical & biological sciences.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]