Grammar lesson from Genevieve’s comment on xenophobia
Akeem Lasisi, [email protected]; 08163939335

Since about a week ago, ‘xenophobia’ has been the word on many lips. Even a lot of those who do not know its meaning have had to use it one way or the other. This is as a result of the anti-foreigners violence that erupted in South Africa, which stakeholders are still battling to resolve.

It is more than predictable that the multitude of comments and arguments sparked by the crisis would feature a lot of grammatical blunders. In normal online conversations, many of such errors manifest, let alone (not ‘talk less’!) of a circumstance defined by the raw emotions ignited by the inhumanity the victims have suffered. In effect, it has been a trying time for some of us who pay extra attention to the use of English even in comments on online posts.

Amid the xenophobia-fuelled errors, however, a consolation came five days ago. Behind the solace is star actress and producer, Genevieve Nnaji. In a post, in which she reacted to the attacks and the anxiety they caused, she used an expression that I could not but notice on a positive note. It is not because one had doubted her competence in the language, but because the expression flows in the heart of the subjunctive mood, which constitutes a big headache to millions of users of English – including some specialists.

Here is the Genevieve’s golden expression: ‘It’s time we believed in ourselves.’ You must have noted the ‘strangeness’ of the verb, ‘believed’ (in past tense), used with ‘It is’, which is in the present tense. Many people would, indeed, think the actress made a mistake here. They would argue that she ought to have used ‘believe’.

The point I am making is that only few people have mastered the use of the grammatical mood in ‘It is time we BELIEVED in ourselves. I have treated the usage on a number of occasions in this class but it is still a major issue. Consider the following and cultivate the usage accordingly:

It is time we believe in ourselves. (Wrong)

It is time we believed in ourselves. (Correct))

It is time every country do away with xenophobia. (Wrong)

It is time every country did away with xenophobia. (Correct)

That is the notorious subjunctive mood in action. It is the same principle that makes ‘If I were you, I would go to Kano tomorrow’ and ‘I hope he go next week’ to be correct – as against ‘If I am you, I will go to Kano tomorrow’ and ‘I hope he goes next week’ to be wrong!

There are two or more variants of the Genevieve’s expression, all of which still select the past tense. One starts with ‘It is high time’ while the other begins with ‘It is about time’:

READ ALSO: Will Falana’s magic wand free Sowore from DSS grip?

It is high time we believe in ourselves. (Wrong)

It is high time we believed in ourselves. (Correct)

It is high time President Buhari has a decisive meeting with the South African President. (Wrong)

It is high time President Buhari had a decisive meeting with the South African President. (Correct)

It is about time we believe in ourselves. (Wrong)

It is about time we believed in ourselves. (Correct)

It is about time I have my meal. (Wrong)

It is about time I had my meal. (Correct)

During the past lessons I earlier referred to, I pointed out that if you want an alternative where you will not express the absolute belief that the action ought to be done now, in which case you want to avoid the present tense plus the past tense within the same clause, you can go for ‘It is time to’:

It is time to believe in ourselves. (Correct)

It is time for us to believe in ourselves. (Correct)

This is the time for me to have my meal. (Correct)

The three clauses above are also correct since ‘to’ has been introduced. But in the ‘It is time’ or ‘It is high time’ style, you would note that ‘to’ is not used. You should thus use the past tense form of the relevant verb.

Answers to last week’s assignment

Prof. Gidado said he had no option … to punish the students.

(a) for (b) BUT (c) than (d) because.

Hardly had the visitor left … the child began to cry.

(a) WHEN (b) while (c) than (d) from

If I … Iwobi, I wouldn’t have moved to Everton.

(a) am (b) was to be (c) be (d) WERE

Those who got all the answers right

Khaleed Tijani, Qoyum Gbolahan, Akinfala Ibrahim, Olabanji Falilat, Folorunso Faoye, Japhlet B.V, Bayo Omodara, Adeniran Adebayo, Michael Abimbolu, Olaide Owomoyela, Aisha Salimon, Oludare Olufade, Muoka John, Pius Uduhirinwa, Femkas Ota, Lanre Sowunmi, Ifeayichukwu Ibekwe, Timothy Olufayo, Oladimeji Sunday, Arewa Oluwaseun, Kolawole Kareem, Aisha Salimon, Ayomuyiwa Ayoade, Aloko Emmanuel, Famoroti Castus, Iniobong Ukpong, Ogunlade Sunday, Olanrewaju Soname, Eniola Soname, Muraina Kazeem, Muogho Kingsley, Abiala Tayo, Okunade Olusina, Ekemode Ayomikun, Folorunsho Afeez, Nwogwu Sunday, Akbar Bello, Ahmed Oseni, Olawale Ayodeji, Familusi Gbolahan, M. Adelugba, Idongesit Ekpamfon, Olayinka Adesina, Fasooto Ademola, Charles Ekereke, Ademola Adedokun, Godwin Akpoghome, James Azibato, Mayowa Olubiyi, Olamide Soname, Akin Gandonu, Dickson Ogala, Toyin Oyewoga, Halimat Awonuga, Modupe Oladipupo, Folaranmi B.A, Olugbenga Adu, Mikairu G.Y, Douglas Missang, Blessing Aghojare, Paul Olukowade, Festus Obi, Ajayi Marvelous, Amoo Ganiyu, Leziga Mitee, Chukwudi Uruakpa, Atinuke Ibirogb a Ikechukwu Gabriel, Alonge Hannah, Alonge Moses, Enyidiya Ekeleme, Adekemi Adebambo, Johnbull Biakinogho, and Adebayo Joshua.

Those who also did well

Adesanya Demilade, Gaji Bukola, Abdwakil Ashafa, Tijani Amidu, Iyabo Ijagbemi, Goodluck Henry, Ayozil Adekunle, Abatan John, Olawale Lawal, E.C.Porbeni, Shittu Deborah, Akin Ajayi, Ojulari Eniola, Daniel Sofolahan, Adeleke Taiwo, Isiaka Ibrahim, Jejeloye Opeyemi, Okiemute Avworu, Ahisu Celestine, Ishola Toyin, Agbi Daniel, Shola M, Adeleye Funmilayo, Afolayan Kamilu, Rotimi Oyedele, Ayomide Ibironke, Adegboyega Michael, Muhammed Uthman, Robert Agboola, Matthew Ojeleye, Lasisi Morufu, Mary Bolanle, Chinasa Nneji, Dare Adediran, Josiah Abu and Kareem Babalola, Abolade Rasaq.

Homework

It is time the doctor … on the woman.

(a) operating (b) operates (c) operate (d) operated

I pray God … Nigeria.

(a) help (b) to help (c) is helping (d) helps

I met the painter … Victoria Island

(a) in (b) at (c) on (d) to

If I .. my way, I would be in the United States the following year.

(a) get (b) have (c) has (d) had

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]