MAPOLY rewards student for returning colleagues’ misplaced fees
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

The Management of Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta has said that it will pay tuition for a student, Aminat Olaleye, who returned her colleague’s misplaced school fees for one academic session.

MAPOLY Rector, Dr. Samson Odedina, disclosed this in a statement issued by the Public Relations Officer of the institution, Yemi Ajibola on Thursday.

Ajibola said the management would pay Olaleye’s tuition for one academic session as a mark of honour for her integrity.

He explained that Olaleye, a Higher National Diploma, accounting student, found cash of twenty thousand naira within the school premises and returned it.

According to Ajibola, Olaleye said she found a wallet contained the sum without any means of identification to trace the owner and returned the money to the leadership of Students Union of the Institution.

The statement read “upon the development, the executive of the Students’ Union, after painstaking efforts located the owner of the money, who claimed it was meant for his tuition and informed the Rector of the development.

The statement further read “Aminat said, I found the sum of N20,000 at MAPOLY Center for Entrepreneurship Development in August, without any means of identification.

“I know the money is meant for someone’s school fees. Immediately, what struck my heart was that, what situation would the owner of the money be and what if I was in that position. How would I feel losing my school fees?”

The Students’ Union leadership reportedly appreciated the student and conferred on her an Award of Integrity.

READ ALSO: Grammar lesson from Genevieve’s comment on xenophobia

The event, according to the statement, was held in the presence of other students during the final match of the Fresher’s Cup at the Sports Complex of the institution.

Ajibola further explained that the management took the decision to pay her tuition for one academic session as part of the efforts to encourage dignity and integrity among staff and students of the institution.

The PRO said the rector while announcing the decision, charged the students populace to emulate the feat displayed by Olaleye as good ambassadors of the institution.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]