Akwa Ibom seeks private sector intervention in education crisis
Patrick Odey, Uyo

Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State on Thursday called on private investors to intervene in the crisis confronting education subsector, adding that government alone cannot tackle the problems.

The governor stated this in Uyo, the state capital, while declaring open the first Akwa Ibom Education Summit/Exhibitions with the theme, Human Capacity Development for Sustainable Transformation of Persons and Society, organised by the State Ministry of Education.

He said, “We are determined to change the structure, the outlook and the content of the educational system in Akwa Ibom State. To me, education is an investment, it is not an expense.

“This education summit is to address a particular infrastructure that any state, any country must look forward to, which is what I call the soft infrastructure. It is not enough for us to concentrate on those physical and hard infrastructures.

“I must sit back with all stakeholders and we are going to create what I call a state of urgency in order to try this, because we want to create a structure that is enduring and is sustainable. I want to reassure you that we are committed and would reach that goal.

“We are determined but government alone may not be able to do it. Let corporate bodies and other individuals assist us. We can all have foundations too, even if is to provide us with chairs.

“The soft infrastructure is the human capacity. If you don’t build human capacity, we are wasting time, whatsoever we do cannot stand because whatsoever stands must stand on people. God’s gift to man is another man, so if you build man, you are already building a society”.

Emmanuel lamented the population explosion in the country, saying that it had rendered government’s investment in the education sector useless.

Stressing that he would no longer wait on the Federal Government for policy formulation again, he added, “When you hear a lot of problems in education, it is as if government is not doing anything. The answer is not that we are not doing something about it. The problem with Nigeria is that we never plan for the type of population explosion that is staring in our faces.

“When we were being warned as a country that our population is growing very fast, we were encouraging that we should do more. So because the population has now completely out grown the infrastructure, and then the growth in our income and our yield capacity is much lower than our growth in population, certainly, there are bound to be these problems and crisis in infrastructure.

“So what do we do? We must change tactic, approach and strategy. You cannot say we are the only country that has had this growth in population, no.

“I cannot be waiting as a governor for the curriculum from the Federal Government only to run a state that the population is staring at my face; I will not wait for that. I will not wait for the education policy up there for me to be able to move economically.

In his remarks, the commissioner of education, prof. Nse Essien told participants that the vision of government was to build excellent infrastructures across the state, provide high quality healthcare services, produce enough food to feed the citizens and JumpStart industrial revolution in the state through capacity building.

He said these visions cannot be achieved without proper alignment with the education sector in the state.

Esien said, “We cannot wait to design strategic education master plan to address our short, medium and long term human capital deficit in our dear state. We must without further delay aggressively embark on mass production of first class scientists, top rated engineers, top-notch medical personnel, Administrators, Accountants and professionals in all areas of human endeavour.”

He noted that our educational curriculum does not trained students for labour market and confirmed that such scenario informed the state government to confront the rots and reverse the trend of decay in the education system.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]