Day Waterman concerned about total development – Principal
Samuel Awoyinfa, Abeokuta

The Principal, Day Waterman College, Abeokuta, Mr. Stewart Cowden, has said that the school is concerned about the physical and mental development of its pupils.

He disclosed this during the eighth edition of the school’s inter-house sports held on the its playground.

He explained that the school management had packaged these into the curriculum in order to build rounded pupils not only academically sound but also physically fit.

He said early in the morning, the pupils engaged in exercise by participating in different sports like basket ball and football before they retired to their hostels and prepared for the day’s academic activities.

Cowden said the physical exercise would keep them fit and ensure alertness.

He said, “Some of the students took part in some of the track events, while some others took part in the field events like high jump and discuss.

“Some of them took part in the march past, some others took part in the choreographic display. In these activities, you can see individual performance and you can also see team spirit.

“The students are all boarders. So, early in the morning, they do exercise by engaging in any sport of their choice, it could basketball, volleyball or even football. They do this before retiring to the hostel to take their bath and their breakfast and then before they go for their classes.

On his own part, the Chairman of the event, Mr. Gbenga Shobo, who is a Deputy Managing Director, First Bank of Nigeria, said he was impressed by the performances of the pupils.

He called for the harnessing of the talents being groomed by the school, and nurturing of same to national and international stardom.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]