‘Education of children is key to Nigeria’s future’
The Proprietress of Rainbow College, Aseese, Lagos Ibadan-Expressway, Mrs. Oludolapo Odunlami, has said that the future of any country lies more in its children and youths than in any natural resources.

According to her, most countries that have developed pay extra attention to total upbringing of their children who are able to sustain the legacy.

Odunlami made this known recently while speaking on the essence of her commitment to the education of young ones and what has sustained her passion, 35 years after the establishment of her first school, Pampers Private School, Surulere, Lagos.

She said, “Our key motivation as well as staying power is the child. Giving the child a world-class education is our aim. In Nigeria, we talk about availability of resources that we have but our tomorrow is really the Nigerian child. That is why education ought to be our paramount focus.

“We should endeavour to train the Nigerian child to be a better person and add value to society. So any child that crosses the threshold of our school must be given top-notch education.”

Odunlami added that such commitment had continued to yield fruits as products of the school were doing well within and outside the country.

“As a school, we have been effective in the most way we can. As we train the students, we move with them. It is important to track our effectiveness so as to produce a good result,” she said.

The Principal of the school, Mr. Adeshina Okunubi, also noted that what he described as the state-of-the-arts facilities in the school, combined with an inclusive teaching method, aided its progress.

Okunubi said, “Rainbow College has its foundations in the Christian faith, but we respect and appreciate other religious beliefs our students may have. In a spiritual sense, we firmly believe that children can develop their strength of character and attain an absolute love for God.

“Our aim is to give nourishment to the minds, bodies and souls of our students by engaging them in guided social activities. With this guidance, our team assists our students in developing a spirit for healthy competition and selfless service. All of our students are readily encouraged to take advantage of the wide range of clubs and societies available, including the Swimming Club, Basketball Club, Athletics Club, Chess Club and Animation Club.

“As part of our criteria for picking our teachers, we look out for people that are trainable and teachable. Teachers are not meant to only teach, they must also be willing to learn. As key ingredients to the successful grooming of a child, the school ensures that its teachers have integrity and must be committed to the environment they are coming into because the teachers are expected to be role models for the students. They are important to the growth of the young ones.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]