AYIDEF unveils new education initiative
Chux Ohai

The African Youths International Development Foundation last Wednesday unveiled the Lagos State Education Initiative, an intervention project aimed at addressing some of the major challenges facing the education sector in the state.

The AYIDEF, in its mission statement, said that through the project it would build “an egalitarian society” where there would be equal participation in education, facilitate the “transition and completion of secondary education” of girls in Lagos State, and contribute to the attainment of two of the Millennium Development Goals, namely, achieving universal primary education and elimination of gender disparity in education at all levels by 2030.

The group went on to state that it planned to achieve these goals in Lagos through social mobilisation, advocacy for affordable education, by raising awareness against child labour and by adopting poverty reduction strategies, such as scholarships, subsidies, feeding, supply of uniforms and by introducing micro-enterprise programmes through strengthened partnerships.

In his keynote speech at the event, the President and Executive Director of the AYIDEF, Dr. Tunji Asaolu, said that in all the investments required to achieve sustainable development, none was more important than quality education for every child.

Highlighting the importance of good education to the society, he said, “In a knowledge-based world economy, a good education is vital for finding decent work, achieving good health, building functioning communities, developing the skills to be a dependable parent and growing up to be an engaged and responsible citizen.”

Asaolu, who is also Nigeria’s Representative and Chairperson, Social Affairs and Health Cluster Committee of the African Union Economic, Social and Cultural Council, identified the negative attitude of many parents to education and cultural factors as some of the biggest problems facing the education sector. He also described such barriers as the reason why the illiteracy level is high in some parts of the country, especially Lagos State.

He listed other challenges facing the sector as including poor quality primary and secondary education, shortage of qualified and competent teaching staff, increasing class sizes, strained infrastructure, limited teaching time, poorly paid teachers, rote learning, scarce and poor quality learning materials, as well as curricula that fail to meet the needs of the labour market and information.

He said, “To compete in a knowledge-based society, young people need access to higher education. But demands for higher education in Africa have also not been met, and public expenditure on higher education has declined and remains chronically under-funded. Notwithstanding impressive increases in tertiary education enrolment of more than 50 per cent since 1999, only a small share of the relevant age group has access to this level of education, with an enrolment rate of less than five per cent in 2004. I strongly believe that, this gap will be filled by LASEDI.”

He said that for the AFYIDEF to achieve its objectives in Nigeria, it needed the maximum cooperation of government, especially at the state level. Calling on the Lagos State Government to support and partner the group in its work, he added, “Through the support of the state government, I believe the AFYIDEF will advance socio-economic development in the areas of enhancing governance index survey analysis, capacity building framework, national monitoring and evaluations of CSO in Nigeria with a view to tracking development and other activities of non-state actors.

“The key expectation of this strategic partnership between the government and AFYIDEF is to increase measures of adding values to and improving the wellbeing of ordinary citizens, while building the structures for mass participation in governance.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]