We won’t condone cultism in Osun schools –SUBEB boss
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Permanent Secretary, Osun State Universal Basic Education Board, Mr. Fatai Kolawole, has said that primary and secondary school pupils in the state are being closely monitored by government to ensure they do not engage in cultism and other social vices.

Speaking on Thursday in Osogbo at a briefing held to herald the second edition of a cultural festival among schools in the state, Kolawole said the state government would continue to encourage its pupils to shun cultism, despite the fact that the vice hardly posed a serious challenge to schools in Osun.

He said the celebration, organised by SUBEB, was aimed at promoting the rich Yoruba cultural heritage.

He said, “Cultism is not a challenge in our schools in Osun State, but we are working to make sure that it does not spread here. We will not relax so that our children can remain focused on their goals.

“Cultism is evil and it destroys lives. But the ethos of Omoluabi is being taught in our schools and the pupils are imbibing it. We don’t have the challenge of cultism, but we won’t fold our hands and do nothing because of this.”

Kolawole said the programme for the fiesta would feature activities, such as traditional dance, ijakadi ( wrestling), display of local drums, singing, poetry recitation and many other cultural events.

He commended the Federal Government for its policy on the teaching of Mathematics and science subjects in Nigerian languages.

Disclosing that schools in Osun would in due course also teach pupils in the Yoruba language so as to enable them to understand the subjects better, he said, “Language is an integral aspect of culture. I can tell you that the state has engaged a professor and we are working with him on the use of Yoruba language to teach subjects in our schools.

“We have a man that we are working with and anytime from now we will begin to use Yoruba language to teach in our schools. It is a known fact that we learnt best with our mother tongue. “

The SUBEB permanent secretary said the state government had invested a lot in the education sector, in terms of physical infrastructure, boreholes for water provision, generators and computers to aid teaching and learning.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]