NUC boss seeks more commitment from varsities
Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt

The Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission, Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, has called on universities in the country to show more commitment to education rather than criticise the government.

Rasheed expressed the need for the universities to review their dedication to the growth of education in the country.

He spoke in Port Harcourt during the inauguration of the World Bank Africa Centre of Excellence for Oilfield Chemicals Research, a project financed by the World Bank for the University of Port Harcourt.

The NUC boss explained that the country stood to gain a lot if the universities should task themselves and do what was required of them for national development.

He noted that Nigeria’s underdevelopment might be traced to her failure to identify the relationship between quality knowledge and economic growth.

Rasheed also pointed out that the nations might not achieve the desired growth if they did not possess make policies that would make use of the efforts of the universities.

He said, “We must review our commitment to education. If the universities task themselves and ask themselves if they are doing what is expected of them, then they will move forward.

“We are quick to criticise government, but we have seen some lecturers absent themselves for half of a semester. Tertiary education has been recognised as the centrepiece of knowledge and countries must make policies to make use of the efforts of the universities.”

Rasheed expressed gratitude to the World Bank for choosing UNIPORT as one of the beneficiaries of the Africa Centre of Excellence in Oilfield Chemicals research, adding that the centre was already helping in the area of boosting human capacity.

In her remarks, the World Bank Africa Centre of Excellence Project Co-task team leader for Nigeria, Ms. Aisha Garba, stated that education was essential to the transformation of Nigeria and Africa in general.

Observing that the number of graduates had doubled within the last five years, Garba noted that access to tertiary education remained at five percent, describing it as one-fifth of the 25 per cent global average.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]