We’re concerned about physical, mental development of pupils – Principal
Samuel Awoyinfa, Abeokuta

The Principal of Day Waterman College, Abeokuta, Mr. Stewart Cowden, has said that the school is focused on the physical and mental development of its pupils.

Cowden disclosed this on the sidelines of the 2018 edition of the school’s inter-house sport competition held last Saturday.

He said the management of the college had included this in the curriculum in order to raise well-rounded pupils who are not only academically sound but also physically fit.

The principal noted that every morning, the pupils exercised by participating in different games, such as basketball and football, before preparing for the day’s academic activities.

Cowden said the physical activities would keep them fit and mentally alert by the time they returned to their classrooms to receive lectures.

He said, “Some of the pupils took part in track events and the rest participated in field events, such as high jump, long jump and discus, among others.

“While some of them took part in the march past, others took part in the choreographic display. In these activities, you can see individual performance and you can also see the team spirit.”

Cowden said that since the pupils were all in the boarding house, it was easy to mould them.

“The students are all boarders. So, early in the morning, they do exercise by engaging in any sport of their choice. It could basketball, volleyball or football, among others.

“They do this before retiring to the hostel to take their bath and eat breakfast before going for their lessons.

“Later in the evening, they still do exercise by engaging in different sports. We do not only attend to the academic needs of the pupils, but we also help them to hone their skills in athletics or any other sport of their choice.”

On his own part, the Chairman of the event, Mr. Gbenga Shobo, who is a Deputy Managing Director, First Bank of Nigeria, said he was impressed by the performances of the students who took part in the different races on the track and events on the field.

He called for the harnessing of the talents being groomed by the school, and nurturing of same to national and international stardom.

Other highlights of the event included couples’ race, siblings’ race and teachers’ race, among others.

At the end of it all, Purple House grabbed the first position with 953 points, Red House attained second position with 797 points and Yellow House was third-placed with 794 points.

Also, Blue House came fourth with 724 points, while the Green House came fifth with 599 points.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]