Benue varsity shut down as students protest
John Charles, Makurdi

The Benue State University authorities on Monday shut down the institution and asked the students to vacate the campus before 4pm.

The university, in a statement issued by its Registrar, Dr Mfaga Modom, said the closure was necessary to avoid a breakdown of law and order within and around the campus.

The closure followed a protest embarked on by the students against the institution’s Five Point Grading System.

The students had blocked entrances to the university located on the busy Makurdi/Gboko Expressway, as early as 6 am. They were seen chanting slogans and calling on the management of the institution to do away with the policy on the grading system and return to the old practice of calculating Cumulative Grade Aggregate Point.

Armed security personnel, comprising the Police, Civil Defence and the Department of State Security were drafted to the university to ensure that there was no damage to facilities on the campus.

A 300-level student in the Department of Political Sciences, Peter Agbo, said the university authorities began the implementation of the new grades without notifying the students.

Agbo alleged that the school wanted to implement the policy in order to victimise some students, who were not in the good books of some lecturers. He disclosed that about 150 students, believed to fall into such category, had been penciled down a review of their Cumulative Grade Aggregate Point, based on the new arrangement.

“To me, this is not too good for some students, particularly those in 400 level who are about to graduate from the university,” he said.

But, in a separate statement, Modom said the management of the university was aware of the grievances of the students, especially as it relates to the Five Point Grading System.

She said the institution’s Senate had set up a committee to consider the appeal by the students for the calculation of their previous results from the Four Point Grading System to Five Point Grading System and submit its recommendations.

Modom also said the committee had requested and received memoranda from the university community and met severally before the students embarked on their protest.

She added that the committee’s report would be considered at the forthcoming meeting of the Senate scheduled to hold on Thursday, September 5, 2019.

The registrar also maintained that the students must acknowledge the fact that the university had already complied with the National Universities Commission’s directive by reverting to the 5 Point Grading System, with effect from the 2018/2019 academic session.

The statement read in part, “In the interim, the university management met the students and informed them of the efforts of Senate and appealed for their patience to enable the committee to complete the assignment.

“Management also, through the Dean of Students issued a circular informing the students of its efforts.

“The closure of the university gates by students on account of this issue is therefore unwarranted. Management wishes to reiterate that it can only consider their appeal when the report of the Senate Committee is received.

“Management, therefore, appeals to the students to be law abiding and respect constituted authority, policies and properties of the University and allow due process to prevail”, the statement read in part.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]