Disabled children need individualised school curriculum – Foundation
Friday Olokor, Abuja

The Chief Executive Officer of Zeebah Foundation, Dr. Julia Ejiogu, has urged schools in Nigeria to make plans for an individualised curriculum that will take care of people with special needs.

She also advised the Federal Government to initiate policies that would assist people with disabilities and autism in the country.

Addressing journalists during the inauguration of the Zeebah Foundation in Abuja, Ejiogu stressed the need for government and stakeholders in the education sector to inject more funds into the study of special education in order to care for students with special needs.

The event had the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mele Kyari; a former governor of Cross Rivers State, Liyel Imoke and other personalities in attendance.

Ejiogu also noted that autism was on the increase in the country, adding that Zeebah Foundation had taken care of over 100 children with the challenges of autism in the country

She said, “The government and stakeholders, including schools, should do something drastic about people with special needs. Remember that in most schools, people study special education. So we should encourage the institutions to put more money into special education.

“The government should make policies that will help people with disabilities generally, and not only autism. For instance, schools should be encouraged to make plans for an individualized curriculum. Do you know that we do not have individualized curriculum for disabled children?

“They are made to take the same examination and, in fact, if they cannot study, that is their business. Let the government make that a priority in the education sector.

“Let the government make a law that children should be screened for autism from 18 months because in the United States, that is how most of the cases are picked up. There is a test that that they do when they are 18 months.”

The chairman/Founder of the Zeebah Foundation, Nzan Ogbe, said the organisation came into existence because there was no advocacy in the area of austism in Nigeria.

He said, “What we talk about is advocacy. Advocacy is critical to bringing awareness to this issue and legislation should be passed that create support for people living with autism in Nigeria.

“I don’t want to call it a form of disability but they need to be inclusive. In a lot of schools in Nigeria, there is no provision for children living with autism, so they cannot really go to school because of their condition”

“You see, people with autism struggle with social skills, which may make it difficult to interact with others. They might seem shy or unfriendly, but, that’s just because he or she is unable to communicate their desires.

“There are so many incidences. You go to a public place with a child that is in the spectrum and because of many things, in some cases children don’t like taking light, it might make them react violently or something, we are living with it like every day.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]