ABIAPOLY workers set for showdown with management
Sunday Nwakanma, Umuahia

There is an indication that members of the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Polytechnics and the Non-Academic Staff Union, Abia State Polytechnic chapters, respectively, are spoiling for a showdown with the management of the institution for owing them over 12 months’ salaries.

The workers, in a statement issued to journalists on Monday in Aba, capital of the state, at the end of a joint congress held at the ICT Auditorium of the polytechnic, gave the management of the institution till September 12, to pay the workers their salary arrears or be prepared for an indefinite strike.

According to the release, which was signed by Comrade Aforole Nnenna and Comrade Emmanuel Eze (NASU Chairperson and branch secretary) and Comrade Nwachukwu Chuks (SSANIP chairman) and Comrade Ugbaja Fred (SSANIP Secretary, Abia Poly chapter), respectively, the unions also asked the management to shelve any planned restructuring/downsizing of staff until all salaries are fully paid and all related issues are discussed and agreed upon by all the stakeholders (Unions and Management).

The unions also demanded that all outstanding promotions from 2016 to 2018 to be released with full financial implications. They insisted that their 2015 promotions released must also be given “financial implication and other related issues arising therein harmonised.”

The congress, while calling on Abia Polytechnic management to remit in full all NASU, SSAANIP, and ASUP (Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics) check-off dues which the unions claimed had been deducted by the management, frowned at the continued withholding of cooperative funds by the management.

The statement read in part,“This is having an adverse financial effect on cooperators who had saved their personal salaries for future use. Therefore, congress demands that management should release this fund with immediate effect to ameliorate the suffering of cooperators.”

No member of the school management could be reached for a reaction as of the time this report was filed.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]