Corps members’ new allowance starts with minimum wage — NYSC
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The National Youth Service Corps has said that it will increase the monthly allowance of its members as soon as the Federal Government begins payment of the new minimum wage.”

The NYSC Director-General, Brig-Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim, stated this on Monday, while assuring corps members nationwide that efforts were being made to ensure their adequate welfare.

According to a statement issued by the NYSC Director of Press and Public Relations, Mrs Adenike Adeyemi, on Monday, the DG spoke at the Lagos State Orientation Camp, Iyana Ipaja, while interacting with corps members.

Adeyemi said, “Corps members have been advised that their monthly allowance would be increased immediately the Federal Government starts the payment of the new minimum wage to all public servants nationwide.

“The NYSC DG said this, adding that efforts are in top gear at all levels to ensure adequate welfare for all corps members. He, however, advised them not to embark on unauthorised journeys that may endanger their lives as such would also earn them sanctions from the NYSC.

“The DG warned that violators of the NYSC bye-laws will be dealt with in line with NYSC rules.”

According to the release, the DG added, “Study the byelaw, including the NYSC Act and be law-abiding. Don’t participate in politics. Avoid religious and tribal differences. You must also avoid rumour peddling through the social media. Instead, serve as agents of change and national unity.”

Meanwhile, the NYSC noted that it recorded the death of one corps member, Ibrahim Okanlawon, in Ondo State, during the 2019 general elections.

Adeyemi also stated this in an interview with our correspondent, while reacting to the 35 dead or injured ad hoc workers listed by the Independent National Electoral Commission for insurance benefits.

Our correspondent had reported on Monday that INEC said the insurance benefits of 35 ad hoc workers, dead or injured during the elections, were still being processed.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]