Foundation faults NUC on varsities’ establishment
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

An international education foundation, Scholarship Aid Initiative, has faulted the Nigerian University Commission’s policy on the establishment of universities

The initiative said the policy had contributed largely to the strenuous and expensive educational system existing in Nigeria.

The African Regional President of the initiative, Dr Adebayo Oluwatosin, at a stakeholders’ forum and award presentation held in Abeokuta, capital of Ogun State.

Addressing the participants at the forum with the theme, ‘Graduate unemployment problems in Nigeria: Causes and the way out’, Adebayo called for a review of the policy, urging the stakeholders to go back to the basics.

The regional president, who described the commission’s policy as worrisome , said that a situation where government would request 100 hectares of land, N200million in bank draft, N1million application fee, N5million processing fee, aside other fees, as prerequisite for the establishment of a university, should be stopped.

He urged the Federal Government to make the establishment of a university easy, adding that in developed countries, a building could be used to start a university.

Adebayo also recommended that the government should start financing private universities to make the tuition fees affordable for Nigerian students in such institutions.

He said, “We have talked to the government. Our problem is the system and until the government changes the system, we may not be out of this problem. The government knows the right thing to do, but it will not do it.

“The government should make the establishment of universities easy. In developed nations, a building can be used to start a university, although it might be specialised.

“The policy must change, Let us go back to the basics. Let the government start by financing private universities so that their tuition fees can be reduced”.

While speaking on the contributions of the initiative to the educational sector in Nigeria, Adebayo said the group had concluded plans to pay tuition fees of 4,000 University and Polytechnic students across the country.

He explained that the initiative, which started in 2007, has since paid the tuition fees of about 8,000 students across tertiary institutions in the country.

He also said the initiative was moved into the humanitarian service when it discovered that many brilliant students had been forced to discontinue their tertiary education either at the point of entry or in the middle of their educational sojourn.

He said, “Many brilliant students are on the street today hawking. Some are involved in illegal activities because of lack of money to send them to school.

“Scholarship Aid Initiative, a non-governmental organisation, took a look at this problem and took it upon itself to make sure that those, who are willing to study among these children, gain admission to study the courses of their choice without changing their careers.

“Our government has failed us. Many promises have been made yet nothing has been done.

“This is a free programme. We don’t charge any fee from anybody. All the children need to do is to pass our examination.”

Speaking on unemployment, Adebayo begged the Federal Government to provide stable electricity so as to lure investors into the country.

He said, “Talking about unemployment, when there is no light in the country, how do you expect investors to come in? This issue of lack of power has pushed many big companies out of this country.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]