Education capable of solving Nigeria’s challenges – EU
Dayo Ojerinde

The Head of the European Union Delegation to Nigeria, Ambassador Ketil Karlsen, has said that access to better education plays a key role in solving development challenges in Nigeria.

Karlsen spoke at an event organised by the Junior Chamber International, Nigeria and the United Nations to commemorate the 2019 International Youth Day held recently in Lagos.

He said, “For me, there is no solution to the development challenges of Nigeria without having fundamental and better access to education and better quality of education.

“Nigerian students deserve full access to digitisation and modern technologies. We are inaugurating programmes for education, specifically in the North East. Addressing a total of 400,000 students, making sure the most vulnerable groups get better access to Education. We have set aside 22 billion euros to invest in jobs and opportunities in Africa.”

The National President, Junior Chamber International Nigeria, Ms Adetola Juyitan, while speaking on the theme, Transforming Education; Rethinking the present, noted that the youth have a significant role to play in providing the needed solutions to the problem of inclusiveness and access to quality education across the country regardless of their background.

“Youths must begin to embrace a digital mindset if they are really interested in causing any change in our society. They all must rise above their present holdbacks and challenge themselves to take on new actionable ideas that are in tune with the reality of the present age,” she said.

Also, the Director, United Nations Information Centre, Mr Ronald Kayanga, said the commemoration of the International Youth Day forms part of the United Nations agenda to support the youth.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]