UNIUYO alumni condemn cult attacks on students
Patrick Odey, Uyo

The University of Uyo Alumni Association has condemned the recent attacks on students of the institution by suspected cultists.

The association, in a statement by its President, Prof Gabriel Umoh, and the Secretary, Dr Jude Iwok, on Monday, said the cultists broke into a hostel occupied by female students and returned the next day to raid another hostel.

The statement described the development as an indication that security had “hit an all-time low” in the institution, with its attendant implications.

The association, it added, called on the management to tackle the situation and prevent it from degenerating to an unmanageable proportion.

The statement reads in part, “We have watched with dismay the growing insecurity situation within the university and its environs. From snatching of phones from students at any hour of the day, the invasion of hostels and heightened cult activities, the state of insecurity in the institution has reached an alarming proportion.

“The recent invasion of female hostels twice in one week is a clear indication that the insecurity in the school has hit an all-time low, with all its attendant negative implications.

“We are deeply worried that hoodlums would have such leeway into hostels, rob students of their belongings and returned the next day to raid another female hostel with impunity.

“We condemn in totality the free reign of crime, which has become a recurring decimal in the University of Uyo. We call on the university authorities to be more proactive, sure-footed and decisive in tackling this clear and present danger before it degenerates to something that cannot be managed anymore”.

The statement also urged the school authorities to beef up security within the institution, especially around the hostel area, to prevent the recurrence of such incidents.

It called on the university authorities to take advantage of the proscription of cultism by Governor Udom Emmanuel to arrest those involved in the crimes and hand them to the appropriate authorities for prosecution.

The statement urged the students to remain calm and be vigilant and go about their studies without any fear as the Federal Government had pledged do everything possible to address their plight.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]