Avoid drugs, other vices, VC advises freshers
Patrick Odey, Uyo

The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Uyo, Prof Enefiok Essien, has advised newly admitted students of the institution to stay away from cultism, drug addiction and examination malpractice, as well other vices.

The vice-chancellor said the institution had zero tolerance for all kinds of anti-social behaviour and its students must strive to indulge in healthy competition.

Essien, said this during a event tagged, Students’ Freshmen Talk, and organised by the University Women Association at the Onyeama Oguchukwu Hall, University of Uyo, Town Campus, with the theme, ‘Academic Success: The Imperative of a Good Beginning.’

The vice-chancellor, who was represented by the Vice-Dean, Students Affairs, Dr Etafia Ekanem, also advised the students to take advantage of the presence of qualified and competent teaching staff in the university to harness their potentials.

He said, “I am challenging you to soar like eagles. In this university, we have qualified and well-placed teachers who will help you to harness your potentials. I want to see all of you here in the next four or five years for the second leg of your journey.

“To achieve this goal, you must be diligent and stay away from examination malpractices, cultism, drugs and other vices.”

In her welcome remarks, the President of the University Women Association, Mrs Rosaline Essien, urged the students to be of good conduct, resist pressure to join questionable clubs and adhere strictly to the university’s dress code and rules.

She said that, as mothers, the members of the women association felt it was imperative to interface with the new students on some of their rights and obligations on campus.

Essien, who is the wife of the vice-Chancellor, urged the freshers to be serious with their studies, which she described as the only way to achieve success in the university.

She said, “The University of Uyo has stood out over the years as a fertile ground for the sowing of good seeds. It stands out among other universities in the country as a brand, which you should protect.

“I should like to stress at this point that a significant aspect of your success depends on the composition and quality of your friends.

“He who walks with the wise grows wise, but a companion of fools suffers harm. So, the best and most rewarding fraternity is a studious association.

“The university exists for the advancement of knowledge through teaching and research. Rather than be a part of the competition in violence through cultism, you should strive to indulge in the competition for excellence, scholarship and intellectual growth.

“It is quite sad to note that some of the people roaming the nooks and crannies of the university are not real students. They have nothing to offer other than distraction and confusion. I implore you all, as freshmen, to unite against the unwarranted influences that threaten your collective security.’’

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]