Oyo to educate 170,000 almajiris, hawkers
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

Oyo State Government has expressed its readiness to use the Better Education Service Delivery take-off grant to educate about 170, 536 out-of-school children in 23 local government areas and to ensure their retention in schools.

The Chairman, State Universal Basic Education Board, Dr Nureni Adeniran, said this after a two-day interactive session held in Ibadan on the implementation of World Bank-assisted BESDA for all, on Monday.

Adeniran reiterated Oyo State Government’s resolve to enrol out-of-school children in public schools, saying the programme would cater for hawkers and almajiris in the State.

“Despite all the hiccups, I strongly believe the essence of BESDA, which is to effectively take all the out-of-school children off the streets and draw them back to schools, will be accomplished in Oyo State,” he said.

He stated that the state government would ensure that a total of 62, 733 hawkers were taken back to school while 107, 803 almajiris would be taken off the streets in the Oke-Ogun area of the state.

He added that the board had adopted strategies that would ensure that all out-of-school-children returned to school before year 2022.

“Oyo State as one of the participating states will ensure that all out-of-school-children are brought back to schools within the years of the programme implementation in the country as a whole,” he stated.

The Head, Coordination Support Team, BESDA, Iro Umar, said Oyo State had a good team to implement the BESDA project.

Oyo State Government will receive an initial BESDA grant of $3m to commence the programme in Ona-ara, Kajola, Surulere, Saki West, Akinyele, Olorunsogo, Iseyin, Saki East, Oyo West, Ogbomosho South, Ogbomosho North and Iwajowa.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]