Youths seek end to sexual harassment in schools
Chima Azubuike, Gombe

The youth in Gombe State on Monday, at an event organised by Care for Life in Cham, in the Balanga Local Government Area, expressed their misgivings on issues constituting an obstacle to change in the education sector.

Speaking at the event, the Executive Director, Care for Life, Mr Peters Placidus, described transformative education as relevant, qualitative, accessible, equitable and inclusive.

Placidus said, “It is amplified by SDG4 and underlines that education must meet the social and economic needs of the changing times and be accessible to all, addressing special educational needs including those of persons with disability. “This is central to achieving sustainable development. On this occasion of International Youth Day, I urge all stakeholders in government, civil society, international partners and the organised private sector to prioritise education, the greatest development multiplier and salvager of the dignity of humanity.”

A participant, named Ruth Bitrus, said it was unfortunate that some lecturers, who should impart knowledge, indulged in illicit romantic relationships with their female students.

Bitrus said “As we celebrate World Youth Day, with the theme, ‘Transforming education’, to make education inclusive and accessible for all youths, it is important to note that lecturers must desist from having unhealthy relationship with female students as it goes a long way in distracting the student.”

The project team lead, Mr. Daniel Samaila, called for an end to illicit affairs between lecturers and students. He said, “There is a need to provide youths qualitative education, irrespective of gender. We expect to have agents of change across the various levels. Students will never concentrate if they engage in amorous affairs with their lecturers.”

Another participant, Jethro Abubakar, said that to transform education, there should be more investments in technology.

Also, a third participant, Wisdom Dauda, pointed out the need for female students to dress in a manner that would be less attractive to their lecturers in order to avoid unwanted attention. “Female students have roles to play in ending unnecessary relationships” he said.

In his remarks, the Monitoring and Evaluation officer, Bitrus Yila, explained that education facilitates social interaction where learners are at the centre in designing the learning process. “Education must inspire curiosity and encourage exploration in learners,” he said.

Parents and children were among those who attended the event. Placards displayed by participants at the end of the event, variously read: “Education is a development multiplier,” “Youths are the productive Workforce; educate them,” “Equitable education for all,” “Our youths are the essential models”, “Accessible education for all” and “Relevant and inclusive education for all”.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]