Uniuyo VC, others bag NIM awards
Patrick Odey, Uyo

The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Uyo, Prof Enefiok Essien and 13 other eminent Nigerians on Saturday received the Nigerian Institute Of Management Best Management Practitioners Award.

The award ceremony was the climax of the South-South Zonal Management Summit held at Watbride hotel, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, with the theme ‘Imperative of effective security management for sustainable development’.

Speaking at the event, the South-South zonal chairman of NIM, Emmanuel Okafor, said the goal of the summit derived from the prevailing security challenges of armed robbery, kidnapping and herdsmen attacks and a need to proffer solutions to them.

Okafor explained that in honouring Essien, the committee took a critical look at the academic year in the University of Uyo and observed that the system was stable and without a single crisis. “Since the theme of the summit focused on security and the institution was secure, we decided to give him the award on,” he said.

Okafor added that the essence of the awards was to x-ray the security situation in the South -South geo political zone and look at what should be done to stem the tide, stressing that it was not an academic exercise but a research mechanism to address the security challenges facing the nation.

Responding on behalf of the other recipients, Essien promised that they would continue to do their best to uphold the principles, tenets and values that the institute stands for at all times.

He told the gathering that for that reason, the university had always sponsored its staff to participate in the NIM’s programmes and activities.

Stressing that the only way to improve is to imbibe best practices, Essien urged the institute to always look up to the University for Assistance.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]