Plateau candidate with best WASSCE result gets scholarship
James Abraham, Jos

Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State has offered automatic scholarship up to university level to Movel Wokrit for emerging the best candidate from the state in the 2019 WASSCE and JAMB examinations with 9A1s and 323 points, respectively.

The governor said since Wokrit had indicated that he wanted to study Medicine, the Plateau State Government would fund his education in any academic discipline of his choice.

Lalong said this in a statement issued by his Director of Press Affairs, Simon Macham, while receiving the beneficiary in his office at the Rayfield Government House in Jos on Thursday.

The governor also noted that the exceptional performance of the student had brought to the fore the enormous human talent and gifts, which must be thoroughly harnessed in the state.

The statement read in part, “The state government will continue to identify and sponsor such exceptional students, whose parents cannot afford to pay their fees, to pursue their dreams in institutions and courses of their choice.

“Governor Lalong reiterated that his rescue administration will continue to invest in education by rebuilding old schools and constructing new ones, as well as training and retraining teachers while improving their welfare for better performance”

The statement added that Lalong commended to Wokrit’s parents for instilling good character, the virtue of hard work and commitment in their son. It said that the governor also appreciated the proprietor of Christian Royal College, Sabon Barki, which is Wokrit’s alma mater, Chief Garba Pwul (SAN), and the management and staff of the school for providing the right learning environment that facilitated the exceptional feat.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]