Poor funding threatens functional education – ACCERS boss
The Chairman, Accounting Education and Research Services, Mrs Morenike Babington-Ashaye, has identified poor funding, lack of policy implementation and lack of infrastructure as major threats to efforts aimed at achieving a functional education in Nigeria.

Babington-Ashaye said these factors had prevented Nigerians from competing favourably with their counterparts around the world.

She stated this in Lagos on Tuesday at the 2019 edition of the Town Hall Meeting of Stakeholders in Education, which was organised by the United People Global and ACCERS, in collaboration with the Lagos Education District III and themed, ‘Towards a greater Lagos community conversation.’

She said, “Adequate funding and proper policy implementation are inevitable if Nigerians must compete globally with their counterparts. Government must use tax payers’ money judiciously to achieve this with adequate allocation and release of fund. Government should adopt innovative techniques in funding education as this is the bedrock of any economy.

Babington-Ashaye also explained that the education sector in the country needed 21st century facilities in order to inject the best skills to enable Nigerians acquire relevant skills and compete globally.

She added, “The UPG2019 Towards A Greater Lagos Community Conversation is aimed at engaging the citizens to respond to the executive priorities of Lagos State and for people to lead and take responsibility for the actions needed.

“Parents, corporate organisations and wealthy individuals must also come to the aid of the sector for it to develop and grow. I crave the indulgence of the government to streamline policy for the sector. Education for all is the responsibility of all. As government plays their own part by taking radical measures that will bring sound and quality education for all and sundry, parents, guardians and teachers are expected to play their parts.

“The private sector and other stakeholders should co-operate with the government by supporting the education system through financial and material assistance. This should serve as part of their individual and corporate social responsibility so that the education sector can contribute to the provision of quality manpower for the economy.”

Also speaking, the Chief Executive Officer, W-Holistic Business Solutions, Mrs. Olanrewaju Oniyitan, said the government should be committed to adequate funding of education through appropriate budgetary allocation for the sustenance of education in the country.

She stated that government should consider an upward review of the education budget to meet up with the 26 per cent allocation recommended by United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation.

Also speaking, a Director at the Lagos State Education District III, Mr. Adeyemi Adebayo, said the poor performance of the education sector in Nigeria had become very worrisome.

He stated that findings showed that poor funding, lack of political will, lack of continuity of programmes and corruption were some of the major challenges facing the sector.

Stressing that the situation had hindered national development, Adebayo warned that until urgent action is taken to review Nigeria’s education system, its national aspirations would continue to be compromised.