NUC okays Law, Medicine at Novena varsity
Fisayo Odumuyiwa

The National Universities Commission has given the nod to Novena University, Ogume, Delta State to further develop its colleges of Medical Sciences, Law and Ph.D in Public Health.

This was made public by the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof Godwin Nduka, during a recent briefing, where he also disclosed that the university achieved 100 per cent in the last accreditation exercise carried out by the commission.

Nduka said, “The NUC, after a successful verification visit of the university’s human and material resources has approved Medical, Law and Postgraduate programmes for Novena University. We are now running programmes in the School of Basic Medical Sciences in Doctor of Optometry, Anatomy, Physiology, Medical Laboratory Science, Pharmacology, preparatory to transition to Medicine, Nursing, Pharmacy and Dentistry, as enormous resources are pouring in to give the students adequate and Internationally standard quality education.

“The postgraduate programmes approval consolidates the initial programmes in the Postgraduate School which will now offer PGD, M.Sc. and Ph.D in Intelligence and Security Studies, specialising in Cybercrime and Information Security, Criminology and Forensics.

“Other postgraduate programme are; Terrorism, Policing and Security, Fraud Investigations and other departments, as Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Sociology, Mass Communications, Political Science, Biochemistry, Chemistry and Analytical Chemistry.”

Nduka, while explaining the institution’s quest in meeting with its mandate of complementing the public universities, pointed out that the university had continued to expand its frontiers in the provision of unique programmes introduced in the Nigerian niversity system of education.

He added, “With our recently signed international Memorandum of Understanding with Virginia International University, USA for teaching partnerships, academic collaborations, students and staff exchanges as well as local programmes delivery, Nigerian youths are in for the best.

“Considering the giant stride of the institution, Delta State Government in its commitment to building a healthy state and create entrepreneural opportunities for the youths, has also signed a MoU with the Novena University for the use of its medical facilities for students’ training,” the VC said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]