AdoPoly seeks degree awarding status
Abiodun Nejo, Ado-Ekiti

The Chairman, Governing Council, Federal Polytechnic, Ado-Ekiti, Chief Austin Edeze, has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to upgrade the institution to a degree awarding institution.

Edeze said, “We have the requisite facilities that qualify this polytechnic to be upgraded to a degree-awarding institution.”

He added that the council, management, staff and students of the institution would be glad if the upgrade could be done during the President’s tenure.

The council chairman made the request on Saturday during the 17th combined convocation of the institution, where 16,786 full time and part-time students for five sessions were awarded National Diploma and Higher National Diploma.

Edeze assured the staff and students of the institution of the council’s “unwavering cooperation in our collective drive towards the attainment and sustenance of academic excellence”.

Edeze, who lauded the achievements of the current leadership of the institution, said “the various innovative ideas of the Rector will in no distant future transform this polytechnic to world class status”.

He lamented that 400 hectares of polytechnic land had been encroached and was still being encroached, thereby leaving the polytechnic community exposed to insecurity.

He said, “One of the greatest challenges we are facing is the aggressive and consistent encroachment and trespassing on the polytechnic land by members of the host community”.

The council chairman called for support from members of the public and corporate organisations in the provisions of facilities, such as lecture theatres, workshops, laboratories, access roads, hostel accommodation and the establishment of endowments for the award of prizes or foundation for the benefit of our indigent students”.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]