WAEC boss, Adenipekun, emerges president of AEAA
Chux Ohai

The Head of the Nigeria Office of the West African Examinations Council, Mr Olu Adenipekun, has emerged as the new President of the Association for Educational Assessment in Africa.

Adenipekun was elected at the 37th annual conference of the association recently held in Abuja.

Some crucial resolutions were made during the conference, which lasted four days. It was agreed, among others, that examining bodies should endeavour to embrace ICT based innovative approaches in the operations and assessment practices.

A communiqué issued at the end of the conference also indicated that delegates urged the AEAA to strengthen its capacity building programme to support the upcoming innovative approaches in member countries.

The document also reads, “Educators and assessment experts should consider reviewing the current ways of teaching, learning and assessment to ensure that meaningful learning takes place to counter the scourge of examination malpractices.

“Educational and Examining organisations must consider exploring, developing, adapting and or adopting various ICTs based solutions to promote meaningful teaching and learning, and enhance their integrity, efficiency and effectiveness;

Innovations in assessment and education should be driven by research findings. “Therefore, education and assessment institutions must consider establishing well-resourced research units that will use appropriate methodologies, suitable statistical and qualitative analyses and provide information to support innovations.”

In his acceptance speech, Adenipekun promised to place the AEAA at the centre of education for the African child and to make an impact in such a way as to transform the association into a reference organisation in the area of assessment and testing.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]