Michael Okpara varsity graduates 33 veterinary doctors
The Veterinary Council of Nigeria on Thursday issued probation licences to 33 fresh graduands of Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike in Abia.

The Acting Registrar of the council, Dr Josiah Kantiyok, in a statement warned the graduands on the dangers of engaging in unethical conducts.

Kantiyok told them that council reserved the right to withdraw their licence should there be any negative report on any of them.

The President, Nigeria Veterinary Medical Association, Prof. Bello Agaie, charged the graduands to abide by the ethics of the profession in the discharge of their duty.

“Ensure that you register your premises in accordance with the law wherever you practice as well as obey laid down regulations.

“I want to assure you that the association will stand behind you whenever the need arises,” Agaie, a professor of Toxicology at Uthman Dan Fodio University, Sokoto, said.

The Vice Chancellor of MOUAU, Prof. Francis Otunta, congratulated the graduands and charged them to move into the field with confidence and put their knowledge to optimal use.

Otunta, represented by the Deputy VC (Academic), Prof. Madu Iwe, told the graduands to utilise the knowledge and skills they acquired to provide solutions to problems facing animal health and livestock industry in the country.

Iwe said the university management has supported all programmes and activities directed toward ensuring adequate manpower for the training of veterinary doctors in the institution.

The Dean of the Faculty, Prof. Madubuike Eze, expressed confidence in the quality of the graduands and urged them to be good ambassadors of the college.

News Agency of Nigeria reports that 25-year-old Veronica Eze received different prizes for emerging the overall Best Graduating Student of the college.

She emerged the Best Graduating Student in eight subject areas, beating Uchenna Benson, who was best in five areas and Nelson Okpara, who was the best in Veterinary Pathology.

She was offered automatic employment at the end of her one year national youth service in the university.

In her response, the visibly elated Eze gave gratitude to God, her parents and the university for their support.

A major highlight of the ceremony was the conferment of the Pathfinder award on three prominent Nigerians for their contributions to livestock farming.

The awardees included former Dep. Governor of Abia, Mr Acho Nwakanma; Sen. Athan Achonu and Prof. Charles Adisa of Abia State University Teaching Hospital, Aba.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]