School cults: Lagos SUBEB seeks LNSC’s help
The Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board on Thursday solicited the support of the Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Agency in curbing cultism and other social vices in primary schools in the state.

Dr. Abdul Ganiyu Shopeyin, the State Chairman of SUBEB, sought for the partnership when the board visited the LNSCA headquarter’s Safety Arena in the Oshodi area of Lagos.

Shopeyin said that SUBEB was saddled with the responsibility of managing public primary schools in the state and ensuring that the lives of pupils and property of the schools were safe.

He lamented that the rate of cult related activities in primary schools in the state was alarming.

“It is hard to note that we have observed cultism in primary schools. Apart from this, kidnapping and other crimes are also affecting primary school pupils,” he said.

The chairman added that the board deemed it fit to synergise with the agency with a view to ensuring that the operatives had direct contact with primary schools to tackle cultism and other inherent vices.

He urged the LNSA to fashion out strategies that would allow its members render assistance in dousing the threat of cultism and other vices in schools.

In his response, LNSA Chairman, DIG Israel Ajao ( rtd ), who lamented the challenge of shortage of manpower in the agency, promised to fashion out ways to grant SUBEB ‘s request.

Ajao said that the manpower shortage was due to deaths, resignation and abscondment of officers.

“The manpower of the agency has dropped from its initial 5,700 to 5, 603 which is not enough to cover a densely populated state like Lagos according to United Nations Standard,” he said.

He said that the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, had promised to meet the challenge of manpower shortage and other challenges facing the agency.

Ajao promised that operatives of the LNSC would monitor primary schools at critical hours, which include resumption time, closing time, during the end of the term activities and sporting activities.

Chief Tunde Aboyade, LNSA Board member representing Ikeja Division, said that with the establishment of contact with primary schools’ officials, formation of security clubs was feasible.

He said this would allow LNSC operatives the opportunity to go into schools to give lectures and gather information.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]