TETFund earmarks N100bn for research in tertiary institutions
Peter Dada, Akure

The Provost, Adeyemi College of Education Ondo, Dr Samuel Akintunde, has said the Federal Government allocated N100bn to boost research in tertiary institutions across the country.

According to him, the fund is set aside through the Tertiary Education Trust Fund and dedicated as National Research Fund with the aim of boosting the academic development and enhancing people’s skills in project proposal writing and research activities.

Akintunde made the disclosure at a seminar held on the campus of the institution. The seminar was titled ‘Proposal Writing.’

He said, “The Federal Government is interested in boosting research activities in tertiary institutions in the country and it has joined the rest of the world to acknowledge the fact that you cannot improve your society without research

“So, a lot of money is now being pumped into research work. Over N100bn have been earmarked now by the Federal Government under TETFund as National Research Fund.”

While urging teaching and non-teaching staff of the college, to constantly seek self-improvement through acquisition of more knowledge, the provost stated that the provision of money by the Federal Government for research could be used as another avenue to improve skills on research proposal writing.

The guest speaker, Prof Bridget Teboh, from the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth, United States America, described project proposal as a document that represents the blueprint from which a successful project will eventually grow.

While speaking on the importance of a good project proposal in the society, she explained that, “A project doesn’t exist until it has been proposed and got the go-ahead.”

She stressed the necessity of project proposal writing and explained the rationale for its organisation in the college, saying the seminar was aimed at boosting the proficiency of those who wish to strengthen their grant writing skills, as well as beginners, who wish to acquire and master the techniques of preparing and writing winning proposals to various funding agencies.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]