NUC seeks partnership among education stakeholders
Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe

The National Universities Commission has advocated a partnership between the academia, industry and the Federal Government that will successfully refocus university education for creativity and nation-building.

The Deputy Executive Secretary of the NUC, Suleiman Ramon-Yusuf, said this while delivering a public lecture titled, Refocusing the Nigerian universities system for creativity and nation-building, at the maiden matriculation of the Trinity University in Lagos.

Arguing that if all critical stakeholders came together to fill the identified gaps in the quality of input in universities’ programmes, Ramon-Yusuf said the discharge of the teaching-learning, research and community engagement would move the nation towards technological and socio-economic development, as well as wealth creation and global competitiveness.

He added, “Stakeholders must midwife and advance a collaborative framework for useful partnership between the academia, industry and government within the structure of commonality of interests.

“The private sector should be involved in the curriculum review in universities to ensure that graduates are fit for purpose instead of standing aloof and condemning the products of universities.

“Also, there should be an appropriate window for universities under the coordination of TETFund to address industry-focused research based on specific sector requirements that will promote the competitiveness of the Nigeria industry. The universities and industries should collaborate in creating new products and advancing new frontiers of innovations.

“The NUC and the Nigerian Economic Summit Group are to collaborate on enabling knowledge exchange engagements between the academia and industry to allow industry leaders serve as adjunct lecturers in the universities, while university lecturers can utilise their sabbatical to work in the industry.

“The government, working with the National Assembly should enact enabling laws that would institutionalise any agreed academia, industry and government collaboration framework.”

Ramon-Yusuf urged the Nigerian universities to embark on strategic capacity building to bring academics up-to-date with new trends in their respective subject areas in order to achieve the desired impact.

The Vice-Chancellor of Trinity University, Prof Charles Ayo, noted that the 13 students of the school could develop their personal websites, regardless of their fields of study. He added that the school’s mission was to equip the students with knowledge, skills, values through quality teaching, learning and research to create effective change agents and value-adding members of the society.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]