Alumni donate borehole to FUTA farm
Peter Dada, Akure

The Alumni Association of the Federal University of Technology, Akure, Ondo State, has donated a borehole to the teaching and research farm of the institution.

It was gathered that the gesture was part of the association’s efforts to improve the university’s capacity to deliver on one of its core mandates.

Speaking on the development, the President of the FUTA Alumni Association Worldwide, Mr. Olaitan Adesomoju, said the donation was in line with the association’s resolve to contribute meaningfully to the development of their alma mater.

According to him, the relationship between the alumni and the university could be likened to that of a mother and a child.

He said, “It is the responsibility of all reasonable alumni to contribute significantly to the growth of the alma mater.”

While describing the university management as very cooperative and always willing to listen to suggestions from the association, Adesomoju said the water project would further boost the capacity of the farm in its assigned responsibility of training and research.

In his remarks at the occasion, the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof Joseph Fuwape, who was represented by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Development), Prof Philip Oguntunde, lauded the alumni president and members of his executive, for not forgetting their source and for constantly giving back.

Commending the association for its gesture, he said it would improve service delivery by the teaching and research farm.

While commissioning the project, the Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, represented by his Chief of Staff, Mr Gbenga Ale, urged all old students of the institution to take the initiative of going back to their alma mater from time to time in order to experience the joy and excitement of homecoming.

“The role of the alumni cannot be taken for granted as most universities need the support of the association to sustain academic development,” the governor stated.

He charged the association to continue to execute more laudable projects that would be of benefit to students and the entire university community at large.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]