Ado Fed Poly seeks support
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Rector, Federal Polytechnic, Ado Ekiti, Dr Hephzibar Oladebeye, has called for the support of private bodies towards the development of the school.

Oladebeye, who restated his commitment to making FEDPOLYADO a respectable institution, said the school needed financial and infrastructural support.

The rector spoke on Friday at a press conference ahead of the 17th combined convocation of the institution where 16,786 graduands (2013/2014; 2014/2015; 2015/2016; 2016/2017 and 2017/2018 sets) would be conferred with National Diploma and Higher National Diploma honours.

He listed some of the challenges facing the school as ageing infrastructure, poor road network, a lack of good hostels, a lack of good laboratories, dilapidated staff quarters and inadequate books/accessories.

Oladebeye said, “The government alone cannot do it if an institution as this is to fulfil its mandate. We are soliciting the support of potential benefactors and well-meaning Nigerians to come to our aid so that the mission and the vision for which this institution was founded can be fully achieved.”

According to him, the institution wants to embark on the construction of an auditorium with a capacity of 3,000.

He said they needed N4.5bn to construct roads and over N1bn for laboratories, workshops, hostels and vehicles.

Oladebeye said the institution had signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Federal University Oye Ekiti for degree top-up and conversion degree programmes in some faculties.

The rector added, “FUOYE has also approved the full-time degree programmes in the faculties of engineering, agriculture and management sciences.

“The polytechnic is also sustaining and expanding its collaboration with Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, in the running of some degree programmes.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]