FCE(T) Umunze students protest alleged religious discrimination
Tony Okafor, Awka

Scores of students of the Federal College of Education, Technical, Umunze, Anambra State on Monday protested alleged religious discrimination on campus.

They alleged unequal treatment in the election of the Students Union Government of the college.

The protesters, mostly of the Anglican and Pentecostal churches marched round the town carrying placards with different inscriptions.

Some of their placards read, “Say no to marginalisation in FCE(T) Umunze,” “We need our Rights Back” and “Catholic dominance must stop in FCET, Umunze”.

It was learnt that the protesters were angered by the disqualification of certain candidates for the elections without genuine reasons.

The protesters alleged that thes ame scenario played out in 2013 when they were denied rights in the elections which led to protests that resulted in the suspension and termination of admissions of some students.

The students they had written a petition to the college management demanding fair hearing and equality to no avail which prompted the protest.

The spokesperson for the protesters, Promise Alaebo, accused the school management of imposing its candidates on the students, describing it as unacceptable.

He said, “In the past SUG elections, offices of the President, Secretary, Financial Secretary and other key positions were not contested. We are protesting against so many irregularities regarding the electoral process in the ongoing SUG elections in the college where some critical positions were declared unopposed for just no reason.

“We called the management but we were told to do whatever we want to do. That statement provoked us and we decided to show them that we are not happy.”

The college’s Public Relations Officer, Mr Sam Otti, said the elections had been suspended over grievances that came up hours before the commencement.

He said the management had ordered the students back to their hostels.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]