UNILAG VC, ex-commssioner emphasise importance of technology
Tare Youdeowei

A former Lagos State Commissioner for Science and Technology, Hakeem Fahm, has emphasised the importance of technology to students and teachers.

Fahm said this on Saturday at a design competition for Nigerian universities organised by the Department of Engineering, University of Lagos, in honour of the late Prof Ayodele Awojobi.

He said, “Technology is a powerful tool for transforming learning. It helps to affirm and advance the relationships between educators and students. It reinvents our approaches to learning and collaboration, shrinks long-standing equity and accessibility gaps and adapts learning experiences to meet the needs of learners.”

Fahm advised educators to constantly develop themselves alongside their students.

He said, “Vocational institutions, colleges, adult learning centres and universities should be incubators for exploration and invention.

“Educators should seek knowledge and constantly acquiring new skills alongside their students. Education leaders should set a vision for creating learning experiences that provide the right tools and support for all learners to thrive.”

UNILAG Vice-Chancellor, Prof Ogundipe Oluwatoyin, said technology would help students to develop their skills.

He said, “Technology will add to the global innovation index of Nigeria. It will make Nigeria rise in the global innovation index.

It will make our students work with the ideas they have to migrate to entrepreneurship. Innovation and entrepreneurship are part of our vision at the University of Lagos.”

The Dean, Faculty of Engineering, Prof Funsho Falade, lamented a lack of support for Nigerian engineers from the government.

Falade said, “We don’t believe in ourselves as a nation. There is nothing developed in the laboratory that doesn’t need money to transform it into a prototype. As a scientist, you may not have enough money to develop a project on a large scale, you put it as an experimental work. When there is an identification of a material that is fit for use, the government has to take it up from there.”

The event had finalists from UNILAG, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ahmadu Bello University and University of Ibadan.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]