IEIEPC, RCCG collaborate on special needs children
Tare Youdeowei

A non-governmental organisation that focuses on the education of children with special needs, the Inclusive Education and Individualised Education Plan Centre and the Redeemed Christian Church of God, have held a conference on special and inclusive education for parents and caregivers of children with special needs.

This was made known in a statement on Wednesday, which also disclosed that the conference had over 600 children with special needs, parents and caregivers from Lagos and neighbouring states in attendance.

Speaking at the conference that featured a mix of presentations and specialised therapeutic consultations facilitated by specialists in various fields of special education, the Director IEIEPC and convener of the workshop, Mr Oyeyinka Oluwawumi, said the event was to train parents, teachers and social workers on the skills required to support and bring out the best in people living with disabilities.

He said, “Every child with special needs has a strength that can be annexed for maximal performance. We want to help in the best possible way, which is why we organised the conference to enable us to design an individualised education plan for the children concerned.”

Oluwawumi also described the partnership with the RCCG as laudable as he revealed that the Church’s stride in Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives was a major appeal.

Also, the pastor in charge of the RCCG, Liberation Area, Tony Egbe, said the church’s involvement was in furtherance of its commitment to ensuring the total wellbeing of man, just as he expressed satisfaction with the level of participation by the focused groups.

A special education consultant from the University of Ibadan, Dr Olusegun Oyundoyin, also called on parents and caregivers of special needs children to work with them to become independent adults.

He said, “Some areas of skill development that can foster independence are self-care, psycho-social, cognitive, motor, communication and vocational skills. The earlier persons with a disability learn to do these, the less the intrusion of their privacy especially once puberty sets in. They should be given the opportunity to practise till perfection, with a lot of room for errors, spiced with ample encouragement. In essence, persons with disabilities should be allowed to learn to live independently in ways that suit their needs.”

A participant, Alhaja Idiat Sanni of the National Orthopaedic Special School and Second Vice President of the Association for Intellectual Development of Nigeria, described the workshop as enlightening and called for more specialised platforms like the IEIEPC to enable indigenous solutions.

She said, “We need more platforms like the IEIEPC. We cannot continue to refer people overseas for treatment when we can create our own solutions with the team of indigenous professionals.”

Another participant, Mrs Adelokun Latifa, the mother of a special needs child, said the workshop provided her with practical tips on how to help her child become independent.

Latifa said, “My son has been on medication, but it is becoming very difficult to meet up because of the cost. The drug, when you miss a dose, the impact could be quite telling on him. But with this programme, I have been enlightened, especially in the area of nutrition. I have also learnt about therapy which we will start immediately.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]