Ansar-Ud-Deen college rewards outstanding pupils
Fisayo Odumuyiwa

The Ansar-Ud-Deen College, Isolo, Lagos State, has rewarded its outstanding pupils as part of efforts to promote academic excellence and healthy competition.

The principal of the school, Mr Tajudeen Adebambo, during the Valedictory/Prize Giving Day ceremony on Thursday advised the pupils to consistently embrace excellence as it is the only vehicle that would drive them to greatness in life.

Adebambo, while urging the graduating pupils to continue to be worthy ambassadors of the school, noted that the school’s academic performance kept improving because it maintained high standards and rewarded excellence.

He said the pupils demonstrated great and outstanding qualities desirable for 21st-century compliance and urged them to keep exhibiting the qualities they have learnt as they move on to the next phase of their career.

“Today marks the end of another academic session and it has been a very busy year with many changes. The teaching and learning which we demonstrate here are absolutely brilliant and 21st century compliant. The opportunities afforded to our pupils are of the highest quality and meet the diverse range of learning needs and these are combined so as to achieve a total child.

“While we are committed to producing individuals that would change the country and the world positively, I urge the pupils to consistently embrace excellence because it is the only vehicle that can drive them to excel in life. Excellence is something that is achieved through a planned and meticulous way of doing things and once it becomes a culture, it is very difficult to see mediocrity and associate with it.

“To the graduating pupils, I urge you to continue to be worthy ambassadors of this school and go out there to rule the world and make a great difference with all the amazing and exceptional abilities you have been equipped with during your stay here. I also thank the parents for their efforts at ensuring we achieve a total child in terms of learning and skills,” Adebambo said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]