Don laments neglect of websites
Tare Youdeowei

The Director of the Centre for International Advanced and Professional Studies, Prof Anthony Kila, has lamented the neglect of websites by federal and state governments following a research a carried out by the body.

Kila said this at an event organised by the CIAPS in Lagos on Friday to disclose the report of e-governance in states’ websites.

Kila said he was not was not satisfied with the outcome of the research.

He said, “When you talk about democracy, e-governance tackles pollution and corruption best. It is something that anyone with an android phone or a laptop can do by themselves.

“E-Governance must be taken seriously because the world is going digital. Very soon only the dead will not be active online. The future is digital. So, the rational thing to do is to be prepared to go digital too. It is sad that we still have to tell our leaders this at this point in time.”

Kila added, “We used 10 criteria to judge the basic things including updated interactivity, content relevance, user friendliness, updates, empowerment opportunity, directory, policies, accountability and call to action.

“Sadly, only two states scored 70 per cent and above in the whole of the process. We broke it down to four segments that consisted of the top 10 states, the middle states, the bottom 10 and the non-existent websites states. Kaduna led all other states with 72 per cent, while Delta followed with 70 per cent. On the non-existent list, we have Adamawa, Bayelsa, Cross-River, Niger, Imo and Zamfara states. There is no data on interactivity because all that were evaluated failed to respond to our mails after communicating to them via their e-mail addresses provided on their websites.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]