Mum’s favourite punishment for bad behaviour was reading –Baret, first-class graduate
Like the narrative of using one stone to kill two birds, Mangshin Baret, who graduated with a first-class degree from the Department of Crop Production, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi, made 4.54 CGPA, got four awards during the institution’s convocation and an offer of automatic employment by the school. In this interview with ARMSTRONG BAKAM, he talks about his accomplishment

Too a large extent, many young people used to run away from agriculture-related courses, what attracted you to it?

Agriculture wasn’t my dream course. I applied for computer science but I had some issues with registration so I was sent to the Department of Crop Production in the Faculty of Agriculture. Even though I grew up in a family that was into farming as we used to go to the farm with my grandfather, it wasn’t a course I wanted to study in school even though I had interest in agriculture right from those early years.

Were there times people tried to make you feel like you made the wrong choice because you are studying an agriculture-related course?

Yes, many times. Anytime I mention my course as crop production, people would begin to laugh and ask, ‘which one is crop production again?’ In fact, at some point in my first and second years, I stopped telling people the course I was studying. I could tell them either agricultural technology or agricultural engineering because of the engineering part, thinking that would make it look admirable. But, in the third year when I began to understand a lot about the prospects of the course and the value it has to offer, I became proud of it.

Could you tell us what the course is about?

It’s about agricultural production as it pertains to edible crops. It entails a lot of things; there’s the entomology part, pathology part, agronomy part, which is the normal farm practice, then the plant breeding part which I specialise in now. It is about the production of crops for global food security.

What have you been doing since you graduated?

After my first degree, I went for my second degree and I am done with that now. At present, I am a farmer; I’m into fish farming and crop farming, whilst lecturing.

We heard you got automatic employment with Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi.

I like being an academic given the opportunities it has for personal development and moulding the future of others. I have always had an interest in imparting knowledge in others. As an academic, I believe I have three responsibilities, which are in the areas of teaching, research and community service and I’m committed to them.

Would you say graduating with a first-class degree has opened doors for you?

Yes, it has opened a lot of doors for me, in addition to the lots of scholarship opportunities available. It was due to the first class that my school retained me as a graduate assistant, coupled with a lot of other opportunities. So, graduating with a first-class degree is never a waste of time.

How easy or difficult was it for you to graduate with a first-class degree?

I won’t say it was easy and I won’t say it was difficult either. The three years I spent before I secured admission into the university helped me to prepare ahead. I read inspirational books, and books mainly about personal development. By the time I got to school, reading was not a difficult thing and that helped.

Did you plan to graduate with a first-class degree or hard work simply paid off?

It was hard work. When I got admission, I thought of changing the course after my first year. So, it wasn’t as if I planned to graduate with a first-class degree. It was after the second semester of my first year that I decided to stay and it was then that I started seeing prospects in the course and how it could help me to do better for humanity. I started having results in the first-class category in my final year. I started with 4.0 (second class upper division) from my very first semester and it kept on improving till my final year when I finished with a first-class degree. I would tie that to God, hard work and the people who have influenced me positively. When I was a child, my mother was a secondary school teacher and right from when we were very small, our punishment anytime we did anything wrong was to be given books, including novels like ‘Chike and the River’; ‘The Passport of Malam Ilia’ and ‘This is Your Chance’ to read. Our punishment was to read any book given to us before she returned from work. We did that when other children were outside playing and we would want to play with them but we had to read the books by force. It was clear to us that if we didn’t do as instructed, it would be a problem. I must admit that it helped us a lot and God has been there for us, helping us to remain focused. In primary school, I was a good pupil. The early part of my junior secondary school days was okay but during my senior secondary school days, I was more of an average student. When I got to university, I had to reignite the zeal for academic excellence. However, I would also attribute the improvement in my performance to the time I waited for three years before I got admission into ATBU because I did a lot of self-improvement.

Three years is a long time, what kept you going?

It was always very discouraging and the thought of giving up crossed my mind but I knew it was too early to give up. Also, I had a cluster of people around me and I must appreciate them via this platform. You cannot have my family and friends around you and be negative. They were a great source of encouragement for me.

How would you have felt if you had not graduated with a first-class degree?

During my final year, I had started having the first-class grade and I was already feeling excited. I was very hopeful about that because of the prospects that abound for first-class students. So, right from when I started having first-class grades, I started searching the Internet and asking many questions about the prospects that first-class students had. The responses I got made me more determined, so if I hadn’t graduated with a first-class degree, it would have been disappointing but I know that things would still have been okay because I would still have been pushed to achieve certain feats.

Did you win any scholarship or award in school?

During my convocation, I got four awards: Dean’s Award for the Best Graduating Student for the Faculty of Agriculture; Prof Suleiman Bogoro’s Award; Gouria Award for the Best Graduating Student in Plantation Crops and Sen Matori’s Award for Best Student in Field Crops.

Would you say you did some things differently from your classmates since it wasn’t everyone that graduated with a first-class degree?

I made some choices before when I started my programme in ATBU; choices like getting involved in things that would develop my intellectual capacity, studying and attending training programmes that would build my reasoning capabilities. So, when I started schooling, I was able to see things from different perspectives. Generally, I believe it was a product of my preparations before I got to school and of course the efforts I put in during my stay in school.

What was your reading schedule like?

When I started, it was more like I wanted to read anytime I had the opportunity, but with time I discovered it wasn’t working for me. I later realised I understood best when everywhere was quiet, so I decided to start reading at night. I did every other thing during the day, then rest a little in the night, and later wake up to read. That was how I scheduled my reading.

It was learnt that you were awarded an African Union scholarship for your MSc, could you share more about it?

I came across the advert for the scholarship during my National Youth Service Corps programme in Zamfara State. My plan after the programme was to go get a master’s degree, so I was always seeking opportunities and that was when I stumbled on it and applied. I was fortunate to be among the 108 persons selected across Africa. About 78 of us were for master’s degree programmes while the other 30 were for PhD. I was selected for plant breeding and we were just nine given the course in Ibadan. We had lecturers from different parts of the world. After my first year; my coursework in Ibadan, I was sent to the International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics. I was sent to their international Sahelian Centre in Niamey, Niger Republic, to do my internship and research at the same time. So, I spent about eight months from January to August in that institution, doing research.

Where would you like to work?

Apart from the academic world, where I would like to work is in any of the world-class research institutions like the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture, ICRISAT and other research institutions that work on solving agricultural problems.

Did you face any challenge as an undergraduate?

Yes, I did. After my first year, while we were on break before resuming for the 200-level first semester, I lost my dad in a car accident. He was an immigration officer while my mum was a teacher. Subsequently, things became quite difficult. In my first year, my dad used to send me N20,000 every month as pocket money, and anytime there was a need, he sent me money. But after his death, I had to adjust. That was a challenge for me but I also thank God for my extended family, my uncles and everyone who stepped in.

Could you remember how your parents and family received the news when you graduated?

It was exciting for all of them. My friends and family were all excited because, throughout my stay in school, only my twin brother visited me once in a while. But when it was time for my convocation, knowing that I graduated with a first-class degree, everybody wanted to be there. People were offering to buy me the suit I would wear on that day. It was a memorable moment; everybody was excited.

What advice would you give to students?

They should give their best always. For students having difficulty, I want to encourage them not to see themselves as dull; they should put in the necessary efforts. I believe that with little efforts, but with discipline and commitment, things would get better. I also believe students should keep good friends. I had a set of good friends and they encouraged me a lot. They made sure that I didn’t lose sight of what I was doing. But in spite of the much work, it didn’t stop me from enjoying the fun moments, interacting with friends and doing meaningful things with them; I appreciate that a lot.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]