Ekiti upgrades facilities in schools
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Ekiti State Government has begun repairs, renovation and construction of structures as part of efforts to upgrade facilities in its primary and secondary schools.

The Chairman, Ekiti State Universal Basic Education Board, Prof. Francisca Aladejana, warned the contractors handling the ongoing renovation and construction against use of substandard materials.

Aladejana, who said the step was to ensure a conducive teaching and learning environment said that the board would not pay for poorly executed projects.

The SUBEB chairman, who spoke at Ikere Ekiti on Wednesday during a monitoring tour of some of the ongoing projects in the city, said, “Any contractor who fails to execute the projects to SUBEB specification or fails to give value for money collected would be blacklisted and made to face further serious sanctions.

“Government is spending a lot of money to upgrade facilities in our schools so that teaching and learning can take place in a more conducive environment. We won’t wait here while some contractors sabotage efforts of the government to achieving this goal,” Aladejana said.

She said the board would continue to monitor the ongoing projects to ensure strict compliance to project specifications

At AUD Nursery and Primary School, Oke’kere, Ikere-Ekiti, the chairman ordered the contractor to remove the inferior material used and replace it with a better quality material.

The SUBEB boss praised the headteacher of the school and the Education Secretary of Ikere Local Government for calling the attention of the board to the shoddy job being executed by the contractor.

Aladejana urged headteachers of schools and other stakeholders in the sector to ensure proper monitoring of all ongoing projects as they and their children would be the end-users of most of the projects.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]