Lagos SUBEB promises better days ahead
Tare Youdeowei

The Executive Chairman, Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board, Dr Ganiyu Sopeyin, has assured Lagosians of better days for basic education in the state, saying that the Governor of the state, Babajide Sanwo-Olu was committed to changing every part of the state.

He disclosed this during the formal presentation of the report of monitoring the implementation of the year 2016 and 2017 Lagos SUBEB action plan in selected LGAs held at NECA House, Ikeja on Tuesday.

Sopeyin, while applauding Human Development Initiatives, the non-governmental organisation that carried out the study, emphasised that the penalty for corrupt contractors should be nationwide disgrace.

Also, the Executive Director, HDI, Mrs Oluwafunso Owasanoye, said that poor funding was one of the greatest problems confronting the country’s education sector.

“The meagre resources being devoted to financing education, especially basic education, usually get frittered away as proceeds of corruption through retail corruption, project cost inflation, use of substandard materials and kickbacks.

“While several chief security officers beam their searchlights on national level occurrences of graft, corruption has dwarfed most of the efforts put into improving the standard of basic education in Nigeria, often resulting in decaying infrastructure, low educational outcomes, the dearth of qualified and well-trained personnel among others,” Owasanoye said.

The Chairman, Education Secretaries in Lagos, Mr Olalekan Majiyagbe, commended HDI for its work and described the report as an impactful and corrective therapy.

Programme Officer at HDI, Mr Johnson Ibidapo, also explained that the gathering was to assess basic education projects in nine local government education authorities.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]