Stakeholders decry decay in education system
Tare Youdeowei

Stakeholders in the education sector have decried wanton decay in the system occasioned by compromise among school owners and regulators.

They spoke at the 21st Valedictory Service and Prize-Giving Day of Good Shepherd Schools held across Alakuko, Atan and Meiran campuses which saw 170 pupils graduate in Lagos recently.

At the event, Dr Olumide Ige, a senior lecturer and post-graduate coordinator at the Department of Arts and Social Sciences Education, University of Lagos, said the decay in schools was a reflection of society.

He said, “When school owners compromise standard through devious acts, there is no hope for the nation. To check moral decadence in schools, the nation must go back to its original plan and standard for education.

“Many schools have lost focus. Schools must start preparing pupils to solve problems. Schools should not add to the population of bad eggs in society.”

Ige also advised the school leavers to brace up for the challenges ahead as they were bound to face them and overcome.

On her part, the Director of Operations of the schools, Dr Yemisi Oyeyemi, said schools were the major problem of the sector as they readily compromised standard.

“We need to get it right from the top. Those willing to change the system are often frustrated. We need people who have a vision and the will power to do the right thing. A former Minister of Education, Oby Ezekwesili, was doing the right thing to revamp the system, but she was frustrated. The government should look for men and women with integrity to man the system. A nation that does not get the future right is doomed,” Oyeyemi declared.

The Chairman of the schools, Dr Bayo Oyeyemi, said the school was founded on the pillar of godliness and remained committed to the core values of academic discipline and abhorred all forms of education corruption.

“I have no doubt in my mind that Good Shepherd’s style of education prepares children for worthwhile living in a world that is threatened by many forms of unwholesomeness. Children here understand that success is not achieved by cutting corners,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]