Best Wamy pupil advises juniors
Fisayo Odumiyiwa

The outgoing headgirl of Wamy International School, Basirah Abdulah, has said emerging as the best graduating student was to motivate her junior colleagues to work hard.

Abdulah spoke at the 25th anniversary and 20th graduation ceremony of the school in Ojodu, Lagos on Thursday.

The 16-year-old pupil, who got a standing ovation when called to come and receive her prize, described her experience of combining leadership and academics as tough.

She said, “Combining education with my headgirl roles was stressful and tough. I wasn’t aiming to be the overall best at first but I realised that my parents expected more from me and my junior colleagues saw me as a role model. I felt that as a leader, I must be sound in all ramifications. I want my junior colleagues to emulate me by being academically sound too.

“It is about self confidence and determination. I understand what I am here for and I was ready to bear the pains. I get to school very early. I spend more time reading than others. I am not the type of person that likes playing a lot. When others are out, playing, I find a secluded place to read. When I am in the hostel, I wake up in the midnight and spend some time reading.”

Commenting on the successes of the school since its 25 years establishment, Head of Wamy International Office in Lagos, Dr Momine Omolaja, said the school was fulfilling its dreams of upbringing and training of youths.

“Wamy has fulfilled a vacuum by offering a world standard education for the young generation in Nigeria, because it has a rich and dependable source of high quality. The range of education and ancillary services by this school is expanding rapidly. As we continue to work towards our goal, with our children, ever first in our mind, the reality becomes inevitable,” he added.

Outgoing Senior Prefect of the school, Abdulwadud Okataihi, urged his colleagues to be good ambassadors of the school.

He said, “We have all put in resilient fight over the years. We have shown that we are individuals of great character who are ready to break barriers in achieving great things. We should not allow this success to get into our heads; we should rather see it as the end of a journey and beginning of another.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]