Ekiti plans to recruit teachers
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Chairman, Ekiti State Teaching Service Commission, Babatunde Abegunde, said on Wednesday that the state government was making arrangements to recruit more teaching and non-teaching staff to fill the existing vacancies in secondary schools in the state.

Abegunde said the ongoing verification of workers in the schools would reconfirm the number of vacancies and as well correct the existing data of teaching and non-teaching staff in the institutions.

The TESCOM boss spoke at Aramoko Ekiti while addressing secondary school workers from Efon and Ekiti West local government areas who converged on Aramoko District Commercial Grammar School, Aramoko-Ekiti, for the verification exercise.

He said, “There has been lop-sidedness in the distribution of staff. Teachers will henceforth be deployed, irrespective of geographical location to areas where their services would be most needed across the state.

“The ongoing comprehensive verification exercise being undertaken by the commission was targeted at getting accurate data of secondary school staff in the state.”

Abegunde said the verification exercise was result-oriented as it was capable of detecting what the biometric pay system might not capture, particularly members of staff who might have absconded from their duty post.

The Permanent Secretary, TESCOM, Mr Ayodele Ajimati, advised the teachers to cooperate with the officers in charge of the verification exercise, noting that the exercise was purely for data verification and nothing else as being peddled around.

The Principal, Aramoko District Commercial Grammar School, Mr Tayo Omirin, praised the efforts of the government on the verification exercise, saying the exercise aimed at ascertaining the number of teachers in the state should be repeated every two years.

Omirin advised the teachers to cooperate, comport themselves in orderly manner and render their documents and information in the most accurate manner without any falsification whatsoever.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]