Parents urged to partner schools for pupils training
Mudiaga Affe

The Chairman of the Board of Mahanaim Secondary School in Calabar, Cross River State, Mr Byron Caiafas, has urged parents to partner schools to achieve the successful upbringing of pupils.

Caiafas said this during the shutting down ceremony for the 2018/2019 academic session as well as the third graduation of the school. He said it had become common knowledge that pupils no longer wanted to study hard due to the eroding culture of reading.

In a statement made available on Thursday, Caiafas said the decay in society was having a devastating effect on the educational sector.

He said, “It is common knowledge in the country that there is general decay in the society which has led to a significant drop in our educational system. The general observation is that a great number of our children simply do not want to read and this cuts across all levels of education.

“To this end, conscientious educational growth providers have a difficult time trying to teach in order to bring our children up to speed academically.

“To our parents, we ask that you strive to be in one accord with the school, so long as their vision is clear and purposeful. Lend your voice at all times, identify and cut off all palliative distractions from the children at home as well as stop criticising the school’s policies in their presence. Discuss the seemingly grey areas with the service providers to better understand such policies and also, do not spare the rod.”

He commended the proprietor of the school for driving the teachers to ensure that the pupils performed well academically, adding that the task of bringing up the child required devotion and commitment.

The Proprietor of the school, Mrs Doris Caiafas, said in the eight years that the full-time boarding institution had been in existence, it had proved its mettle as a veritable source of the much-needed change in secondary education.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]