SDGs not attainable without higher education, UN told
None of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals or SDGs – the internationally agreed framework for tackling poverty, inequality, disease and climate change – can be achieved without the contribution of higher education through research, teaching and community engagement.

That was the key message of a statement launched by the Association of Commonwealth Universities, the Agence Universitaire de la Francophonie and the International Association of Universities at the UN High-level Political Forum on sustainable development held in New York recently.

During the global event organised by the Higher Education Sustainability Initiative, the three university organisations which represent more than 2,000 universities globally, used their collective voice to champion the importance of higher education for the SDGs and called for partnerships within and beyond the sector to achieve the goals.

The statement said, “None of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals can be achieved without the contribution of higher education and research.

“Through research, universities play a unique role in producing new knowledge and innovation to address global challenges and providing evidence for informed public policy.

“Through teaching, universities develop generations of new leaders and skilled professionals who will drive social and economic development.

“Through community engagement, universities work with a rich variety of stakeholders including governments, the private sector and civil society, to contribute towards local, national and global impact.”

Speaking to University World News, the secretary general of the Association of Commonwealth Universities, Dr Joanna Newman, said the forum represented a major step forward for higher education, which in previous years had been largely absent from discussions for previously the Millennium Development Goals and more recently their successors, the SDGs.

In the long term, the three organisations would seek to consolidate higher education’s place to the point where it will be seen as part of what people need to talk about, she said.

“Outputs of the two-week forum each year feed into the UN General Assembly in September each year and a meeting of heads of government to look at what needs to be done to keep on track for achieving the SDGs by 2030.”

Newman highlighted the role that universities can play in SDG4 (education), which, “up until now has only been paid lip service and there still isn’t a good way of measuring higher education’s contribution to SDG4 or any of the other goals.

“So the target for us is calling on the UN and agencies to respond to the need for strong higher education systems globally to achieve SDG4.

“The Association of Commonwealth Universities’ own contribution to the agenda is to launch a new network – which it announced in New York, to increase the contribution of universities to the SDGs.

“Our contribution to the statement is saying let us harness the efforts of our universities. There are so many things they do around the SDGs – on the one hand, they did them before, but on other, the SDGs are a good organising principle for global citizenship.

“It means looking at the curriculum and the campus in terms of what you are doing to meet the SDGs, so it behoves universities to play within the SDG arena, which is the only inter-government agreement we have that has targets and goals for 2030,” Newman said.

Source: universityworldnews.com