Babcock VC cautions youths against thuggery
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

The President and Vice-Chancellor of Babcock University, Ilishan, Ogun State, Dr Tayo Ademola, has charged youths to eschew all forms of social vices, including thuggery, kidnapping and robbery among others.

He said this at the 3rd session of the Babcock International Model United Nations 2019 Conference with the theme, “Innovation as a pathway to integration and development: Challenges of a dynamic Africa” held at the institution’s campus.

While addressing the over 350 delegates from about 20 African countries, Ademola urged the government to create an enabling environment for the youths to rise to leadership.

The Vice-Chancellor who was flanked by the United Nations Country Director of Communications for Nigeria, Ronald Kayanja, warned the students against being tools in the hands of politicians.

He said, “The implication, therefore, is that government globally should create an enabling environment for the youths to rise to leadership positions.

“It is, however, sad that many youths are now involved in armed robbery, kidnapping and other vices. Let me remind you and pass the message around and loud that you should not allow anybody to despise your youth, use you to achieve their selfish political agenda.

“I have no doubt that the communique of this conference will be engaging and invite governments’ attention in Africa to rise up to create a better enabling environment for youths to occupy positions of prominence in Africa and beyond.”

Addressing the students, Kayanja harped on the need to mobilise resources from all sectors, including the government, private sector, multinational corporations, international organisations and individuals to ensure there was even development in all countries of the world.

The country director added that the many challenges facing Africa could be eradicated if innovations by Africans were brought in to complement regional and global integration.

“One other challenge we are faced with in achieving the SDG goals is the challenge of funds. We need a lot of money to implement projects. If we want to make electricity available for all Nigerians, we need a lot of money. If we want to construct a road from Lagos to Mumbasa, we have to invest a lot of money into the development sphere. We need about $1tr every year until 2030 to achieve these SDGs globally. The money exists, the issue is putting the money into the development sphere.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]