Believe in yourself, don tells school leavers
Fisayo Odumuyiwa

The Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Academics and Research, University of Lagos, Prof. Oluwole Familoni, has advised pupils to believe in themselves and not allow social media to distract them from their studies.

Familoni, who was the guest speaker at the valedictory ceremony of Chrisland College, Lagos, also advised the school leavers to be shining lights and good ambassadors of the college wherever they go.

He said, “Be hard working and focused, avoid the distraction of social media if you want to be a champion. Make use of social media for positive things. Associate with people that will support your dreams and visions. There will always be people willing to help you, find them and let them mentor you. Don’t move with people that will discourage you and destroy your future.”

He also praised the pupils for the team spirit and the uncommon bond they displayed during their time in school.

The Principal of the Ikeja branch of the college, Mr Erik Van Der Merwe, advised the school leavers to see the big future ahead of them.

“No matter how you feel, get up, dress up, show up and never give up.”

The valedictorian, Adeeko Ohuntosanbami, in her speech said she stayed away from all forms of distractions to achieve the academic feat.

“I set goals for myself and made sacrifices to achieve these goals. I never watched television during school session. Initially I was very annoyed because this was a rule my parents never bent. Later, it became a habit and gave me enough time to study.

“I was able to avoid all forms of distraction to achieve success. I was able to visualise what I wanted and create a reading schedule. That does not mean I was a bookworm, I was simply able to set my priorities right,” Ohuntosanbami said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]