Cleric wants return of mission schools
Tunde Oyekola

The Head of Cherubim and Seraphim Movement Church Worldwide, Most Rev. Samuel Abidoye, has appealed to the Kwara State Government to return the schools which it took over from the missionaries, a few years ago, to their owners if it cannot maintain them.

Abidoye, while calling the attention of the state government to dilapidated infrastructure and congestion in classrooms, suggested that government should hand over the schools to their respective owners for proper maintenance.

He said, speaking with journalists in Ilorin during 50th anniversary of the Cherubim and Seraphim College, Sabo Oke, Ilorin, the head of the Church said the neglect had hampered teaching and learning environment in schools.

“We appreciate the state government for grant-aiding the schools in accordance with the edict during the military era, which gave the government the opportunity to pay the salaries of full time staff; but apart from the payment, there has not been any contribution of note from the government in respect of physical development which had made the existing buildings to be dilapidated as well as made our classes to be congested by having over 100 students in a classroom.

“How on earth will a teacher be able to teach conveniently and the students assimilate teachings?”

The church leader also said the state government should consider returning mission schools to original owners as was done in other states for effective management and development.”

Reacting to a recent religious crisis in a secondary school in the state, Abidoye advised government to allow religious tolerance in schools, saying various mission schools should be allowed to practise their religious belief in their schools without interference from external bodies.

The cleric, who called on the Federal Government to find a lasting solution to insecurity challenges in parts of the country, said there should not be any sacred cow in any section of the country.

“Issue of kidnapping and killings in the country have left citizens with one eye open. The abduction and the killings are no longer restricted to a part of the country as it has gradually spread to every part of the geopolitical zones of the nation.

“The security of this nation is now the concern of all. Nobody can say where next. The security forces in the country seem not to be in charge any longer. If care is not taken, these crises may not end well for us. We do not pray for another civil war,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]