UNIOSUN students protest arrest of colleagues by EFCC
Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo

Students of the Osun State University, Osogbo main campus, on Thursday staged a protest against the arrest of some of their colleagues by the operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission.

A student of the institution, Tayo Mosadope, told our correspondent that armed security operatives stormed some hostels in Oke Baale area of Osogbo around 7am and arrested about 20 students and some non-students living in the area.

Mosadope said, “The security men that came did not wear any tag to indicate where they come from. But we know they are operatives of the EFCC. About 20 students were arrested. Some non-students that are living around the hostel were also picked up. A staff of the university that was caught recording activities of the agency was also arrested.”

Reacting to the development, students of the institution blocked the Osogbo-Ibokun Road with a bonfire and paralysed commercial activities in the area for several hours.

The protesters alleged that the EFCC operatives who arrested the students tortured those arrested before they were taken away.

Pleas by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Janet Olaitan, and policemen deployed to the scene, urging the protesting students to unblock the road and return to campus were ignored until teargas was used to disperse them.

A statement from the Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Labode Popoola, told the students not to protest over the arrest of suspects of a crime, urging them to allow security agents to do their job.

“The management of the Osun State University has made it clear to our students that it will be a misadventure to protest the arrest of individuals suspected to be involved in crime. No one can stop investigations. The outcome of investigations will determine the next steps of the university. Significantly, the arrested students were not in our hostels. They were in private hostels outside the campus,” the VC said.

The state’s Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Ige, who spoke at another forum in Osogbo, said the EFCC operatives arrested the students, adding that the commission would investigate and take appropriate action after investigations.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]