Support children with communication disorders, don urges stakeholders
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

A Professor of Linguistics in Child Language and Communication Disorder at the National Open University of Nigeria, Shirley Yul-Ifode, has called on the government, parents and other stakeholders to pay attention to language disabilities and general communication disorders in children.

This, he said, was necessary because these disorders were hindering proper education.

The don also said the lack of attention to children’s communication patterns and disorders in Nigeria had made learning difficult and resulted in rising social vices.

Yul-Ifode stated this at the NOUN headquarters in Abuja, while presenting her inaugural lecture on the topic, ‘The Child Beyond the Breath of Life: Our Corporate Concern.’

She admonished parents to provide help and support for children identified with such disorders to minimise the effects of communication difficulties.

Yul-Ifode said, “There is a relationship between the developing child and his language, the medium of communication, which is an index of normal and healthy development, mal-adjustment, as well as some developmental disorders.

“Any family that goes beyond the breath of life and pays attention to the language development of a child will be able to identify deviations not only in the communication patterns, when they arise, but also in other areas of the development of the child for early intervention.

“There should be an interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary forum to brainstorm on the way forward for the special children in Nigeria.”

The Vice-Chancellor of NOUN, Prof. Abdalla Adamu, said the Faculty of Arts of the university would soon establish a research centre for communication disorders due to the critical need to address the issue of children’s language disabilities and communication disorders.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]