Oyo schools to adopt play-based learning
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

The Oyo State Government has said the play-based learning initiative for pre-primary to primary two pupils was crucial in the educational foundation of children.

The state government also said it would harness the learning mode for the development of education, as well as train all pre-primary school teachers to inspire standard practice in the sector.

This was made known on Tuesday by the Chairman, Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board, Dr Nureni Adeniran, during a courtesy visit of the Chief Executive Officer, Early Childhood Development Initiative, Canada, Mrs Patricia Falope, to his office in Ibadan.

Adeniran added that the state government would embark on various measures to get more from teachers.

According to him, the gains in training teachers on early childhood education will be to the benefit of the teachers and society.

He maintained that if initiatives targeted at teachers’ capacity improvement and development were adopted, the state could boast of providing quality education.

“The government would key into this laudable initiative of early childhood development centres across the state to get more in return to achieve the ultimate goal of having success through pupils’ performance, as the input through the teacher will surely reflect in the final result of the pupils in external examinations.

“While monitoring schools in the state, I noticed we do not have enough ECDs. This is disheartening. But be rest assured that the Seyi Makinde-led administration will rectify these anomalies. We will ensure training for all pre-primary teachers and we will increase the ECD centres,” Adeniran said

Falope, the CEO of the initiative, noted that Oyo was the only state in the South-West that had keyed into the initiative, as she promised that the pilot of the initiative would be vibrantly run.

She disclosed that the development initiative already had 24 pre-primary school teachers undergoing training in Ogbomosho North and Ido local government areas, while 271 pupils were benefiting from the pilot study.

Falope added that the initiative had study partners such as the Ryerson University and ECDI, Canada, while the Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the National Commission for Colleges of Education, the University of Ibadan and UBEC were partners in the initiative.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]