Suicide: Parents cautioned against unrealistic expectations
Tare Youdeowei

The Federal Government has advised parents to be patient with their children and wards over their academic performance in order to reduce the spate of suicide among youths.

The government said this through the Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Education, Mr Sonny Echono, at the 11th annual Speech and Prize Giving Day of the Federal Science and Technical College, Yaba, Lagos.

Echono said, “We must make deliberate efforts to stem the tide of suicide that is rising in our society. This starts with the actions we take after a ceremony like this. Parents should not have unrealistic expectations of their children or mount undue pressure that could lead to frustration.”

The official urged the pupils to be focused, disciplined and strive to do their best at all times.

He also reiterated the government’s commitment to restructuring the school system for more effective teaching and learning.

“There is no country in the world that can rise above the level of education of its citizenry. We will continue to do our best and ensure that our plan to restructure education is achieved in the near future.”

The Director of Technology and Science Education in the ministry, Mrs Elizabeth Adedigba, said the government was planning to establish skills acquisition centres across the country.

She said, “The Federal Government has already set up a committee to look into this. These skill centres are going to be established across all the six geo-political zones. This is a place where we also plan to train out-of-school children.

“Already, there are centres established by both public and private stakeholders but we plan to harmonise them and see how we can achieve this one big common goal. We are also planning to resuscitate the Technical Teachers’ Training programme that will enable us to train teachers and thereafter send them to schools to train children and equip them with hands-on-skills,” Adedigba said.

Adedigba also enjoined the graduating pupils to think critically, adding that intelligence and good character are important.

“As responsible young adults and worthy ambassadors of this college and society, you also need to be courageous and learn to be yourself always.”

In her address, the Principal of the college, Dr Ogochuku Ufoegbune, said there was the need to overhaul the curriculum to suit the work needs of society.

According to her, the solution to unemployment is to establish more technical and vocational schools, as well as re-orientate parents on the importance of technical education.

“We must begin to tell ourselves the truth as stakeholders when it comes to technical education. The sooner we all realise that a way out of unemployment is skill acquisition or hands-on-training, especially for our children, the better for us as a country.

“Ours is a technical college; some of my pupils graduating here today are good to go. They are already equipped with skills that will enable them to start their own little businesses. We should redirect our system of education,” Ufoegbune said.

She added that the technical workshops of the institution were fully functional but disclosed that the college was in need of more classrooms and hostels to take care of its increasing pupulation.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]