Open schooling initiative’ll reduce out-of-school population — UBEC
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Universal Basic Education Commission has said the current out-of-school population in Nigeria is worrisome, pointing out that it was higher than the population of other countries.

The UBEC Executive Secretary, Dr Hammid Bobboyi, stated this in Abuja, while signing a Memorandum of Understanding with the Commonwealth of Learning, Canada, on the Open Schooling Initiative.

The commission had inaugurated the open schooling strategy on May 30, 2019.

Bobboyi said, “We reached 13.2 million due to the Boko Haram crisis in 2015. Fortunately, after the personnel audit we did last year, those figures have come down to about 10.1 million. But it is still a worrisome percentage; 10.1 million is more than the population of some countries. Therefore, Nigeria cannot relent in its efforts to ensure that the number is reduced.

“Those who are going to the open schooling system may be more technology savvy, at the end of the day, than those who even attended conventional schools.”

The secretary urged the Federal, state and local governments to synergise and combat the menace of access to schooling together.

The President of the Commonwealth of Learning, Asha Kanwa, said, “Children will only learn what is relevant to them. Out-of-school children are not going to come back to learn number counting or literacy or anything, they want to learn something relevant.

“We did something in Trinidad and Tobago in a fishing village. There were out-of-school children there. They were taught how to make nets, how to fish, how to mend boats and they came back to school because they found that this was a curriculum which was relevant to them.”

She added that 25 out of the 53 Commonwealth countries had implemented open schooling, reduced the cost of schooling and increased access for a large number of pupils.

“For example, the National Institute of Open Schooling in India has 1.3 million students around the country. That is more than the population of some of the Commonwealth countries. That is exactly the situation here in Nigeria, where we could, very soon, see this escalation of enrolments,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]