Private varsities deserve to benefit from TETFund — Obi
Dayo Ojerinde

A former governor of Anambra State, Mr Peter Obi, has stressed the need to include private universities in the list of beneficiaries of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund.

Obi, who was the guest speaker at the maiden convocation of Chrisland University, Abeokuta, Ogun State, said it was unfortunate that TETFund was available to only government-owned institutions.

He said, “The Vice-Chancellor in her speech was pleading for the university to benefit from TETFund. This is not what she is supposed to be requesting for. It is just because we live in the wrong place. they should be looking for you because you are doing them a favour. What they are not providing is what you are providing.

“As a state governor, I recalled that we had three private universities in Anambra State. During my tenure, I decided that we would give them N100m every year. Somebody said to me that they were private institutions and I asked if the students there were private. They are our children. Whether it is a secondary school or hospital, they deserve support from government.”

Speaking on the topic, ‘Creativity, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship: A critical Intersection for Economic Development in Africa’, Obi said the failure of the Nigerian leadership to invest in education and entrepreneurship had led the country to its present economic state.

“Nigeria needs to invest in education and issues affecting the youth. We have an enormous amount of resources in the youth of this country. We need to turn them into the new oil,” he said.

The Vice-Chancellor of the University, Prof. Chinedum Babalola, urged the graduating students of the university to put into practice what they have learned to bring the desired change in the country.

Also, the Chancellor of the University, Dr Winifred Awosika, said the university place a premium on qualitative and standard education as the curricula being used represent the breadth and depth of opportunities.

A total of seven students graduated, with Miss Lauretta Onemu, emerging as the overall best graduating student with a cumulative grade point of 5.0, out of a possible 5.0.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]