Group preaches entreprenueral skill among graduates
Peter Dada, Akure

The Federal University of Technology Akure Muslims Graduates’ Association has called on the undergraduates in the country to acquire entrepreneurial skills, which will enable make to become self-reliant after graduating from school.

The National Chairman of the association, Engr Abdulateef Abdulsalam, made the call during its 13th National Conference, held at FUTA with the theme, ‘FUTAMGA: Means To Educational and Entrepreneurial Growth.’

Abdulsalam said it had become imperative to educate prospective undergraduates and Nigerian youths in general on the need to wake up to the current reality of the economic situation in the country.

He said, “In the fourth industrial revolution, more jobs will likely be lost. About 40 per cent of youths all over the world were reportedly unemployed as of 2018. So we are trying to encourage our young graduates to exploit many opportunities out there and get support from the present government.

“Our young graduates can get involved in agriculture and small or medium scale business, among others, so as to become productive and contribute to the development of the country. They also need to think outside the box and beyond certificates by acquiring entrepreneurial skills.”

He urged the Federal Government to ensure that the educational curriculum meets the international standard by not only teaching, but also complementing it with practicals.

“Our government must continue to support young graduates to acquire skills in entrepreneurship that will lead to self-employment or creation of jobs in the country,” he said.

Also, while presenting a paper at the event, Prof Buniyamin Kareem of the Department of Industrial and Production Engineering, FUTA, said education without entrepreneurship would not withstand the test of time.

Kareem, whose paper was titled, ‘Evolving sustainable academic curriculum for poverty alleviation’, said that an acceptable academic curriculum should promote excellence in morality, spirituality, innovation, invention, entrepreneurship and research.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]