Alumni donate multipurpose classrooms to UI international school
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

old pupils of the University of Ibadan International School, Class of 1989, have donated three modern multipurpose classrooms to the school.

The former pupils, who converged in Ibadan in the school premises, for a reunion after 30 years of passing out of their alma mater, were full of gratitude for the kind of education they received at the school, which had help to shape their lives.

The 1989 set, numbering 105 out of 160 pupils that finished from the school was coordinated by an Aerospace engineer, Mrs Olaponle Fasehun.

The alumni presented the multipurpose classrooms, valued at N16.32m, to the school as part of their contribution to its progress.

Speaking on behalf of her schoolmates, Fasehun said the purpose for gathering at the expansive school premises was to unveil the classrooms and to celebrate the school.

“Today is also a bitter sweet day as it is also the start of the day that brings to a close the festivities, we, as a set have undertaken to mark 30 long years since we graduated from this ISI”.

While admonishing the current pupils in the school, she said, “Our story and connection to this beautiful institution began on a day that was very much like today, sometime in September 1984. We were, very much like you, dropped off by our parents, guardians or delegates.

“We were excited and nervous to meet and make new friends and heartened when we also saw familiar faces from primary school.

“We excitedly navigated the grounds as instructed and then came the moment that would forever change the course of our lives. In fact, had we known how momentous the occasion was back then, we would have paid more attention.

“For five long years between 1984 and 1989, we dutifully attended this school, absorbed as much as we could, worked hard, played hard and forged lifelong friendships. It was an idyllic upbringing.

“Upon graduation, as expected, we were dispersed into the world at large, where we all quietly excelled and made new lives for ourselves as adults.”

The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ibadan, Prof Idowu Olayinka, called on the management of the 56 year-old school not to allow any distraction take its toll on its enviable academic performance.

He lauded members of the 1989 set of the school for their gesture..

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]