TETFUND reviews projects in schools, varsities
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Tertiary Education Trust Fund has constituted an impact assessment committee to review its projects and interventions carried out in secondary schools and universities across the country in the period between 1999 and 2018.

The Fund noted that the Technical Advisory Committee on Impact Assessment would review Education Trust Fund interventions from 1999 to 2010 and TETFund interventions from 2011 to 2018.

TETFund’s Executive Secretary, Prof Suleiman Bogoro, stated this in Abuja on Thursday at a meeting of the heads of beneficiary universities and other institutions.

Bogoro said the impact assessment committee comprised 62 members and is chaired by Prof Nazifi Darma and Prof Placid Njoku.

Stressing that the committee is expected to turn in its report by Friday, November 29, 2019, he added, “You will recall the monumental decay in the education sector at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels, which led to the Academic Staff Union of Universities request to government to address the situation. This culminated in the establishment of the then Education Trust Fund in 1993 by the Federal Government and the imposition of two per cent education tax on companies operating in Nigeria.

“In the 20 years of its interventions, TETFund has never presented itself for self-evaluation or examination. Impact assessment, which we are about to undertake, is a contemporary phenomenon for reviewing and assessing progress made by any organisation.

“The terms of reference of the committee are as follows: To carry out an impact assessment of ETF interventions from 1999 to 2010; carry out impact assessment of TETFund interventions from 2011 to 2018; and to determine the levels of implementation of ETF and TETFund mandates and effectiveness.

“Others are to determine the achievements, challenges and weaknesses recorded and observed in the course of implementation of existing projects, programmes and intervention lines of the Fund.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]