Soludo calls on FG to review schools’ curricula
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

A former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Prof Charles Soludo, has called on the Federal Government to review the curricula of primary and secondary schools in the country to include issues on public health.

Solduo said it was important to have a healthy and educated population, adding that quality education would also help to improve the health of the people, especially women.

He made this statement while delivering a lecture at the 26th Annual Forum of the Lift Above Poverty Organisation in Abuja. The forum was themed, ‘The Nigerian Health Care Situation: The way forward.’

The former CBN governor added, “Education is key to effective health care. The Nigerian constitution provides for free and compulsory primary education, as well as free secondary education. It is my view that primary and secondary education, with appropriate new curricula for public health, should be made compulsory in Nigeria, especially for girls.

“Qualitative education for our girls holds the critical key to unleash Nigeria’s developmental momentum. As the saying goes, the hand that cradles the child, rules the world. About 42 per cent of the Nigerian population is between ages 0 and 15 and largely under the care of their mothers. It is difficult to see how we can solve the problem of maternal, new-born and child deaths without the empowerment of girls through qualitative education.

“The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals number three envisions that by 2030, all countries should ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages. There are about 13 specific targets to meet this goal. From all indications, Nigeria is set to miss the targets, except some dramatic and systematic reforms are initiated and sustained from now until 2030.”

The LAPO Chief Executive Officer, Dr Godwin Ehigiamusoe, noted that the forum was a platform for stakeholders to address critical development challenges and present its recommendations.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]