Review recruitment process for teachers – Group
Samson Folarin

An educational group, Degrees and Careers, has advised the Federal Government to review the recruitment process for primary and secondary schools.

The Lead Counsellor of the group, Ademiluyi Ademola, said unqualified teachers were the bane of the education sector.

He spoke on Thursday during a briefing held in Lagos to announce a literary, essay and debate competition for secondary schools and A-level students in the country.

All applicants, according to the group leader, will be required to write an essay on the topic, ‘Holistic Education: The Solution to Nigeria’s Socio-economic Challenges.’

Ademola, who spoke to our correspondent, noted that one of the challenges facing the education sector was the prevalence of unqualified people.

He said, “The government should improve the recruitment process of teachers because when you visit public schools, you will find unqualified teachers. There is a process they went through before they got the job. The government can make sure that the right people get the job.

“Teaching, for me, is something innate. So, it does not matter if you are getting a lot from it. I have met teachers who derive pleasure from educating their students. The issue of high salaries for teachers will be a secondary thing if we have the right teachers in schools.”

Ademola said the LEAD competition, which was aimed at promoting proper usage of English among secondary school students, was also to give back to society.

He said entries would open on Monday, November 18 and close Friday, December 20, 2019. The first prize would attract a cash price of N2m, the second prize, N1m, and the third prize, N500,000.

The three other finalists, he said, would get plaques and N150,000 each.

“The LEAD Competition is organised by Degrees and Careers, one of the eight organisations under the MOD Group. We are a unique educational counseling community where students can learn everything they need to know about high-in-demand career, speak with dedicated counsellors for guidance, find out where to study their preferred course and see officers on genuine scholarships around the world and discover lasting solutions to their academic challenges,” Ademola added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]