CPE seeks financial support for low-cost schools
Samson Folarin

A social media group, Concerned Parents and Educators, has asked the Lagos State Government to give financial support to low-cost private schools to address the problem of out-of-school children in the state.

The group administrator, Yinka Ogunde, spoke during a tour of schools in the Mushin area of Lagos.

Ogunde, who led members of the group to six low-cost schools, paid tuition fees for selected indigent pupils in the area.

She told our correspondent that the funds were raised by members of a Facebook group that included Nigerians in the Diaspora, who were concerned about the financial condition of residents of the area.

Explaining that the outreach was among several initiatives of the group, the consultant said, “We feel that if we are genuinely concerned, we should not just stay as a Facebook group, we should do something and that led us into various projects.

“Although what we are doing may appear little, we believe in this kind of community. That was why we also involved the pupils’ parents so that they would not have to worry about paying the school fees again.

“Aside from paying school fees, we have also helped such schools, in terms of facilities. We have donated books, toys, tables, chairs, book shelves, among other things.”

The leader of the group lamented that the only government-owned primary school in the Mushin area was located far away from many residents, adding that the low-cost schools offered a social service that made up for the inadequacy.

Ogunde said she hoped that her group’s gesture would draw attention to the plight of many parents struggling to send their children to school.

Our correspondent learnt that the low-cost schools are under the control of the Association of Formidable Educators of Nigeria.

The CPE leader said financial support could boost the capacity of the schools.

“In Lagos alone, AFEN has about 6,000 registered low-cost schools; there are many others who are not even registered under them. The government can support them by improving the skills of their teachers and helping with facilities. They can also give them some form of tax reliefs. It will not even be out of place if government gives them subvention,” she added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]