Delta school reopens after herdsmen attack
Delta State Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, Chief Patrick Ukah, has commended the principal, teachers and pupils of Azagba Mixed Secondary School, Issele Azagba in Aniocha North Local Government Area of the state, for their impressive turn-out when the school resumed for academic activities recently.

The school had been shut down, following an attack by suspected Fulani herdsmen, who invaded the school and kidnapped the principal and some teachers on Monday, October, 14, 2019.

The victims of the attack were rescued on the same day through the combined efforts of the community vigilante, the Police and other security agencies.

Ukah, who expressed his happiness that the school had reopened, thanked the traditional ruler of the community, His Royal Highness, Obi Francis Ijeh, the Police, members of the community vigilante and other stakeholders for making the reopening of the school possible.

The Commissioner, represented by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Comrade Sam Dietake, gave the principal, teachers and pupils of the school the assurance that adequate security arrangements would be made to ensure their safety and an uninterrupted academic calendar with the establishment of security posts around the school and regular police patrols in the area.

Ukah urged the pupils not to allow the attack to affect their future and ambition. He also charged them to tell other pupils who had not returned to school to do so immediately.

The Principal of the school, Mrs. Bridget Onyeche, thanked the commissioner, permanent secretary and other directors of the ministry for their show of love and concern for those injured during the attack and were hospitalised.

She said that since government had done everything possible to encourage the school to reopen, they staff and management would do their best to ensure that the pupils meet up with the school calendar, despite the number of days lost due to the closure of the school.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]