Bowen varsity to set up Super-DERN system
Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo

The Vice-Chancellor of Bowen University, Iwo, Osun State, Prof Joshua Ogunwole, on Monday said the institution had concluded arrangements to set up a Super Dual Equatorial Radar Network System.

Speaking during a briefing organised by the university to announce the activities for its 14th convocation, Ogunwole said the facility would be the first of its kind in Africa and the world at large

The vice-chancellor added that the system was installed on the campus to aid the study of atmospheric physics in the university.

He said the project was accomplished in collaboration with the Virginia State University, USA and the National Space Research and Development Agency.

“We have established collaboration with the Virginia State University in the USA and the National Space Research and Development Agency for the development of Super Dual Equatorial Radar Network System to aid the study of atmospheric physics and monitor the equator.

“Ahead of this project, a Global Positioning System has already been mounted. Also this is the first of its kind in the world to measure scintillating and total electron,” Ogunwole said.

On the institution’s convocation, Ogunwole said 868 graduands would be conferred with first and post graduate degrees.

He said 56 of the of the graduands finished with First Class, 302 with Second Class Upper, 375 with Second Class Lower and 66 with third Class Honours.

The vice-chancellor also said the current President of the African Development Bank, Dr Akinwumi Adeshina, would deliver the convocation lecture titled, ‘Africa’s Future : Positioning University to Nurture and Develop Entrepreneurial Initiatives’, on November 2.

He added that the ADB president would also be honoured with a Doctor of Entrepreneurship, Honoris Causa, during the event.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]