Sports almost denied me SAT perfect score –Valedictorian
Tare Youdeowei

The Valedictorian at the 16 Plus Sixth Form School, Samuel Adekunle, has said his love for sports nearly cost him Scholastic Assessment Test perfect score of 1,600 over 1,600 in Mathematics and Physics.

Adekunle made this known on Saturday at the Valedictory Dinner for the Class of 2019 held at the school’s premises in Ilupeju, Lagos where 45 students graduated.

The valedictorian, who also bagged the British Council’s Outstanding Learner Award for being Top in Country in Additional Mathematics and Information Communication Technology, said, “I think it has mostly been personal determination. Before I took the examination I told my teacher that I must get a perfect score. It was not something that just happened, we had been working towards it. I missed breaks and holidays, as well as sat for countless tests. It was stressful but at the end of the day it paid off.

“However, sports was a major distraction in achieving my goal. I would want to go to the hall to read but the table tennis board or the basketball or football would be there and I would toss my books away and start playing. That was one thing I had to learn how to curtail even though I had always been a straight A student ever since I entered secondary school.”

Adekunle also credited his parents for his success as they ensured he read his books ahead of every session. He, however, advised other students that want to excel not to look at academic feats as impossibilities.

“These feats are not impossible or difficult, they actually aren’t. It is all about starting. In this life, anything worth doing cannot be achieved without starting. Don’t delay reading for tests or exams. The earlier you start the better. It is never too late for anybody, put in a lot of efforts and work towards your goal. Once you have that personal focus and determination, I think there is nothing stopping you from getting what you want,” he said.

On her part, the Director of the school, Ivie Okpanachi, congratulated the students who achieved milestones that included a Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination best score of 293 over 400 and an average score of 95 in the Test of English as a Foreign Language examination, to mention a few.

“We appreciate our dear parents for their support in various ways, as well as our staff for all the hard work, commitment and passion,” she said.

The Guest Speaker, Ayodele Jaiyesimi, also congratulated the parents and students, and urged them to build on the solid foundation that had been laid in them.

Jaiyesimi, who is also the Chief Executive Officer of Thespian Family Theatre and Production, said, “The quality of how your turns out depends on how you perceive things, so use the values you have been taught here as a guide on perception. Bear in mind that challenges will come and these are meant to shape you. The harder they come, the higher you rise. As such, as you are going into the real world, know that the only thing that will see you through is holding on to who you really are. Let your light shine and let the world see the goodness of who you are.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]