‘Nigeria’s growing population’ll produce more frustrated youths’
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

A Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Emmanuel Otolorin, has said that the nation’s growing population will produce more frustrated youths.

Otolorin made the observation in Ibadan while delivering a lecture at the first annual Prof. Babatunde Osotimehin National Reproductive Health Legacy Forum put together by the Academy For Health Development with the support of Partnership for Advocacy in Child and Family Health at Scale.

The don, while speaking on the theme, ‘Meeting Family Planning 2020 Goal: Whither Nigeria’, stressed that the biggest challenge confronting the country was insecurity created by frustrated youths turning to terrorists, kidnappers and cattle rustlers.

The Senior Regional Programmatic and Technical Advisor added that the uneducated and unemployed were easy targets for radicalisation for political violence and terrorism. “Many were abandoned by their parents to fend for themselves on the streets from where they have been recruited to cause mayhem in the country.

“While the governments at all levels are striving to curb this spate of criminality, our rapid population continues to produce more and more frustrated youths who feel the country does not care about them. Those of us who have been giving warnings about this danger are now vindicated by the current happenings in the country,” Otolorin said.

The professor pointed out that the high population growth also had implications on the number of health personnel required in the country, as the human resources situation in the health sector was a critical for improving the population’s health.

“Let’s examine the number of doctors that would be required just to maintain current levels of health care services. The number of doctors required in 2017 was 72,000. Assuming that the average population per doctor ratio remains constant at about 2,650 persons per doctor, with high population growth continued, the required number of doctors would be more than double to 165,000 by 2050,” he explained.

Delving into the education sector, Otolorin hinted that the number of primary school pupils to be educated in the future would directly affect the expenditure required to finance the country’s primary education system.

Just as he opined that as the population of primary pupils grow, the total amount that would be spent on primary education had to increase in order to maintain the current level of service.

Otolorin advised the government to implement policies that would slow down the rapid population growth if the country expected an improvement in its life expectancy and the quality of life of the citizens.

He warned that any delay would worsen the challenges the country faced and the future of its younger generation would not be assured.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]