Falola seeks more professorial chairs to boost research
Tare Youdeowei

A professor of history from the University of Texas, Toyin Falola, has called for endowment of more professorial chairs in universities to boost educational revitalisation.

Falola made the call while delivering the 2018/2019 annual lecture of the University of Lagos’s School of Postgraduate Studies, titled ‘Distinguishment: The Values and Magnets of Endowments to Universities; recently in Akoka, Lagos.

He noted that research endeavours were vital to the sustenance of any civilization as through it, knowledge would be discovered and created.

“The expectation is for endowed chairs to take the excellent research and teaching activities of the best professors to a much higher level so as to justify the special recognition ascribed to them and accorded to the institutions they represent.

“Their contributions should make a far-reaching impact as agents of tremendous transformation, even if some choose to be provocateurs and controversialists. Knowledge produced by way of such research heavily relies on data extracted from practical settings and to which it must add value.

“To bring the foregoing to a conclusive end therefore, as in the case of Nigeria, where universities and other tertiary institutions are in dire need of revitalization and critical reforms that can encourage upward mobility in the ranks of knowledge drivers, the need for the establishment of more endowed professorial chairs and the continuity of those extant, is ensconced in their immense benefit to the academic community and the public,” Falola submitted.

In his remark, the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, said the institution was set up to produce manpower for the country and its development.

Ogundipe, who was represented by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Development Services, Prof. Folashade Ogunsola, added that postgraduate programmes expressed the most important parts of the vision and mission of the institution and, over time, had carried forward the vision with qualitative programmes.

According to him, the re-launching of the Postgraduate Trust Fund was also aimed at providing additional funds for research and the high level manpower needs of the country.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]