NOUN, EFCC plan course, as 500 prisoners enrol for degrees
Friday Olokor and Olaleye Aluko

The National Open University of Nigeria has partnered the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to check Internet fraud, its Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Abdalla Adamu, has said.

According to him, the partnership would be complemented with the introduction of an academic programme to combat the menace popularly known as ‘yahoo yahoo’.

Adamu stated this in Abuja on Monday during the inauguration of the Africa Centre of Excellence in Technology Enhanced Learning.

The PUNCH reported that while identifying NOUN as a critical stakeholder in the fight against economic crimes in Nigeria, the EFCC Director of Organisational Support, Aminu Gusau, requested the introduction of such courses.

According to him, the request was sequel to a proposal made by the acting Chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu.

“Learning institutions are the best place to start engaging youths as partners in the fight against crime. Whether we like it or not, you are real stakeholders in this fight against corruption. We are trying to see the best ways to collaborate,” he said.

However, Adamu expressed concern over the high rate of cybercrime among youths, as he said the course would, among other things, focus on the ethical use of the Internet, including sending a strong message to Internet fraudsters in the country.

The VC said, “Dr Aminu Gusau has raised a very critical component which we have missed completely because we are blinded by technology; the fact that technology is used in many wrong ways. That is why in Nigeria we have a lot of young boys who are Internet scammers. So, I think it will be a very good idea if we include the EFCC as part of the inspectorial partners in order to develop a short course on the ethical use of the Internet.

“On behalf of the university, we have appointed Gusau and the executive chairman as central partners in developing a programme on ICT ethics for younger people so that we can reduce the rate of Internet fraud that Nigeria has come to be well known for.”

Meanwhile, NOUN has said that over 500 prisoners across the country are currently studying various bachelors’ degrees for free.

Adamu said this during a visit to the Federal Ministry of Education, accompanied by the President of Commonwealth of Learning, Prof. Aisha Kanwar.

While meeting with the Permanent Secretary, Mr Sonny Echono, the VC reiterated that all prisoners were entitled to free education at the university’s centres to their desired level.

Also, the President of the Commonwealth of Learning, Prof. Aisha Kanwar appealed to the permanent secretary to ensure Nigeria’s payment of annual dues to the organisation, as she requested that the country appointed a representative to the Commonwealth of Learning to replace Hajiya Katagum who had successfully served her tenure with the organisation.

The Permanent Secretary, Echono, said a provision had been made for the payment under the 2019 budget, noting that the ministry would meet its obligation.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]