Xenophobia: NANS plans nationwide protest
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The leadership of the National Association of Nigerian Students said on Monday that it would embark on a nationwide protest against the reported killing of Nigerians living in South Africa.

The NANS National President, Danielson Akpan, who stated this in an interview in Abuja, said the students’ body was disappointed in the way the Federal Government dragged on the xenophobic attacks in South Africa, adding that the nationwide protests were to demand the intervention of the international community on the killings.

Akpan had last Thursday condemned the suspected murder of a Deputy Director-General of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria, Mrs Elizabeth Ndubuisi, in her hotel room in South Africa, noting that the national students’ body would mobilise the “over 40 million Nigerian students to shut down South African businesses in Nigeria.”

On Monday, the president said, “We are going to hit the streets and let Nigerians and the international community know that students are not folding their arms concerning the violence in South Africa. We want to state that if the international organisations have been silent about these killings and the two national governments are doing virtually nothing about it, we can do something.

“No South African has been harassed or killed on our soil, and their businesses are thriving every day. Look at MTN, DSTV, GOTV, Shoprite and others. Why is South Africa acting as if we are in a state of war? A lot of Nigerian citizens are running helter skelter and without government protection.

[READ ALSO] Joshua: Ruiz rules out UK rematch

“Our protests will be sudden. We will not disclose any time. Our actions will speak for themselves. Nigerian students are disappointed in the way the Federal Government is managing this issue. It didn’t just start with this government; it dates back to the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan.

“If the country had risen and said no to the South African violence at that time, we will not be here. And on a daily basis, these harassments and killings are increasing in that country.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]