SSANU, NASU protest grounds UI
Tunde Oyekola, Ademola Babalola, Olaide Oyelude and Peter Dada

The Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities and the Non-Academic Staff Union, University of Ibadan branch, on Monday, began a three-day protest to demand N30bn earned allowance. The protest is also against Federal Government’s refusal to obey court judgment on staff school salaries.

The peaceful protest which drew scores of affected workers to the main gate of the institution, affected smooth vehicular movement in and out of the school premises.

The protesting workers were armed with placards with inscriptions that read, “We demand N30bn to pay part of our earned allowance now;” “FG, stop provoking inter-union crises in Nigerian universities;” “FG, please obey court judgment on staff school,” among others.

The Chairman, UI-SSANU, Wale Akinremi, flanked by other union leaders said, “any nation that treats education the way we treat ours in Nigeria will never be destined for greatness.”

Akinremi said the protest would be followed by a branch protest and the ‘mother of all protests’ at the national level.

Last week, the national bodies of both unions had frowned on the alleged preferential treatment extended to Academic Staff Union of Universities by the Federal Government as seen in the allocation of 80 per cent of monies released, leaving the non-academic staff with 20 per cent.

In a resolution reached after its meeting read by the Chairman of the Joint Action Committee and National President of SSANU, Mr Samson Ugwoke, the non-teaching university workers rejected the 20 per cent earned allowance allocated to the three non-teaching unions.

The committee called on the Federal Government to, as a matter of urgency, release N30bn earned allowance of non-teaching staff within the period of 2009 and 2016.

Ugwoke who stressed that the protest was aimed at sending a notice of strike to the Federal Government, called on its members to ensure full compliance with the directive to show its relevance to the university system.

He said, “We reject in total the 20 per cent allocated to our members, rather we demand from the Federal Government the sum of N30bn as part of the earned allowance of non-teaching staff from 2009 to 2016 and we call on the government to hasten the audit of university earned allowances so that we will know how much was paid to who and how much is left.

“The way and manner the money is being shared contrary to any known accounting procedure or any known international best practice should be condemned by all, it is rather a fraud. This house calls it a fraud and calls for an investigation. We call and demand that the government should release, as a matter of urgency, N30bn for non-teaching staff.

“The JAC has approved protests from the branches, protests at the zonal levels of our unions and mother of all protests in Abuja for three days, before a deadline is given to the government for the mother of all strikes that will follow. The protest will commence on Monday 15th July 2019,” he said.

Also, the National Vice President of SSANU, South West Zone, Mr Alfred Ilesanmi, has lamented that the welfare of members was not being taken care of as expected.

He accused most vice-chancellors of universities in Nigeria of preferring to deal with the members of ASUU at the expense of the non-academic staff.

Ilesanmi stated this while speaking with journalists at the quarterly meeting of the association held at the Federal University of Technology, Akure, Ondo State.

The meeting was held to review and update the zonal members of the activities of the union as well as look into the welfare of its members at various branches.

He said, “The major problem is that most VCs see themselves as members of ASUU and they always want to satisfy themselves because of their selfish interest. However, a few of them who know their onions have always done the right thing.

“If you go to universities in other parts of the country, they are not the same, some VCs don’t want to see non-teaching staff, some are ready to malign and marginalise the non-teaching staff in the system. As such, the welfare of our members has not got to where we want it to be.

“The welfare of everybody must be taken into consideration, not that some people will be looked after while some others will be regarded as second class citizens within the system,” the labour leader advised.

Meanwhile, SSANU and NASU chapters in Umaru Musa Ya’ardua University, Katsina, did not join in the nationwide warning strike declared by their national associations.

The SSANU chairman of the university, Sahalu Hassan, told The PUNCH that the national headquarters of the two unions were yet to officially notify members in the institution of the warning strike.

Hassan said, “As of this(Monday) morning, our national headquarters were yet to officially notify us of the warning strike. Once we receive letters on the strike, we shall convey a congress and we shall abide by whatever decision arrived at by the congress on the strike. But for now, nobody has officially notified us of the warning strike; maybe the letter will come later in the day.”

It was observed on Monday that SSANU and NASU members at the university were at their various duty posts as at 1 p.m.

However, the Vice-Chancellor of Kwara State University, Prof. Abdulrasheed Na’Allah, has appealed to members of the unions to embrace dialogue in resolving issues in the interest of the nation.

Na’Allah made the appeal during a briefing on Saturday where he cautioned that resorting to strike as a means of resolving problems would affect the academic system in the country.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]