Invasion: NABTEB writes IG, says Nov/Dec exams grounded
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The National Business and Technical Examinations Board has submitted a petition to the office of the Inspector-General of Police to intervene and restrain policemen who allegedly stormed the board’s office in Abuja and carted away examination and office equipment.

NABTEB stated this on Thursday during a press conference, adding that since the police invasion, examination activities had been grounded.

The board is presently preparing for the 2019 November and December examinations.

Our correspondent had reported on Wednesday that policemen attached to the IG Special Task Force Squad allegedly invaded and sealed the NABTEB office in the Wuse area on Saturday evening, carting away some office and examination materials.

The policemen were said to have acted on the orders of “faceless individuals reported to have bought over the NABTEB office,” with the police invasion leading to the paralysis of activities at the board’s office.

The NABTEB Principal Legal Officer, Mrs Imandojemu Shirley, who spoke for the Registrar, Prof. Ifeoma Abanihe, said the Federal Government had lost millions of naira as a “result of the nefarious activities of these unscrupulous agents.”

She said, “The unidentified men allegedly claimed to be from the Inspector-General of Police Special Tactical Squad Force Headquarters, Abuja. They arrested two of the board’s security officers and a worker, detained them and locked up the premises. The staff were released on July 14.

“They broke into the premises of the board and vandalised the building. The air conditioners were removed from their sockets, while other items in the offices were moved. The Director, at the Zonal Office, Mrs Ruth Popoola, was asked to report to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad office at the Old Abattoir Road to make enquires about the cause of the arrest and she was also detained.

“Since the incident, workers of the board have not been able to access the office to carry out their lawful duties and all examination activities have been grounded.

“The Federal Government has lost millions of naira as a result of the nefarious activities of these unscrupulous agents as NABTEB is a Federal Government agency which conducts examinations for candidates in Business and Technical Education for admission into tertiary institutions for the world of work and for admission into tertiary institutions.

“As a law-abiding entity, NABTEB took this matter to court and we refrain from making any comments or taking any actions that might be sub judice.

“However, we have already reported the matter to the supervisory ministry which is the Federal Ministry of Education. We have also written a petition to the Inspector-General of Police to quickly intervene and restrain these alleged officers from further invasion of NABTEB’s property and unlock our offices to allow our workers to have unfettered access in order to perform their lawful duties.”

The registrar added that despite the police invasion, prospective candidates should proceed to other NABTEB offices where registration for its 2019 November and December examinations would be carried out.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]