Jextoban is fulfilling its mission – Ojo
Tare Youdeowei

The Chairman, Board of Governors of Jextoban Secondary School in Ibafo, Ogun State, Pastor Emmanuel Ojo, has said the school is achieving its mission of producing the crème of pupils the nation needs.

Ojo made this known at the 21st Valedictory Service and Graduation of the Class of 2019 on Saturday, where he charged parents to encourage their children to offer Nigerian languages up to Senior Secondary class three, as the school had put in efforts to ensure that they did not go into extinction.

He said, “We are gradually fulfilling our mission as our pupils in universities are graduating with first class. Over 20 of our old students have graduated with first class across the world.

“I congratulate you, parents, and appreciate your support. You will eat the fruit of your labour. However, I advise that you make friends with your children so you can neutralise bad traits that might try to creep into their lives when they go to institutions of higher learning.”

Charging the 72 graduates, the guest of honour, Prof. Anthonia Ogbera, advised the pupils to ensure they completed their education and avoided get-rich-quick schemes.

The medical doctor said, “This is just a starting point in your life, a part of your larger journey, as such, do not rest on your oars. I advise that you stay away from get-rich-quick schemes and even career choices that will deter you from furthering your education. Even if you decide to become a footballer or musician, ensure you complete your education. While doing that, learn a new skill.

“Start now to reflect on your life and plan for the next phase of your life. Develop an audacious plan, dream big, believe in yourself and leave your comfort zone when planning. Write your personal mission statement. Do all these and they will give you a direction in life.

“Think outside the box when choosing a course to study in the university. Pick a university that best serves your chosen course. Also, while chasing your dream, do not let anyone talk you down, be steadfast and you will succeed,” Ogbera implored.

The host principal, Victor Aigbefoh, urged the pupils to let their light shine by making good use of the values and morals the school had imparted to them. “The education you have received here has equipped you to contribute to nation-building. The school has also imparted you with the ability to be interested in self-development; do not let go of it.

“This 2019 set will make great contributions to humanity and achieve their goals. As such, make use of the values of life we taught you. Protect and uphold the good name of your school, your family and yourself. Be good ambassadors,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]