800 pupils get reward for academic excellence
Tare Youdeowei

Over 800 primary and secondary school pupils in the South-West, have been honoured by the International Academy for the Gifted for their excellent performance in the American Mathematics Competition and the Kangarou Sans Frontiers in the past year.

The pupils were presented with medals at an event held in their honour at the Ambassadors School, in Ota, Ogun State last Saturday.

According to the National Coordinator of the academy, Mr Oyebola Fabowale, the awardees recorded scores that put them in good standing internationally. “This means that they achieved 50 per cent and above in the competition which is taken by children of similar ages in over 100 countries of the world. These ones have competed favourably with their peers and brought glory, not only to their schools but to Nigeria.”

Besides coordinating the AMC and KSF in Nigeria, Fabowale said the academy organises training for teachers to update their knowledge and methods to help their pupils do better in Mathematics.

On his part, the Consultant for IAGifted, Prof. Adewale Solarin, said by encouraging children to participate in the competition, Nigeria was gradually grooming pupils who could win medals in international Mathematics Olympiads.

“AMC is the process they follow to be able to win medals in International Maths olympiads. We achieved the goals we set. All the Nigerians getting medals in the Olympiads participated in the AMC. By 2015 we included the KSF which started right from primary one because we realised that waiting till they got to secondary school was not advantageous,” said the professor of algebra.

Solarin, a former Director-General of the National Mathematics Centre, also acknowledged a pupil of the Ambassadors College, Oluwatamilore Odunsi, who won two medals in the Pan African Mathematics Olympiad.

The parent of one of the star pupils, Mrs Christiana Ojeli, was impressed that her son, Dominion, a JSS3 pupil of Imperial Lite College, Gowon Estate, could win a medal, considering that he was not regarded the brightest in his class.

Dominion’s teacher, Mrs Adetutu Bailey, said she was surprised by his performance. “I was surprised when I saw it. When the result came, they said Adejare Mayowa and Dominion Ojeli were the best in our school. I would not have picked him among my top students. This shows that any child can do well,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]