Low-cost education key to increasing enrolment – AFED
Tare Youdeowei

The Association for Formidable Educational Development has said that the key to reducing the alarming population of out-of-school children is to promote low-cost education.

The association, which is made of up low-cost modular schools, made this known through its president, Mr Emmanuel Kanu, on Monday, at a press briefing to announce its maiden edition of the Africa Education Conference.

Kanu said, “The United Nations has articulated plans and put machinery in motion to actualise the Sustainable Development Goal Four which focuses on building responsible citizens through education. It seeks to have all girls and boys access free, equitable and quality primary and secondary education by 2030.

“In its desire to see this goal achieved within the set time, the association would be holding the first Africa Education Conference on July 25 and 26, to discuss the theme, The SDGs Educational Target: Facts and Fictions. We will be addressing the multifaceted problems facing education by examining facts about the SDGs and their possible realisable features.”

The association also said time had come for the country’s educational development to go beyond wishful thinking to becoming a conscious contribution of everyone involved in the sector in the effort to address the issue of out-of-school children with sincerity.

“We think the UN should not only talk about targets without supporting member nations with innovative ideas such as low-cost education system that can help in achieving the SDGs. We, therefore, implore the UN and other international organisations to reconsider its stand on the belief that only state-owned schools can be efficient in achieving the SDGs.

“They should also reconsider partnering with non-state actors like AFED to make the objectives achievable on time. It is high time the UN and international organisations supporting education development in sub-Saharan Africa changed their stand on state-owned and low-cost schools,” Kanu said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]