CKF advises 240 schoolgirls on careers growth
Tare Youdeowei

The Christopher Kolade Foundation has held a Post-secondary Career Planning Conference for girls from 10 public secondary schools across Lagos State.

The conference held recently at Zone Tech Park in Gbagada, Lagos, saw 240 girls advised on building distinguishing traits necessary to succeed at job interviews and transitioning to responsible adulthood.

The Chairperson of the foundation, Mrs Beatrice Kolade said the conference was to create a platform for the schoolgirls to interact with industry players who would guide them on choosing a career. “We normally hold a valedictory program for our school leavers to train them to know that this is not the end of their school career. Although we are saying goodbye to them, we are saying to them ‘there is still life ahead of you’. It is a career planning programme and that’s why we have people to talk to them, like lawyers and engineers, to tell them how to make up their mind and choose the careers they want to follow.”

Also, the Managing Consultant of the foundation, Omobola Lana said the conference was aimed at exposing the girls to the myriad career options they could pursue. “Our impact is really long term because the girls may decide to use technology to further their own respective parts. This is more of career exploration; we are trying to broaden their minds and as a result, we had to find partners who have personnel in those parts so they can come and share the experience with the girls.

“In one year of our experience, we have seen a change in the minds of the girl and their aspiration. We do not choose for their paths but we want to make sure they understand the paths they take as we make sure to keep track with them.”

An attendee, Aderonke Ikumapaya, shared how the foundation had taught her to be bold as she was set to follow her dream of studying Electrical Engineering. “I have gained a lot from the leadership training on how to make up my mind and on technology. I want to study Electrical Engineering.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]