Delta to set up endowment fund for schools
Ochei Matthew, Asaba

In a bid to move the education sector forward, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has disclosed that the state government is ready to establish an Education Endowment Fund for primary and secondary schools in the state.

Okowa, who disclosed this on Wednesday in Asaba during the Annual Conference and General Meeting of the Delta State chapter of the Institute of Strategic Management, explained that since the education sector was the backbone of society, the state government had decided to set up an endowment fund to ensure that Deltans had access to quality education under a conducive learning environment.

He said, “The education sector is very vital to our economy because it is the breeding ground where future doctors, lawyers, even governors, are groomed and nurtured. However, if we are faced with recession again, subventions to schools will be reduced and maintenance of our schools and ensuring that our pupils get the best education will be restricted but if our schools had endowment funds, with or without the allocations, the schools will be well taken care of. So, with that in mind, the state government will soon be establishing the Education Endowment Fund for schools across the state.”

The governor, represented by the Commissioner for Higher Education, Prof. Patrick Muoboghare, emphasised the importance of partnership between the state government and the private sector to improve the economy of the state.

He explained that the development of any sector could not be achieved by the government alone but required the input and support of the private sector.

He noted that the can country only improve when investments are brought into the country and policies that will strategically strengthen the economy are implemented.

“As a government, we have been doing our very best to improve our economy and strengthen our infrastructure but we cannot do it alone, we not only need the partnership of the private sector but we have to ensure that policies that have been strategically designed to improve our economy is implemented,” the governor said.

He added that the state did not just need strategists but policies that would be innovative and in line with global trends.

The Chairman, ISMN, Delta State chapter, Sir, Frank Apokwu said that ISMN was a world-class professional management association that specialises in strategic management, leadership and governance.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]