Gombe teachers seek school feeding to increase enrolment
Chima Azubuike, Gombe

Teachers and pupils in Gombe State have called on the Federal Government and relevant authorities in charge of the National Home Grown School Feeding Programme to intensify efforts towards the provision of meals for school children in an attempt to combat the dwindling population in schools.

One of such teachers is the Head Teacher of Tidi Primary School Burak, Jemima Dogo, who said further delay in continuing the feeding programme and the resultant drop in population might be a challenge in the near future if not checked.

“Many pupils have stopped coming to school since the commencement of this term. At the moment, we have just 155 pupils unlike previous terms when the number grew to 400. Ever since they realized that the food vendors were no longer coming a majority of them stopped coming.

“We are still hopeful that they will return as soon as the programme is resuscitated. A beautiful programme such as this should never be tampered with because of the huge impact in the educational system. It has increased the number of pupils and their quest for western education,” Dogo said.

Also, a staff of Bubayero Primary School, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, told our correspondent that the number of pupils in had dropped significantly. “We have been experiencing a decline in the number of school children ever since the term commenced. When the programme started the population significantly increased. We had 171 males and 121 females in primary one in 2018 but this year we had 70 males and 64 females in primary one. Parents used to beg for their wards to be part of the system. Pupils told their friends of the great opportunity of being fed once daily but all that is fast reducing as most of them now prefer to be outside.

Dauda Musa, a primary three pupil of Bubayero Primary School, disclosed, through an interpreter, that his class had been empty since the beginning of the term.

He said, “Some of my friends no longer come to school. This began when we noticed the absence of food vendors from our school. I have chosen to stay because I was in school before the school feeding program began. My parents are able to provide for me with or without the school feeding programme.”

The traditional ruler of Kaltungo chiefdom in Burak, Shongom Local Government Area of Gombe State, His Royal Highness Gondak Garba, in the same vein called for adequate structures and policies that would encourage girl-child education in the state and Northern Nigeria.

Garba said, “There are policies which ordinarily attract young people, especially girls, to school and if such are provided by the government it will go a long way at improving their interest in school. The school feeding programme is one of them. The government must also be willing to use punitive measures to deal with parents who do not embrace girl child education. This will go a long way in mitigating child labour and all forms of abuse.”

When our correspondent spoke with the state consultant for the school feeding programme, Zana Ibrahim, he said funding was the reason the programme was yet to commence for the term. “Funding is the challenge. A while ago during my visit to Abuja, funding was discussed as the major reason for the temporary break; you know it is from the Ministry of Economic Planning and it is paid by the Central Bank of Nigeria. We usually intimate them on the need to resolve funding challenges, there is no cause for alarm, once other states are mobilised Gombe too will get its share and mobilise the relevant stakeholders.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]