91 pupils bag 125 Outstanding Cambridge Learner Awards
Tare Youdeowei

No fewer than 91 top-performing pupils from 46 schools in Nigeria have received 125 Outstanding Cambridge Learner Awards, following their performance in the November 2017 and June 2018 Cambridge examination series.

The award ceremony, hosted by Cambridge International and the British Council at the Civic Centre in Victoria Island, Lagos, last Friday, also saw the British Council recognise partner schools from the Partner Schools Global Network that exemplified best practices for equality, diversity and inclusion, as well as child protection.

While congratulating the pupils, their teachers and principals, the Territory Manager for Nigeria, Cambridge International, Kanto Adesina said, “Events like this are very important for Cambridge because pupils are at the heart of everything we do. We believe continuous and interactive learning, not exams and tests, is the ultimate purpose of education to impact individuals and the world.

“Our examinations are designed to encourage, recognise and reward learning. They should not be regarded as an end in themselves. Our programmes and qualifications encourage pupils to develop their own strengths and interests, as well as cultivate an informed curiosity and a lasting passion for learning.”

On her part, the Country Director, British Council of Nigeria and West Africa Cluster, Lucy Pearson, said the council had been giving the award for 75 years because it believed in providing and recognising efforts at creating an enabling environment for learning.

Pearson said, “We are committed to creating opportunities for people all over the world by enabling relevant connections between people in the countries where we are present, and the UK. We have been doing this in Nigeria for the last 75 years and are currently marking our 75th-anniversary celebration. We have been able to achieve several significant successes because of the key partners we work with. An example is our partnership with Cambridge International in providing Nigerian students access to globally-recognised qualifications.

“We believe that providing an enabling environment allows young people to learn and thrive, embrace their unique characteristics and prepare for global citizenship. We applaud all the award recipients and hope the awards spur them into achieving future accomplishments.”

The awards were in Top in World, Top in Country, High Achievement, Best Across categories – which rewards excellence in Cambridge IGCSE or Cambridge O Level in eight subjects, Cambridge International AS Level in four subjects and Cambridge International A-Level in three subjects.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]