Mobile Classroom App’ll reduce failure among pupils — Salami
Dayo Ojerinde

The originator of an indigenous audio-visual learning application, Mobile Classroom App, Mr Akeem Salami, has said the application will help to reduce challenges that cause examination failure among Nigerian pupils.

Speaking at the unveiling of the mobile application in Lagos recently, Salami said it would enhance the way people learned via mobile devices like phones and computers. He added that the app would also reduce bottlenecks associated with traditional education without digital.

He said, “The App has interactive features and functions that make learning and retention easier for students. It was designed with a view to solving the problem of examination failure in public examinations and colleges across the country.

“Mobile Classroom App will also offer services to other interested parties beyond the shores of Nigeria. This application is loaded with subjects offered in Nigeria’s national examination – WAEC, UTME, and NECO.”

He added that the application would offer Nigerians and students from other parts of the world the opportunity to learn at their convenience without having to go through stress while trying to acquire knowledge.

A legal practitioner, Barr. Segun Ajibola, while commending the originator of the app for his insight, said that the time had come for the introduction of such an idea in the country’s education sector.

He said, “The introduction of the Mobile Classroom App will provide an opportunity for Nigerians to acquire education as it is now possible to learn on the go. Nigerians are great users of the Internet and other smart gadgets; this will make it easier to be able to use the Mobile Classroom App with ease.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]