Principal makes case for sports development in secondary schools
Tare Youdeowei

The Principal of Queen’s College of Lagos, Tokumbo Yakubu-Oyinloye, has called on corporate organisations to partner institutions in sports development, especially in volleyball and handball.

Yakubu-Oyinloye made the call on Saturday during the finals of the Season Eight of the GTB Masters Cup in Lagos.

The football finals were between the defending champions, Queen’s College and Leadford College, as the principal said there were many sporting activities waiting to be developed at the grassroots.

“It is time for corporate organisations to go to schools and see how they can begin to grow sporting activities, especially volleyball and handball. Often times, we see support coming in the areas of football and basketball but I feel there should be an even distribution in our effort to showcase and discover abundant skills in our pupils.

“We should start encouraging them to partake in other sports in order to have well-developed all-round pupils who can represent this country one day at the global stage and make a living out of it,” she said.

On the competition that ended 1- 0 in favour of Leadford College, the principal said Queen’s College remained a formidable team.

The organiser of the competition, Lagos First Generation Heritage Colleges Association, through their the Chairman, Chief Oladele Olapeju, said the competition was a sign of great things to come in female football.

Olapeju, a one-time principal of King’s College, hoped that the girls who participated in the competition would find their way to bigger leagues across the globe. “Today, we have seen the best of football. I am happy that female football is developing rapidly in Nigeria. In the nearest future, I want to see these girls go into some of the big leagues, playing for the country and making a good living out of it. All we need is more support to be able to discover talents in various sports at this level and go ahead to harness and showcase them to the world.”

The winners of the trophy went home with N750, 000 in prize money.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]