Ogun, Enugu, 10 other states yet to access full UBEC fund
Olaleye Aluko, with agency report

Investigation has shown that Ogun, Enugu, Plateau, Abia and eight other states are not among the 24 out of 36 states that have reportedly gained full access to the Universal Basic Education Fund.

On Thursday the News Agency of Nigeria had reported that the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Mr Sonny Echono, at a meeting held to strengthen partnership within the three tiers of government on the Sustainable Development Goals 4 in Abuja, disclosed that 24 states had so far accessed the UBEC Fund in full.

Although Echono failed to mention the states that had full access to the fund, our correspondent gathered that they included Lagos, Kebbi, Kogi, Osun, Rivers and Sokoto, among others.

The permanent secretary had then urged the remaining states and the Federal Capital Territory, which are yet to access the fund, to do so for the development of the educational sector in the country.

“The Federal Government has addressed the challenges for accessing the Universal Basic Education Fund, using the Paris loan refund. I can report that 24 states, at least, have been able to do this. They have accessed the fund in full.

“Therefore, we are encouraging the remaining states to ensure that they do the needful by submitting the relevant plans because we don’t want them to throw money at problems,“ he said.

The permanent secretary added that, in recognition of the key role of education to deliver on SDG4, the Education for Change, Ministerial Strategic Plan was poised for social, economic, scientific and technological development.

He noted that the MSP was in line with the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan, which touches out-of-school children, youth and literacy, Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics, among others.

Echono said the Federal Ministry of Education had, however, aligned the MSP to SDG4 to provide inclusive and qualitative education for Nigerian children.

“During the last two decades, Nigeria has made noticeable achievements in making education available for all, particularly children.

“In a world where technology is moving rapidly and where competiveness requires a diversified and highly trained workforce, it becomes imperative to pay greater attention to secondary education, “he said.

He, however, urged states to ensure that all SDG4 targets were aligned to the State Strategic Plan for adequate implementation and indicators for ease of data collection.

Also speaking, the Director, Educational Planning, Research and Development in the ministry, Mrs Christiana Ogbede, said that SDG4 seeks to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education.

Ogbede, while underscoring the role of education in achieving the SDGs, said the ministry immediately swung into action in February 2016 by launching the SDGs and unveiling the Goal4.

She called for the engagement of all key players in an intensive and robust deliberation that would lead to viable collaborative efforts to achieve the SDG4.

The director added that the collaborations would ensure that all levels of governance were impacted by the various interventions geared towards achieving the SDGs4.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]