Corps member trains orphans to fight poverty
Tare Youdeowei

A member of the National Youth Service Corps in Lagos State, Mojola Keshinro, has completed a Community Development Service project in which 70 inmates of the Lagos State Correctional Facility for Junior Boys in Yaba were assisted to acquire vocational skills.

The project, which lasted three weeks, was aimed at arming the inmates to fight poverty, in line with the Sustainable Development Goal 1 of ‘No Poverty’.

Speaking on the final day of the training, held last Saturday, Keshinro told our correspondent that eliminating poverty went beyond giving money and food.

He said, “This is a vocational training project for the SDG CDS. Ordinarily, for the CDS, we go to secondary schools to talk to them about the SDGs, but this project is specifically meant to achieve goal one, which is ‘No Poverty’. This project is beyond giving out money or foodstuff. It is about empowering people to fend for themselves. Poverty is not just a lack of money, it is also a mindset.

“I chose to do this because I really connect with the goal of ‘No Poverty’. I have noticed that the boys are wondering what will happen when they are out of the system. Their education is already slow. As a volunteer, the idea naturally struck me to do something to empower them. With the help and support of my friends and family, I was able to complete the project successfully.”

A shoemaker who volunteered his service to train the boys, Chibueze Julius, said he was impressed with their eagerness to learn. “The boys have shown a very keen interest and that is key in vocational training and skills development. They were very eager to learn. I decided to do this because I felt it would be good for them. That was why I supported Keshinro without knowing or seeing him before. I believed in the project,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]