Mathematical modelling is the future — Don
Dayo Ojerinde

A professor of Mathematics at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Samuel Okoya, has described mathematical modelling as the basics for understanding nature, development of technology and socio-economic interactions.

Okoya said this in his keynote address titled, ‘Mathematics being the bedrock for Scientific and Technological Advancement,’ at the 38th Nigerian Mathematical Society Annual Conference held at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, recently.

He encouraged students and young mathematicians to develop interest in mathematical modelling and algorithm as well as efficient use of supercomputers in their quest for scientific and technological advancement which portend a promising future in diverse fields of human endeavours.

“Mathematics helps to earn a living and develop the power of reasoning which is why lawyers, brilliant actuarial practitioners, great economists and others advocate the teaching and learning of mathematical logic at the university level.

“The development of analytical methods, semi-analytical techniques and algorithms with computers are among the applicable cornerstones of applicable mathematics. The use of numerical computation has become well established in scientific and technological research over the years,” Okoye said.

The don added that even journalism was being reinvented as data journalism, which is application of mathematics, while mathematical biology had influenced various areas like neurobiology, neuroscience, pharmacology and biochemistry.

“Financial advisors also rely on sound econometric models, mathematical portfolio, forecasting equations and machine learning to determine business viability. Wide knowledge of mathematics and its applications are needed to build a viable local economy in a world dictated by technology,” Okoya said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]