US-based don charges Tech-U to lead Nigeria’s technological revolution
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

Prof. Toyin Falola of the Jacob and Frances Sanger Mossiker Chair in Humanities at the University of Texas, Austin, has said that technology will make an immeasurable impact on Nigeria’s path to greatness.

Speaking during the 1st Distinguished Annual Lecture of the First Technical University, Ibadan, Oyo State, themed, ‘Technology, Culture and Society’, Falola noted that China had experienced rapid growth in economic and political boom through technology.

Falola, who held the guests, including the Visitor to the university, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, represented by his deputy, Alhaji Rauf Olaniyan, spell-bound, said the western countries had continued to extend their frontiers of domination through technological advancement.

He charged Tech-U to be alive to its responsibility of resetting the city of Ibadan to a default mode where there would be adequate allowance for science and technology to help shape its environment for a better future.

Falola said, “The fact that the students of this university will elevate their skills in accordance with the dictates of the modern society, which will enable them to function at maximum capacity and compete with their colleagues in the contemporary world, speaks volumes about the limitless advantages of the world of technology.”

He urged the new government in Oyo and other stakeholders to see the university as theirs, saying, “It deserves our full support. Its products – students, research, patents, etc – will transform the city of Ibadan and by extension, put Nigeria on the global map of technological advancing nation.”

Recalling the recent feats recorded by Tech-U, the Vice chancellor of the university, Prof Ayobami Salami, said the institution was barely two years-old when it appeared on the Webometric ranking list for top universities.

Ayobami added that Tech-U’s feats included recognition as a unique entrepreneurship model and a unique funding model. The institution also got recognition in the areas of town and gown relations, technical, vocational and entrepreneurship training, empowerment programmes and partnership with foreign universities.

Other dignitaries at the event include the representative of former Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State and former Special Adviser on Economic Planning and Budget, Dr Isiaka Kolawole; Tech-U Vice Chancellor, Prof. Ayobami Salami and the Chancellor of the school, Dr. Tunde Afolabi.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]