‘Mismanagement of UBEC funds crippling Kwara schools’
Tunde Oyekola

The Kwara State Government has said that the mismanagement of the N1.5bn grant from the Universal Basic Education Commission by the immediate past administration in the state is responsible for the ranking of the state as the lowest in the country.

The government in a statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Rafiu Ajakaye, said former Governor Abdulfatai Ahmed’s response to the outrage that greeted the diversion of the UBEC fund has raised more questions on the sordid neglect of public schools under his government.

Ajakaye, in a reaction to Ahmed’s statement, said claims that the fund was not diverted or mismanaged held no water in the face of revelations from UBEC and the decrepit state of the schools in the state.

He said, “The mismanagement is apparent in Kwara’s ranking as 37th – or the lowest – on the list of UBEC Matching Grant Disbursement Performance as at April 30, 2019.

“Former Governor Ahmed’s claim that his administration used the fund to pay workers’ salaries was untenable and fishy for an administration that received a share of the N22bn Paris Club refund and additional N3.4bn bailout funds that were meant to help states pay their workers when the federal allocation dropped.

“We regret to say that the last administration cannot be forgiven for the criminal neglect of the schools because the consequences are there for all to see.

“As at April 30, 2019, Kwara had the worst rating under the UBEC Matching Grant Disbursement Performance. This is a written record.”

The statement added: “The former governor claimed he was unaware that Kwara was blacklisted. This is false. The diversion of the N1.5bn UBEC fund and the decision of the agency to bar the state from further dealings until diverted sums were paid is nothing but official blacklisting of Kwara State.

“UBEC officials made it clear that they investigated Kwara’s claim that it used the fund to pay workers and found same to be false. The investigations, they said, showed that the money was diverted. The UBEC position is further corroborated by the fact that at least 49 school projects captured under the fund were either abandoned or not started at all.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]