Don tasks Buhari on varsity education, research grants
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

A United States of America-based Nigerian university lecturer, Prof. Adesoji Adesina, has said Nigeria cannot achieve sustainable development or solve its multiple problems if it continues to pay lip service to education and research funding.

Adesina, a Professor of Chemical Engineering and Founder and Chief Executive Officer ATODATECH, Los Angeles, US , stated this at the 78th Interdisciplinary Discourse of the Post-graduate College, University of Ibadan.’

According to Adesina, Nigeria could not achieve sustainable development without funding research driven by national priorities.

He then called on President Muhammadu Buhari to formulate well defined national priorities to enable researchers to develop solutions to her problems.

Speaking on the topic, ‘An approach to Research and Innovation in National Development: Entrepreneurial Culture in Nigerian Tertiary Education,’ Prof. Adesina said Nigeria could only move forward if innovative researches were conducted in line with national priorities.

While noting that research was the cornerstone of developed societies, the university don lamented that Nigeria committed only 0.22 per cent of its Gross Domestic Product on research.

The don who noted that Nigerian researchers were conducting researches which were not entirely aligned to national priorities also stated that only innovative researches could bring sustainable development.

He asked the Federal Government to formulate policies that would make private organisations, institutions and government fund researches.

“Research must be embraced and pursued with passion. We need to conduct research driven by national priorities. We need the business sector to fund research and development. We also need the policy to ensure that they do this. Nigeria must formulate national research policy which will incorporate national priorities. We cannot have development without technology, innovation, management and entrepreneurship.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]