Nigeria’s Fatudimu among Obama Foundation scholars
Tare Youdeowei

The Obama Foundation, last Tuesday, revealed that Nigeria’s Segun Fatudimu had emerged among its 32 Second Cohort of Obama Foundation Scholars who would study at the University of Chicago and Columbia University for the 2019-2020 academic year.

This was made known by the foundation’s Chief Executive Officer, David Simas, in a statement which said the foundation’s effort was targeted at supporting the next generation of global leaders through programmes that empowered them with the tools needed to make their efforts more effective and impactful upon their return home.

Simas said, “The inaugural class of scholars emerged more energised and capable of creating lasting change in their communities. They are one of the backbones of the Obama Foundation’s global ecosystem of young leaders and we are inspired by the connections they have made and the work they will go on to do. We are eager to grow this international network of change makers with our second cohort of scholars.

“The 20 Obama Foundation Scholars at the University of Chicago will earn a Master of Arts degree focused on International Development and Policy at the university’s Harris School of Public Policy. Outside the classroom, the UChicago Scholars will have the chance to participate in experiences throughout Chicago, including the South Side where President Obama got his start in community organising,” Simas said.

Fatudimu, who is the Founder and Director of Sozo Networks, a youth-led non-profit organisation that trains and empowers young Nigerians through experiential training, volunteering opportunities, as well as local and international connections.

His project has reached more than 750 young Nigerians who have gone on to win and implement local and international grants worth over $500,000.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]