Malpractices: JAMB releases fresh 3,736 UTME results
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board on Wednesday released the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination results of 3,736 candidates after the board had invited them to come for physical verification and prove that they were not involved in malpractices.

Our correspondent learnt that the affected candidates had been invited last Monday.

However, four candidates were discovered by the board to indulge in malpractices ranging from inflating their scores to cheating and therefore had their results withdrawn.

According to JAMB, they are Adah Eche with registration number 97512230IB, Taiwo Omowumi with registration number 97049254GG, Vincent Onyinyechi with registration number 96531098BC and Afolasade Zainab with registration number 96634599GA.

The Head of Information, JAMB, Dr Fabian Benjamin, confirmed the development, saying the board would not spare efforts in identifying and sanctioning any candidate who attempted to falsify UTME.

He said, “Recall that when 2019 UTME results were released on Saturday, May 11, 2019, the board had explained, among others, that there was a post-examination discovery of serious infractions that might lead to withdrawal of any released result.

“Also, a number of candidates’ results were withheld for further verification and anyone not deeply implicated would have his or her result processed.

“There were, however, some that needed further direct interaction and interview to establish clearly whether they were culpable or not. Candidates in this category were invited to appear in eight centres across the country.

“Consequently, 3,736 candidates who were found to be either free of any blame or entitled to benefit of the doubt, have their results processed for release. The 3,736 results are now released.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]