VC seeks foreign aid for FUNAAB
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

The Vice-Chancellor of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, Prof. Felix Salako, has said that the institution is in dire need of foreign aid, which will enable it to attain academic development.

The vice-chancellor stated this during a week-long capacity building seminar organised for directors and heads of departments of the institution.

Salako also said that academic development should not be left to government alone, adding that both foreign and corporate bodies in the country must be part of the development.

He noted that higher institutions of learning in Nigeria, especially FUNAAB, possessed the resources and resource persons to make the country great, but they needed support from government and private organisations.

Acknowledging the contributions of the African Women in Agricultural and Research Development to the educational growth of the institution, Salako said the group and other foreign bodies had been making contributions to the institution in academics and professional development.

He said, “Award has contributed a lot to our academic growth and professional development. Through AWARD, there have been out-reaches to women in the rural areas and that is part of our mandate,(Community development). We have also gained in the area of training.”

While speaking during the opening ceremony of the training, the Deputy Director of Programmes of AWARD, Michelle Mboo-Tchouawou, described FUNAAB as a performing member of AWARD and enjoined members of the group to keep the good flag flying.

Mboo-Tchouawou added that the pan-African initiative was aimed at training men and women who would change the continent for good.

She added that AWARD’s vision was to have an Africa that would be responsive to its problems and take the lead in actions that would improve the lives of its people.

She said, “The two major goals of AWARD are to reduce poverty, improvement and empowerment of the rural farming communities, using the scientific research of the AWARD Fellows. This is a Pan African initiative that works on building and strengthening capacity at individual and institutional levels.”

“This particular mentoring orientation workshop was a demand from FUNAAB. As part of our initiative in gender and responsive agricultural and research development, we have decided to work with a selected number of institutions and FUNAAB is part of the original plan to reach different institutions across Africa.”

The Director of Programmes at AWARD also said the group would help to enhance capacity building and solve a problems, but not without the people stating their exact problems or challenges.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]