Kwara South wants indigene appointed as KWASU VC
Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin

Indigenes of Kwara South Senatorial District, acting under the aegis of the Leadership of Kwara South Consultative Forum, have called on Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq to ensure fairness and equality in the distribution of appointments in the state.

The socio-cultural group made this call during a briefing held in Ilorin on Thursday. It said that in order to ensure fairness in power distribution among the three Senatorial districts, the government should appoint the most senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the Kwara State University as Acting Vice-Chancellor of the university.

The group led by elder statesman, Sir Chief Joseph Aderibigbe, appealed to all indigenes of the three senatorial districts of the state to allow fairness and justice to rule their minds.

The group, which alleged that there was marginalisation in the appointment of a vice-chancellor, said the Kwara Central Senatorial District had been in power at the expense of the other senatorial districts.

“The Kwara central senatorial district should recognise that every district, like every man, has a right to be treated as a district equal in opportunity to be enjoyed and treated fairly, justly and equitably.

“Specifically, when two vacancies for the positions of vice-chancellor and pro chancellor existed, the two positions were replaced by persons from Kwara central which the IEDPU represents. Unfortunately, the then governor ignored Kwara South Consultative Forum’s complaint about the anomaly.

“KWASU belongs to all Kwarans who are responsible for the maintenance of the institution. For that matter, every local government makes monthly financial contributions to the sustenance of KWASU. Unfortunately, over the years only Kwara Central Indigenes were in control of the state administration whereas key positions are expected to be spread among the three senatorial districts of the state. The fact that other senatorial districts kept quiet over the years does not mean that we are oblivious of our rights” he said.

The group also disagreed with an assertion by the apex socio cultural organisation of indigenes of Ilorin emirate, the IEDPU, to the effect that a policy has been in place to appoint indigenes of a particular area as heads of institutions cited in their domains.

“The question that comes to mind is who made that policy and what was the objectives thereof? We hasten to say that, that policy does not exist and it is self-serving and retrogressive.

“We recollect that indigenes of the Ilorin emirate had at one time or the other headed institutions outside their domains”, he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]