Encourage national unity, ABU alumni urges varsities
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The old students of the School of Basic Studies, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Kaduna State, have called on universities and the Federal Government to create and execute programmes that will encourage national unity and integration, especially among youths in the country.

The 1973 set of the school, known as BASICO ’73, made this call in Abuja, last Saturday, stressing that the present insecurity and suspicion in the country was unimaginable for anyone of them during their university days.

The BASICO 73 President, Samuel Bandi, said the alumni would hold a public lecture later in the year to discuss issues of national unity and integration, an event which would be chaired by former Head of State, Gen Yakubu Gowon.

The President said, “When we were at the Ahmadu Bello University in January 1973, the vision we had of Nigeria is not what we are seeing today. We had a vision of a country where you could go anywhere at any time and feel free and secure. You felt free with people from other tribes and religions. But today, things have turned upside down.

“The message is that we should use the format to unite Nigerian youths, the same way we were gathered together in 1973 from every part of the country. We should have projects that encourage youths from different parts of the country to live together so that our unity and cohesion will be restored.

“If we adopt this model, perhaps in 10 years’ time, these challenges facing the country will be a thing of the past. One of the things we plan is a public lecture for sensitisation. We can do it because there is no field of human endeavour in Nigeria where some of us have not excelled.

“Later in the year, we hope to have a public lecture on national unity. We are going to use professors and military generals as resource persons.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]