Social media was my biggest challenge – Best graduating student
Tare Youdeowei

The best graduating student of the Greensprings’ International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme, Obidinma Egbokwu, has said that distraction from social media posed a serious challenge to her as she rose from a 4.0 grade point average to 7.0.

Egbokwu said this during last Friday’s Prize-giving Day and Graduation Ceremony of the Class of 2019 at Greensprings School in Awoyaya, Lagos.

She added that, contrary to popular opinion, she was not distracted by boys. Revealing the secret of her success, she continued, “One thing I did was to stop doubting myself. I started believing in myself and found better ways to study effectively. I also did a lot of group studying, which helped me to get to the position that I am in today.

“I didn’t have a boyfriend and I wasn’t distracted by boys. Instead, I was distracted by social media. During examinations, I tried to limit my time on social media and went as far as deleting applications on my phone in order to avoid further distraction.

“When you have someone who believes in you, you will make it. My teacher had so much confidence in me. Before I didn’t put much effort in studying English, but when my teacher started telling me that I could make a seven then I started studying harder and putting in more effort,” she said.

The Guest of Honour, Justice Adewale Abiru, congratulated the graduates, their families and friends, as he urged them to make good use of the character traits and skills imparted in them during the diploma programme.

Abiru said, “Graduates, this is the beginning of a new stage where you are, the decider of what happens in your life. The programme has taught you about the importance of community service, discernment, multi-tasking and time management, among other skills. These are crucial skills for the next stage of your life as there will be no one to tell you to spend your time wisely. The character traits you have developed will help you to face life, acclimatise and succeed in the next stage of your education.”

He also advised graduating students to avoid making self-centred decisions. “Remember who you are and where you came from. Remember the effort your teachers and parents put in to bring you to where you are. As such, do not make decisions based on only what you want.

“I pray you experience more ups than downs, as you make meaningful friends that share your ideas and goals. Never feel too big to turn to your parents or lecturers. Let the university pass through you. Be flexible with your choice of career and know your limitations and strength. Above all, believe that you will achieve your dream,” Abiru said.

During the ceremony, 10 parents bag Loyalty Awards for being with the school for up to 15 years. The school’s Sixth Form Principal, Jennifer Sunkanmi-Kazeem, described the graduating set as unique because many of the students got the highest number of scholarships.

She said, “We started in 2010 and this graduation is different. This set is unique because the students have earned for themselves the highest number of scholarships to study in the university. As a result, we have high expectations that they are going to do very well when they get there. They worked in teams and were able to achieve a lot through their collaborative efforts.”

Speaking on the programme, the Chief Executive Officer of the school, Lai Koiki, said, “Universities prefer children that have IB Diploma because they are better prepared for university. They have learnt time management and self-organisation to meet deadlines.

“I would advise people to go for the programme because before sending students to foreign universities, they need to be strong, not just academically, but in maturity and the right social skills, which are important to withstand intense pressure from academics and pleasure.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]