‘Suicide, kidnapping in varsities caused by frustration’
Tare Youdeowei

The President of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi, has said that the suicide rate among students of tertiary institutions and the kidnapping of lecturers are reflections of the general frustration in the larger society.

Ogunyemi made this known in an interview with our correspondent. He stated that the average Nigerian was under intense pressure, as the atmosphere of instability and insecurity in the nation were enough to give individuals tension.

He said, “It is a reflection of the social decadence and insecurity in the country. In a situation where we have a general collapse of these things nobody can pretend to be safe. We cannot remove lectures from other segments of the society because we live in it and universities are located in it. Nobody is safe if the citizens are not safe. We need to first address what we need for survival and provide what people need to meet the challenges of life.”

Ogunyemi added that the situation was very frustrating for students who were not finding it easy to cope with the challenges of life. He said, “Some of their parents may not afford what they need for their studies. As a result, their confidence can fail them. When you look at the political economy, it is not one that gives much hope to the average Nigerian.

“We have to look at it holistically and situate the problem in our universities. As for us, we continue to do our bit, universities have counselling centres, lecturers are parents’ substitutes, they act in locus parentis. However, lecturers will be able to do it better when there is an enabling environment. This is why we have continued to talk about the conditions of working and living in our universities.

When lectures do not have a conducive environment to work, they cannot perform their other responsibilities that accompany teaching and research.

“Lecturers feel for the students and our hearts go to the families that have lost their loved ones and children, owing to the increasing rate of frustration that led them to take their own lives. This is not the solution, but it will come when we create an enabling environment for both workers and students in the universities. When guidance and counsellors are not comfortable and they cannot conveniently carry out their responsibilities, you cannot get the best from them.”

He advised the Federal Government to redefine security within a framework that includes social, economic and cultural good. “Talking about security, in terms of weapons, gadgets and stern looking security men, is not the way to go. The people are the best protector of themselves but we need to first empower them. We need to address inequality, such that the gap between the rich and poor would not be too immense.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]