ABU students shine at global ICT competition
Friday Olokor, Abuja

Three Nigerian students of the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria have emerged third at the Global Finals of the Huawei ICT competition held last Monday at the company’s headquarters in Dongguan, China.

The students competed with 147 others that represented 30 countries and came third after four first-prize winners from China, Malaysia, Peru and Algeria.

This was made known by the Director of Huawei Technologies Nigeria in Abuja, Tanki Li, as he welcomed the winners at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport.

Li said, “We believe that this event will inspire more students’ interest in ICT. This platform provides students with a world-class stage to showcase themselves and consolidate the vital ICT needed for Africa’s development.

“Huawei hopes to attract more ICT universities and colleges, government organisations, industries and training partners to jointly enhance the digital skills of students for education and industry transformation.

“In order to achieve the goal of technology excellence and relaying far-reaching goals, Huawei will continue to do a good job in the formulation of talent standards, build talent alliances, disseminate talent value and build a benign ICT talent ecosystem,” Li stated.

According to him, the ABU students ranked first in Africa and led with 790.4 points, followed by Tanzania with 745.6, Kenya with 737 and Angola with 700.8, which helped them represent the continent at the global stage.

The Vice-Chancellor of ABU, Prof. Ibrahim Garba, said that despite limited resources, the students were able to compete with the best in the world.

“I am proud of my boys because they went with very limited preparation from an environment that is limited in resources and infrastructure and were still able to compete with the best of the best in the world,” the VC stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]