‘FG should improve education standard’
The General Overseer, Christ Arena of Favour Ministries International, Apostle Ekwere Angel, has called on the Federal Government to take urgent steps to improve the standard of education in the country.

Angel spoke on Saturday during the 8th annual Children Day programme organised by the KingsStar Children Club in Ogba, Lagos.

“Education is the key to a vibrant and growing nation. Government has a major part to play in ensuring a good standard of education. The Federal Government should take decisive steps towards improving the standard of education.

“The children are the future leaders of this great nation and if the right education is not given to them, it will affect the economy of this nation adversely. Improvement in standard of education must cut across all levels in order for Nigerian children to measure up to modern standards in other climes. A good education is the responsibility of the government; they have a part to play to ensure the system works well.”

The apostle, who noted that most public schools lacked the needed facilities to aid learning, urged the government to increase budgetary allocations to education.

In her remarks, the founder of the KSCC, Mrs Cynthia Ofulue, said the club was established to tackle moral decadence in the country among children.

She said, “This is our eighth year of celebrating children at KingsStar Children Club. We teach children the right living. This vision is borne out of the passion to teach children virtues that will make them world leaders.

“The rising rate of child trafficking, child labour, prostitution and so many other vices gave birth to the need for us to champion a positive cause in the total upbringing of the child by combining academic, moral and spiritual excellence in preparing good leaders for the future of the country,” Ofulue added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]