Plateau public school, five others get facelift
Tare Youdeowei

Bungha Gida Primary School in the Mangu Local Government Area of Plateau State, as well as five other Oando Foundation adopted schools within the state, have been renovated and inaugurated in a bid to bridge the infrastructure gap in public primary schools.

The opening, organised by the Plateau State Government, the State Universal Basic Education Board and Oando Foundation, was made public in a statement to our correspondent on Wednesday.

The renovated schools, according to the foundation, would impact the lives of over 4,200 beneficiaries by creating a conducive learning environment for pupils to thrive.

Pointing out that the renovation was part of the foundation’s effort to support the government in achieving the Sustainable Development Goal 4 of Basic Education through its Adopt-A-School Initiative, the Programme Manager, Tonia Uduimoh, said, “The initiative is aimed at the holistic improvement of public primary schools since the condition, location and nature of school infrastructure has a direct impact on access, quality of education, as well as influences learning outcomes. That is why we have heavily invested in ensuring that our pupils in adopted schools learn under the right environment that will further enhance their learning capabilities. Our intervention in Plateau State, similar to other states where we operate, is holistic. We are ensuring that the needs of the teachers and learners are adequately met for better learning outcomes.”

The Deputy Governor of the state, Prof. Sonni Tyoden, while expressing gratitude for the completion of the projects, urged every member of the community to ensure the facilities were well maintained.

“I implore the would-be users of this classrooms and facilities; teachers and learners, as well as members of the community, to be careful in handling them so that they can last for a long time.

“I appeal to the traditional rulers across the state to take interest in the management of public primary schools in their domain. They can assist in the monitoring and supervision of teaching and learning activities and report any unwholesome situation to the relevant authorities for necessary action.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]