SASSOGA seeks improved cultural education, celebrates school
Tare Youdeowei

The Seminary St. Anne’s School Old Girls Association has said there is the need for conscious effort to be made at re-introducing culture to children.

They added that they planned to do the same for their school, St. Anne’s School in Ibadan, Oyo State.

The association made this known on Saturday at a briefing in Ikeja, Lagos, that kicked off a series of activities to celebrate their Alma Mata at 150 years.

The Chairman, 150th Anniversary Central Planning Committee, Dr Funmilayo Soleye, said October 14 to 19, had been chosen for the opening of projects and the anniversary celebration.

“We cannot keep expecting the government to do everything; everybody has to join hands to make things work. Give back what you can, now that you can. We also need to recognise that there is a problem that is not stemming from lack of education or deterioration of it. People should not think that western education is the ultimate, we need to have more girls that are culturally sound. There is the need for us to make a conscious effort to re-introduce culture to our children. We need to have a cultural revolution because our culture is dying, our languages are dying.

“For our 150th anniversary, we are planning to raise N250m to start the refurbishment of the school and we will also set up an endowment fund that we hope both old and new students, interested corporate organisations, families and individuals will donate to. In addition, we want to resuscitate sports and the finer points of education that are not necessarily academic, like a robust boarding house and clubs like the literary and debating society,” Soleye disclosed.

The association’s Team Lead, Finance and Fund Raising, Mrs Nifemi Adeshina, also said, “As the oldest institution in the country to provide formal education for the girl child, we have selected the topic, ‘The Trials and Successes of the Girl Child Education in Nigeria: The St. Anne’s Story,’ as our theme. Also, many projects that involve the restoration of the school will be opened and awards will be given.

“We have equally seen that there is a big difference between the girl child education then and now. Grooming, etiquette, cooking-ability and housekeeping were taught when we were in school, now these basics are lacking in schools. We are looking to reintroduce these at St. Anne’s.”

Also, the Team Lead, Media and Public Relations, Mrs Bisola Ariyibi, said, “We are hoping that more old girls will key into this dream because it is a labour of love. We plan to hold an exhibition outlining the history of the school from as far back as possible. This exhibition will be hosted in the old school hall. There is also a plan to start a scholarship scheme for brilliant indigent pupils.”

Activities lined up by the old girls to celebrate the school range from a television discussion on the ‘History of Girl Child Education in Nigeria,’ a dinner, dance and thanksgiving at church, to presentation of the book, ‘Trail Blazer,’ opening of the school life exhibition and picture panorama and drama presentation, among others.

The association said it also planned to re-roof classroom blocks, clear and landscape the school compound, create proper roads to various houses, rebuild the school fence and gatehouse, create various sports fields, renovate the school hall, establish a vocational centre and provide a school bus.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]