FUTA, LAUTECH, others shine at South-West Awards
Sunday Aborisade and Bola Bamigbola

The Federal University of Technology, Akure, has been adjudged the best university in South-West Nigeria, while its Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Joseph Fuwape, emerged the best VC in the zone at the second edition of the South West Education Award and Lecture held at the Redeemer’s University in Ede, Osun State on Tuesday.

Also, the VC of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso, Prof. Michael Ologunde and the Rector of Federal Polytechnic, Ado Ekiti, Dr Dayo Ladipe, bagged Vice-Chancellor and Rector of the year at ceremony. This was as Prof. Olubunmi Akinola of Obafemi Awolowo University, picked the prize of Outstanding Lecturer of the Year.

In a statement made available to one of our correspondents by the Chairman of the awards, Honey Olawale, on Sunday, the award was to celebrate the country’s great achievers in the education sector across the South-West region.

He said FUTA was selected for its ground-breaking achievements and consistent academic excellence of its staff and students.

Receiving the awards, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Development, Prof. Phillip Oguntunde, who represented the VC, said the award came at a time FUTA had redoubled efforts to be among the best in the comity of universities globally and served as a clarion call for FUTA and the VC to sustain the tempo of development.

While delivering the lecture titled ‘Curbing Emerging Infectious Diseases on the Africa Continent’, the Director of Research, Innovations and Partnership, Redeemers University, Prof. Christian Happi, decried the over-reliance of African countries on international agencies for the treatment of infectious disease.

Happi added that with the resources available on the continent, the cure for the diseases peculiar to Africans should source from within, as he urged African countries to develop a continental strategy to cure infectious diseases by creating an effective disease control centre.

Other awardees included the Redeemer’s University which was awarded the outstanding Private University of the year, Federal Polytechnic Ede got the Outstanding Polytechnic of the year. While professors Norah Akinola, Isiaka Aransi, Sola Bamire, Ayo Olajuyigbe and Emmanuel Adeyeye were awarded the outstanding lecturers of the year.

Also, Outstanding Student of the Year went to Salako Folashade of the Faculty of Pharmacy at Obafemi Awolowo University.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]