YABATECH rector advises new students against negative behaviour
Tare Youdeowei

The Rector of Yaba College of Technology, Engr. Obafemi Omokungbe, has urged the 18,131 new students admitted to the institution for the 2018/2019 academic session to shun negative behaviour and vices.

Omokungbe made this known last Tuesday at Yaba, Lagos, where he disclosed that 10,440 students were admitted for National Diploma Full Time and Part Time and 7,670 for Higher National Diploma Full Time and Part Time across the seven schools and 48 programmes of the college.

Addressing the new students, the rector said, “Avoid negative attitudes such as absenteeism, indolence, disobedience, vandalism, violence and cultism. Adjust your lifestyle and activities to align with the dictates of the matriculation oath to enable you to have a smooth and successful stay on campus. Also, read the Student’s Handbook to familiarise yourselves with the college’s rules and regulations.

“The college management has, within available resources, ensured that students have a conducive environment for learning and living. Efforts have been made to renovate the hostels and generally provide a clean and safe environment for students in Yaba campus while work is still ongoing at the Epe campus. Students are therefore advised to take advantage of the facilities in the hostels, classrooms, libraries and the medical centre. Also, a place of worship each for Christian and Muslim students has been provided as religious activities outside designated areas are not allowed.”

Omokungbe also counseled the students to remain focused and avoid any form of distraction that would be detrimental to their goals, as students who did not meet the 75 per cent attendance of lectures would not be eligible to write the semester examinations.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]