KWASU bags N21m grant to tackle pipeline vandalism
Tunde Oyekola

The Vice-Chancellor of Kwara State University, Prof.AbdulrasheedNa’allah has disclosed that the Aeronautic Engineering Department of the institution has won a N21m grant to design a drone to tackle petroleum pipeline vandalism across the country.

Na’allah said this on Monday at Malete in Kwara State during a briefing ahead of the seventh convocation of the university slated for Saturday, June 8.

He also said the university, which had pioneered courses like Aeronautic Engineering and Advanced Military Studies in the country, had also won money from the British government to design some incubators.

Na’allah further disclosed that 1,196 students would graduate, out of which 25 would be First Class degree holders. He also said 151 students would bag Master’s degrees while five would go home with Doctor of Philosophy certificates.

Giving a progress report of the school, the VC said, “In the last 10 years, the school has enjoyed the most stable academic calendar as no crisis affected the calendar. The institution has also signed a memorandum of understanding with the Nigeria Air Force to design and repair damaged military equipment.”

Speaking on how the management of the institution coped without government participation, Na’ Allah said, “The efficient system of internal generation of funds and prudent management of resources enabled the school to run without subvention which the state government stopped five years ago when there was a drop in the federal allocation to the state.”

He, however, urged the government to restore giving the school allocation, saying it would enable the university to carry out more academic programmes as it was designed to do.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]