Maltina seeks 2019 best teacher
Nigerian Breweries Plc has called on teachers across the country to apply for the 2019 Maltina Teacher of the Year award.

The company made this known on Thursday at the unveiling of the award on Victoria Island, Lagos, to identify, showcase and reward outstanding teachers in Nigeria.

At the event, the Director of Basic and Secondary Education, Dr Lami Amodu, said teachers were nation builders but the profession had not been well appreciated in developing countries, including Nigeria. “It is highly elevating that Nigerian Breweries and Maltina have given teachers a reason to aspire to be the best and the government would not hesitate to support it anytime,” he said.

In a keynote speech to formally commence the 5th edition of the award, the Corporate Affairs Director of the company, Mrs Shade Morgan, said the initiative was hinged on recognising and celebrating exceptional teachers for their contributions and impact on the future and efforts at grooming pupils.

“The award is open to teachers in public and private secondary schools and entries will close on July 12. The Teacher of the Year will get a trophy, N1m annually for five years and a block of classrooms built at the school where he or she teaches,” Morgan explained.

“The first runner-up will receive N1m and a trophy, while the second runner-up will have N750,000 and a trophy. In addition, each state champion, including the winner and the first and the second runners-up, will get N500, 000.”

Also, the 2018 Maltina Teacher of the Year, Mr Olasunkanmi Opeifa, urged teachers to apply for the award because his bagging the award had opened other doors for him. He also urged the government to review the curriculum and applauded the company for motivating teachers and improving the standard of education in the country.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]