Second term: Experts urge Buhari to focus on basic education
Tare Youdeowei

With the commencement of the second term of the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, educationists have called on the president to give priority to primary and secondary education, which they described as virtually collapsed and in danger.

They warned that if basic education was not given utmost priority in the coming years, it would lead to economic redundancy, as they called for the scrapping of trade subjects in favour of the resuscitation of technical colleges.

In an interview with our correspondent, a former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Uyo, Prof. Akpan Ekpo, said if the Buhari-led administration was committed, education would improve within the next four years.

Ekpo said, “In the next four years, I hope the government will be serious about rebuilding the primary and secondary levels of education because they are the foundation; as it is, they have virtually collapsed. We need to get back to the foundation to make sure it is of high quality. The foundation level is very important.”

The economist advised the government to not just disburse funds but to also monitor and evaluate whatever the funds are used for.

“If we say 50 per cent is budgeted for education, for instance, we want to know if it is for recurrent or capital expenses because the primary and secondary schools, polytechnics and universities lack the basic amenities for quality education.

“Also, when allocating the money, they should find out if the money has been used for what it was allocated. We need proper monitoring and evaluation to ensure that allocated funds are used for their intended purposes.

“That said, in the next four years, if they are committed there will be improvement in the sector and we have to see to it otherwise there will be economic redundancy. If that sector lags behind, the economy will not do well,” Ekpo said.

On his part, the Proprietor of Stokhan School, Prince Shinnayomi Akintolure, urged the government to consider putting only education professionals at the helm of affairs, starting with the Minister of Education.

Akintolure said, “Don’t make a farmer the minister of education; don’t bring a lawyer either. Has it been heard of that someone who is not a medical doctor was picked to be the Minister of Health or a non-lawyer becoming the Chief Justice of Nigeria? So, why are they toying with education? A professor of Education should be the Minister of Education.

“Everybody that would be at the helm of affairs in the sector should be an expert. Every institution of learning ­— universities, polytechnics, colleges of education, mono-technics and colleges of health — in appointing members of their council, shouldn’t pick just any politician coming to collect free allowance and without capacity to make meaningful input to the growth of the institutions; it should be experts.”

The education consultant also said that even though pupils were being taught well, educational facilities and the curriculum for basic education were in danger, as he called for the setting up of more technical colleges across the country.

“Recently they restructured the curriculum and came up with 39 trade subjects and pre-vocational studies. Those subjects have crumbled our education. As a parent and an expert, my advice is that the government should go back to the drawing board.

“For primary and secondary education, let them return our curriculum to what it was before now. The trade subjects are good but strengthening our technical colleges is the way to go. They should re-brand, repackage, equip and give enough finance to technical colleges in the country.

“If they argue that the subjects are for the children to be informed about these trades, they should find out how many government and private schools have the facilities to teach these subjects practically? Let’s stop beating about the bush, let them face the technical colleges, let the children have their nine subjects,” he said.

Akintolure further urged the government to review the curriculum with experts. “It should be practical involvement; textbook writers should be invited, classroom teachers, lecturers, employers of labour, labour unions and trade unions should be involved. Vice-chancellors, rectors and provosts, even pupils, should be involved. That way, we would have a holistic curriculum,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]