Tackle rising number of out-of-school children, NAPPS urges FG
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools in the Federal Capital Territory has decried the rising population of Nigeria’s out-of-school children currently at 10.2 million.

Calling on the federal and state governments to put structures in place to tackle the menace, the association, on Monday, urged the government to make grants-in-aid available to private schools so that they could support the effort at reducing the population of out-of-school children.

The association made the call through its Chairperson, Mrs Lilian Ogujiofor, during a cultural carnival at the National Stadium in Abuja, where over 3,000 pupils marched to commemorate the Children’s Day.

Ogujiofor said, “As loyal citizens and core stakeholders in the country’s education sector, we share the government’s concern over the rising population of the out-of-school children in the country and in the area council, particularly.

“The government should understand that the body of private schools educators is very crucial to the advancement of education and these schools should not be treated by the government as mere profit-making establishments. The schools should not be taxed and levied like other commercial ventures.

“This problem has made private schools exorbitant and inaccessible to a majority of school-aged children. We, therefore, call on the administration of the FCT to make grants-in-aid available to private schools on the basis of enrolment figures, as obtained in the First Republic before the take-over of schools in all states in 1970.”

Ogujiofor added that parents must protect their children from unrated media content and negative peer groups. “I call for stronger collaboration between parents and schools in order to develop and prepare the children adequately for the challenges of citizenship and leadership awaiting them,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]