Ekiti commission dissatisfied with teachers’ performance — Abegunde
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Chairman, Ekiti State Teaching Service Commission, Babatunde Abegunde, has said that the commission is dissatisfied with the performance of some teachers and would not condone indiscipline, laziness and other forms of unwholesome behaviour among teachers, as well as pupils of public secondary schools.

Abegunde charged the teachers to guide and monitor the pupils closely to enable them to improve their current performance.

The commission’s boss, who spoke in Ikere Ekiti on Wednesday while monitoring secondary schools across the three senatorial districts, urged teachers to carry out their duties conscientiously and assist their pupils to perform well.

He said, “The inspection is not conducted to witch-hunt any teacher but to encourage them and put them on their toes for better performance. The teachers should cooperate with their principals to improve the standard of education in the state.”

The general complaints of the principals of most schools visited by the team included inadequate accommodation, toilet facilities, water supply, perimeter fencing and unrestrained encroachment on school lands by some members of the public.

The Chairman, who appreciated the efforts of the management of schools where the principals were noted to have diligently discharged their duties, vilified the teachers who were not doing enough with a charge for them to do better.

The principals praised the state government for the various landmark achievements within eight months of assuming of office, especially the prompt payment of salaries, provision of housing and car loans, payment of core subjects and rural allowances with a charge to government to continue to prioritize their welfare.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]