‘60% of pupils in public schools lack access to books’
Friday Olokor, Abuja

Research has shown that in Africa, 60 per cent of children in government-owned schools do not have access to books and writing materials, a public strategist and community development expert, Dr Issaae Shekari, has stated.

According to Shekari, during the official launch of #1book1youngstar, a non-governmental organisation founded by Xensacha Retyit at Bema Homes and Orphanage in Abuja, another research by the United Nations indicated that 70 per cent of children in government schools in Nigeria used one book for more than five subjects.

She also called on the Federal Government to extend its school feeding programme to schools like Bema Home which had been committed to the welfare and empowerment of the less privileged and orphans.

“Research has shown that in Africa, 60 per cent of children in government schools do not have writing materials. I personally carried out a research and in continuation of it, I stumbled on a research by the United Nations that 70 per cent of children in government schools in Nigeria, have one book for more than five subjects. Our intention is to share 10 million exercise books before the year runs out across Africa, but our focus is Nigeria.

“The present government has been trying in the area of social development but I believe that the school feeding programme should be extended to credible schools so that the government can assist them, even if it is with foodstuffs, writing materials, textbooks, computers and other working tools. I just feel the government should extend whatever help they can to homes which cater for the less privileged and orphaned children,” she stated.

To curb insecurity in Nigeria, Shekari, who is also the founder of Everywoman Diary Initiative, advised the government to put more money into the education sector. “The first and long term measure to curb insecurity in Nigeria is to put more money into quality education. How many children can actually use the computer? You can imagine that Nigeria has not started the making of pencils. Meanwhile, the sense of technology of children in China, America and Europe is far more than what we can do here.”

The promoters of the organisation said they would give 10 million books to less privileged children, orphans and children in government schools before the end of 2019.

One of the Directors of the NGO, Maxwell Seth-Retyit, said, “We discovered that our son has a likeness for books. If you give him other things like toys, he will push them away. But if you give him books, he takes them. The aim of the foundation is to teach him that life not all about taking but giving. We are trying to teach him to impact on the lives of people.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]