Army warns against students’ activism, protests in varsity
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Nigerian Army has said that it will enforce discipline in its newly established Nigerian Army University in Biu, Borno State, adding that activism, protests or strike from students or workers would be viewed seriously.

The Chief of the Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, stated this on Monday at the Army Headquarters, Abuja, while presenting an appointment letter to the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof David Malgwi.

The Nigerian Army University was approved by the Federal Executive Council in April 2018 and the foundation was laid in October 2018 at its permanent site in Biu, Borno State.

Buratai said the army remained “absolutely loyal to President Muhammadu Buhari and his administration”, noting that the university had commenced academic activities and held its maiden university matriculation in February 2019.

The army chief said, “The focal point of the university is to serve as a solution centre for the technological and operational problems of the army, the military as a whole and the country at large. It is designed to create the critical mass required for research, innovation, testing and development in the 21st-century settings.

“Additionally, it will provide excellence, ingenuity, creativity and distinctive competencies in intellectual outcomes. The importance of this citadel of learning in this age of automation and technological advancement can therefore not be over-emphasised.

“As you are all aware, the university is a military establishment though with a conventional setting, discipline will thus be enforced as vices such as cultism, activism, protests or strike and any untoward activity from both the students and workers will be viewed seriously.”

Malgwi, in his acceptance speech, said the university held matriculation for 1,000 undergraduates into five faculties and 39 programmes.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]