Basic schools must set up libraries, not acquiring computers –Librarian
A professional librarian, Mrs Mofoyeke Ibidapo, talks about why youths should imbibe the culture of reading with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN

What informed your interest in helping schools to establish libraries?

I am technologically inclined but I see a trend where young people are moving away from proper reading culture. They can spend hours on the Internet doing nothing just playing around or reading things that are not beneficial to them. Whatever they get from those sites and the rest can never be the same value they will get by reading books both in soft copy and hard copies.

They don’t read anymore, they just prefer to read or listen to all sort of things. It is gradually taking them away from a good reading culture. As much as I would like technology to take over, I think Nigeria is not ready for the e-library thing.

Also, I think parents are not helping in terms of passing the reading culture to their children. In my case, I manage my children with books; so, they are used to reading. They can go online to read but they enjoy reading hard copies.

You will discover that even teachers are not reading. Is it surprising that even teachers don’t read the textbooks which they use for their students? You hear teachers speak bad English. What do you expect them to teach the pupils? You see the extent the nation’s education system needs help.

That is why I have been advising and telling school owners the need to have libraries in their schools. We should train pupils with physical books and overtime, it wouldn’t be distracting for them to read online because they already have a reading foundation.

What materials do you work with?

I work with schools; so, I deal mainly with core textbooks and pupils can have access to the books. In my days, it wasn’t compulsory for us to buy all books. My father only bought English and Mathematics textbooks and would tell us to use the library. Now you see that school owners just force parents to buy all books for their children and it is not supposed to be the case.

When my children were in primary school, I used to buy books worth N60,000 to N70,000. I have a set of triplets in the same class. As soon as they got to secondary school, I stopped buying all the textbooks. I only bought English, Mathematics and Basic Science textbooks. I tell them to use the library.

In fact, I told their proprietors that if they didn’t have functional libraries, I would withdraw my children from their schools. I advise schools to buy books listed in their curriculum and general knowledge books. Developing reading culture starts by reading small story books before growing into textbooks.

My mother started to teach us with story books and gradually, we got to a level that by the time we were in secondary school, my brother was already reading dictionary and encyclopedia. I work with curriculum materials, general books, story books and others.

How do you assist schools to establish libraries?

As a trained librarian, I know what to do. I know how the shelf should stand and how the book should be arranged. I will meet the proprietor, choose a very serene atmosphere and give them a list of what I want. I buy the materials for them, especially the ones they need to start with. I also ensure that they have a teacher librarian and two pupils as pupil librarians. The essence of having a library in a school library is for pupils to access it. I train the librarian on how they can manage the school to have at least 15 minutes in the library. If they need me, I am always available to teach them.

I am sceptical about e-learning for basic school pupils because they are the ones I work with. I work with preparatory school, crèches and basic classes. They should start with physical books and overtime, graduate into other means of reading.

There have been complaints by some parents that school owners use book selling as a way to make money. What is your take on this?

It is sad. I bought many books for my children that I now give them to some schools to start their libraries. You see school owners telling pupils in primary one to primary five to buy about 16 books. When I was growing up, we didn’t buy many textbooks. We had a library and we used the ones in the house. You now see pupils carrying heavy back packs which affect their spines. It is unfair. If one tells them to keep the books in school, what will they read when they get home?

How do you interact with difficult school owners?

They are the lords of their kingdoms. The only people I can talk to is the accreditation body which ensures that nursery and primary schools get libraries.

Do you think lack of library in a school can affect pupils’ performance?

Yes, it can have a serious negative effect on the performance of the pupils. I grew up in the village and we had a library in my school.

In fact, I attended at least three primary school and they all had libraries. I don’t know where those school owners without libraries in their schools got that culture from. They are only after buildings, making money and neglecting the basic education which is to make a child know how to read and write.

How do you tackle the challenges you encounter while embarking on the academic project?

The basic challenge is convincing the school owners because they would rather spend on information technology. They feel that is the in-thing and that if they have many computers, parents will bring their children to their schools.

I tell them yes, that is good but if you have a good library, some parents will bring their children and also refer other students to your school. There is a school in Ogun State that I helped set up its library, the day the accreditation people visited the school (because the school is yet to be accredited), they were so impressed that they told her that they will send some other schools to her school to come and learn how she was able to put up a library.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]