Education is solution to gender-based violence —Girl guides
Tare Youdeowei

The Nigeria Girl Guides Association has said that education is the solution to rape and other patterns of gender-based violence in Nigeria.

The association, at a two-day training of members of the Gender Mobile Initiative in Ikoyi, Lagos, on Tuesday, also said efforts to track and punish perpetrators of all forms of violence against individuals, including girls and women, may not yield the desired results if the government failed to prioritise education.

Through the Anambra State Commissioner of NGGA and the facilitator of the training, Mrs Helen Obi, the association disclosed, “Today, we are training 15 members of the Mobile Gender Initiative on how to use the NGGA’s Voice Against Violence module or curriculum to further drive advocacy to ensure that some of our laws concerning these issues are implemented fully.

“We as a people may not make any meaningful progress if we do not do the right thing first, which is educating the mind. Education is one of the social services and directive principles of state policies which government must address. It is a fundamental right that governments should ensure that people acquire.

“We are all struggling to sanitise our system but then, we must work on impunity too, which I see in most Nigerians. This is where education plays a huge role. We cannot talk about security and social change without bringing in education just as we cannot also talk about attitudinal change without education. Education is important because it will cultivate the mind and bring about knowledge and desired change,’’ she submitted.

Obi, who is a lecturer at the Faculty of Law, Nnamdi Azikiwe University in Awka, Anambra State, also called for amendment of the country’s constitution, arguing that a lot of laws needed a second look, as accused some cultural practices of promoting gender-based violence.

“In some part of the country, Section 55 Penal Code LFN 2014 encourages beating of wife for the purpose of correction. This is against Section 34 CFRN on the right to dignity of human person,’’ she said.

Also, the Assistant Project Commissioner of NGGA, Mrs Lilian Damie, said the association had trained over 2,400 young leaders from 27 states on issues bordering on the Voices Against Violence curriculum which is an educational programme developed by the Girl Guides globally to educate children and young persons on how to prevent violence anytime.

She added that the curriculum was specifically for young girls between ages five and 26.“For us, running a national training of the GMI members is a plus, as together we shall collaborate at multi levels to promote, advance and support the efforts of governments and organisations to address issues bordering on sexual and other gender-based violence. When we train our young leaders, it is expected that they go back and train others and impact by spreading the message,’’ Damie said.

The Executive Director and Leader of the delegation of the Gender Mobile Initiative, Miss Omowumi Ogunrotimi, said that the NGO was planning to run an in-school based initiative that will be modelled after the `Voice Against Violence’ initiative.

“By June, we will be working with the National Universities Commission, National Board for Technical Education and the National Commission for Colleges of Education to develop a model policy that will address sexual harassment and other gender-based violence for all institutions of higher learning in the country.

“We will also be developing an application where students can report cases of abuse, stalking, sexual harassment and related issues. With the application, they can also track the response of the institution on the verdict on any reported case, and if they are not satisfied with such a verdict, they can make an appeal on the platform,’’ she said.

She however called on governments to show enough political will in implementing policies especially as regards the welfare of the citizenry.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]