More pupils are involved in drug abuse — Psychiatrist
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

A Consultant, Behavioural Physician and Addiction Psychiatrist at the Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital in Yaba, Lagos, Dr Jumoke Koyejo, has said that drug abuse among pupils is on the increase, in spite of the harmful health-related effects.

Koyejo said this while delivering a lecture titled, ‘Discouraging substance use among the youth through education, information and interaction’, at the 2019 Fountain of Hope International Annual Lecture in Ibadan recently.

Describing the situation as worrisome, Koyejo added that illicit substance use and abuse among secondary school children has been linked to irrational behaviour, truancy, changing friends, increase in the theft of valuables and sudden neglect of personal hygiene.

The medical expert urged parents, community leaders, traditional rulers and other relevant stakeholders to help to change the environment for better so youths could lead meaningful lives.

Koyejo also said that 14 per cent of Nigerians between ages 15 and 64 were among those using illicit substances as she urged the government to formulate a viable policy guiding the use of substances in the country, as well as to discourage bad cultural practices.

While calling for effective regulation of manufacturing organisations, she said that there was a need to regulate the availability, accessibility and affordability of illicit substances in the country.

“There is a need for value orientation, sensitisation and enlightenment by all relevant stakeholders so that people will know the negative implications of illegal use of illicit substances.”

The Bishop of Ibadan North Diocese of African Church, Rev Abiodun Ademola, called on Nigerians to avoid negative activities, while seeking the face of God in periods of challenges. “Youths and adults should know that God is against the use of harmful substances, as I urge all and sundry to embrace humility.”

On her part, Mrs Mutiat Okuwobi of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, Oyo State Command, talked about the consequences of substances abuse at the event, which was attended by students, corps members and other stakeholders.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]