ADSU to hold convocation 11 years after
Hindi Livinus, Yola

The Governing Council of the Adamawa State University, Mubi, has requested Governor Ahmadu Fintiri to assist the institution to organise its convocation, which was last held 11 years ago.

Since it was established in 2002 by the Boni Haruna administration, following the return to democratic rule in 1999, ADSU has held only one convocation for its graduating students and that was in 2008.

But Governor Fintiri who took a working visit to Mubi over the weekend while responding to the concerns raised by the newly inaugurated Governing Council of the institution, gave the assurance that his administration would support efforts by the management of the institution to restore the yearly event.

The governor had said, “This administration has given education a priority and it will do everything within available resources to ensure that the university reclaim its status as an institution of excellence after several years of maladministration, which has led to the neglect of the institution.

“In the next few years, under this administration’s support, we want to see this university massively transformed so that it can compete favourably with other universities in the country, so as to enable the citizens of this state, especially children of the poor, gain access to sound university education.”

The governor, who also met with indigenous students groups representing students from the state studying in tertiary institutions across the country, promised to resume the payment of student bursary allowances. Bursary allowances were last paid to students in tertiary institutions seven years ago.

Fintiri reiterated the commitment of his administration to improving the welfare of students, adding that his administration’s free education policy, which covers primary and post-primary education in the state, would benefit the children of the poor.

He commended the Acting Vice-Chancellor of ADSU, Prof Kaletapwa Farauta, for her excellent performance in the university, especially in the renovation of a large capacity hostel and embarking on the construction of a new E-library for the institution despite limited resources.

Auwal Tukur, Chairman of the Governing Council, said the council had commenced actions that would reposition the university.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]