Researches should focus on industrial devt – Don
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The immediate past Chief Medical Director of the University College Hospital, Ibadan, Prof Temitope Alonge, has said that researches in Nigerian universities should be tailored towards promoting industrial development in the country.

Alonge, who said such would create symbiotic relationship between the industry and the academic environment, lamented that most research activities emanating from the universities often focus on the accumulation of publications for promotion with little or no “translational element”.

The professor of Orthopedic and Trauma Surgery spoke recently, while delivering the seventh convocation lecture of Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti, entitled “The Pearl in the Pack,” where he also advocated a share of Tertiary Education Trust Fund grants and subventions to “performing private universities” .

He said, “The time has come for our universities to engage in research activities that are not only translational, but quantitatively and qualitatively relevant for the industries who in turn will utilise the research findings to expand or advance the activities of companies.

“This may translate to increase competitiveness and revenue for industries, discovery of new products or techniques with benefits accruing to both researchers and industries.

“I hope that when the proposed National Research and Innovation Foundation is established, the body will be the needed link between the ‘town and gown’ with emphasis on the needs of the industries as a guide to some research activities.

“The exemplary but successful relationship and linkages that ABUAD has established with the industries truly confirms the feasibility of the town and gown symbiosis which is much talked about”.

Alonge, who traced the problem with university education in Nigeria to deviation from the British directive that Nigerian universities “must be autonomous institutions free from encumbrances of the government”, said the institutions had been polariz]sed by government interference and trade unionism.

He made a case for autonomy, saying, “I submit that full and not partial university autonomy is long overdue and these institutions should create environments for learning, teaching and research that will engender the alumni to seek to be part of the growth of their institutions”.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]