Japanese coy donates desks, others to Ogun schools
Samuel Awoyinfa

A Japanese company, Kawasho Foods Corporation, has donated 450 desks and 11,000 exercise books, among others, to a number of public primary schools in Ogun State.

The items, which included 150 cartons of Geisha products, were presented to the schools at the premises of the State Universal Basic Education Board, Okemosan in Abeokuta on Wednesday.

The beneficiaries of the company’s gesture include NUD Primary School, Oke-Ijeun; St. Saviour Primary School, Ijoko; All Saints Primary School II, Owode; St. Paul’s African Church Primary School, Ifo; Our Lady of Apostles Primary School, Ijebu-Ode; and Community Primary School, Eruwon.

Others are St. John’s Catholic Primary School, Iperu; St. John’s Anglican Primary School, Ayila; Community Primary School, Alagbe; Yewa North Local Government Primary School IV, Oja-Odan; and Ebenezer Baptist Primary School, Saje, Abeokuta.

Receiving the materials, the Secretary of SUBEB, Mr Olalekan Kuye, thanked the company for donating the items and said that the gesture would make learning more convenient for the pupils and encourage them to improve on their academic performances.

Kuye also called on individuals and organisations to join the state government in the area of providing interventions in education, stressing that government would not be able to do it alone.

“There is a need to contribute toward the overall development of our education system,” he added.

He also urged the benefitting schools to make good use of the facilities and materials provided by the company.

The Executive Vice- President,Kawasho Foods Corporation, Shotaro Tsumura, appreciated the people of Nigeria for their continued patronage of the company’s products.

“We shall continue to contribute to children’s education and health. The Geisha brand canned food will continue to be a part of people’s everyday lives,” Tsumara said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]