FG committed to revitalising education sector – Osinbajo
Dayo Ojerinde

The Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, has said that the Federal Government is committed to revatilising the education sector.

Speaking at the 5th edition of the Maltina Teacher of the Year award held in Lagos, Osinbajo described the attainment of excellence in the teaching profession as a continuous journey.

The Vice President, who was represented by the Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, said the Federal Government was ready to address the out-of-school crisis and strengthen basic and secondary education in the country.

He said, “At a time when Nigeria is repositioning herself for a turn-around in her fortune, revitalising the education sector occupies a strategic place in the focus of this administration. This has given rise to the Ministerial Strategic Plan of the Federal Ministry of Education aimed at revamping the sector.

“The plan involves addressing the out-of-school crisis, strengthening basic and secondary education, training and retraining of teachers, adult literacy and special needs’ education as well as education planning and data. Other areas of the sector that would be impacted by this plan include curriculum and benchmark minimum academic standard, technical and vocational education and training, quality assurance access to higher education.”

Osinbajo urged teachers to continue to be an example to the society and impact the generation of young people entrusted in their care.

Also, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, represented by the Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folasade Adefisayo, said teachers as critical stakeholders in the education sector deserved recognition from society.

Also the Managing Director of Nigerian Breweries Plc, Mr Jordi Bel, said an independent panel of judges headed by Prof. Pat Utomi, received 1,310 entries for the Maltina Teacher of the Year award.

A teacher from the Royal Family Academy, Abuja, Mr Collins Ezem, emerged winner of this year’s edition of the award.

Ezem, a 38-year-old teacher of Christian Religious Studies and Civic Education, was rewarded with a gold trophy, a certificate of excellence and a cash prize of N6.5m. His school will also be provided with a block of six classrooms, toilet facilities, and a library for producing him.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]