Nine schools benefit from NYSLC leadership programme
NO fewer than 50 pupils from nine secondary schools across Lagos State have benefitted from a public speaking, communication skills and leadership developmental programme and competition organised by the National Youth Speaking and Leadership Competition.

The annual programme, facilitated by the Association of Private Educators in Nigeria is aimed at helping young minds find their voices, develop communication and leadership skills so that they could stand out and contribute to societal growth and development.

Speaking during the grand finale of the programme, which took place at Oxbridge Tutorial College, Lagos recently, the Coordinator and Public Speaking Trainer/Coach, NYSLC, Mr Victor Ajufoh-Obi, noted that education, apart from book activity, covers character development, communication skills, critical thinking and problem solving skills, needed for the 21st century world.

Ajufoh-Obi explained that countries like Singapore and Malaysia have moved away from being Third World countries to developed countries because they invested in education and leadership development of their young ones.

He added that if Nigeria starts investing in the leadership development skills of its young ones, “in the next 20 years, we would have produced leaders that will take us beyond where we are now.”

He said, “Education is critical to any nation and if we want to get it right as a country, we must educate our populace in leadership and communication skills. One of the things we are doing in partnership with our sponsors is to reach out to secondary school pupils and young adults to give them a voice to enable them communicate adequately and begin to develop leadership skills.

“This is the second edition of this initiative and it is inspired to also help them develop problem solving skills. So far we have trained over 300,000 students. It is not going to stop at just the training, we want to continue to engage their minds in the area of mentoring and so have decided that each of them that participated will speak at the World Speech Conference where they would learn new things and rob minds with their counterparts at a global platform.”

The Executive Secretary, Association of Private Educators in Nigeria, Mrs Omolade Gbadosi, expressed satisfaction at the performance of the pupils, saying that their display demonstrated a lot of hope for the country.

A pupil from Oxbridge Tutorial College, Ayooluwa Ogungbenro, emerged the overall winner of the competition and went away with N50,000 prize money, the second prize was N25,000 while the third prize was N15,000 and other consolation prizes.