Tech-U trains Libya returnees, Niger Delta youths
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

The First Technical University, Ibadan, Oyo State, has trained about 154 Libya returnees and Niger Delta youths in a bid to reduce youth restiveness and rising unemployment in the country.

This was made public during the closing ceremony of a two-week intensive Youth Empowerment Programme facilitated by the Technical Vocational Education and Training board and sponsored by the Federal Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs.

The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof Ayobami Salami, said the youth empowerment programme was one of the institution’s flagship interventions aimed at fighting the rising scourge of unemployment.

He said, “As implemented by the university’s Centre for Technical, Vocational Entrepreneurship Training, the programme is devoted to equipping individuals with skills and entrepreneurship training in carefully-selected areas of needs in the larger society. Besides commitment to bridging the yawning skills gap, the programme is focused on generating self-employment among the teeming youths of the country.

“Tech-U holds the conviction that a truly productive nation must be pivoted on sustained and strategic investment in human capital development. Therefore, this programme, in addition to the other unique offerings anchored on the innovative model of education we are known as a socially responsible corporate entity reflects our avowed commitment to making Nigeria work by getting her young people empowered for wealth creation.”

The VC also disclosed that since the commencement of the initiative, about 350 youths had been trained in diverse skills, saying the institution’s target was to have at least 1,000 beneficiaries before the end of 2019.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]