To transform society, we need qualified teachers — Ambode
Dayo Ojerinde

Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State has singled out qualified teachers as vital tools for a much-needed social transformation in the country.

Ambode, who was represented by the Lagos State Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Oluwatoyin Suarau, said this during the 36th, 37th and 38th joint convocation of the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education, Oto/Ijanikin, Lagos, last Tuesday.

The governor added, “No nation rises above the quality of its teachers. Although the influence of these graduates on society is, indeed, in the womb of time, it is my hope that they will be of such top quality that Lagos State and Nigeria as a whole will be proud of.

“Despite the plethora of laudable programmes competing for the scarce resources of our dear state, our administration has not shirked its responsibilities to the tertiary education sector. We increased subventions and grants to schools including this great college.”

Ambode said the state government was committed to the prompt release of subventions for infrastructural improvement, teacher quality, improvement in quality assessment and other welfare packages for the staff of the college.

A total of 5,674 students graduated from the institution.

The Provost of the college, Dr Omolola Ladele, said the 2,377 fulltime and 3,297 part-time graduates had successfully completed their prescribed courses and were found worthy in learning and character.

Ladele added that the college recently got its 31 academic programmes fully accredited and it trained over 400 members of staff through the Advanced Digits Appreciation Programme for Tertiary Institution.

The Chairman, Governing Council of the College, Prof. Tunde Samuel thanked Governor Ambode for his commitment to providing quality tertiary education in the state.

He said the uniformity in the tenures of the members of the governing councils of all tertiary institutions in the state was an equitable practice capable of driving improved institutional performance.

The college presented the first executive governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Jakande, Senator Olamilekan Solomon and the Chief Executive Officer of Fams Embassy Hotel, Badary, Alhaji Fatai Shokunbi, with the Diamond Award for their contributions to educational development in the state.

Also, the Chairman, Committee on Education, Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr Lanre Ogunyemi, and Prof. Clement Fasan, of the Lagos State University, received the prestigious Alumni Award.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]