Mathematics can make Nigeria great again – Ayodeji
Tare Youdowei

The Marketing Manager of Promasidor Nigeria Limited, Abiodun Ayodeji, has said that with Mathematics education, Nigeria can become great again, since modern development, technology and commerce revolve around the subject.

Ayodeji said this in a statement recently made available to our correspondent.

In the statement, he reiterated Promasidor’s commitment to developing Mathematics education through the Cowbellpedia Secondary Schools Mathematics TV Quiz.

“No nation can truly develop without a conscious investment and effort in Science and Innovation, and Mathematics is the bedrock of both. Even in commerce, if you are doing a Profit and Loss statement, you need to be able to add and subtract, in fact, everything revolves around Mathematics.” Ayodeji said.

Stressing that annual increases in pupil enrolment for the competition was an indication of the growing interest in Mathematics, he added, “In 2019 a total of 56,073 pupils sat for stage one examination of the competition. This marks a 34 per cent increase over the 41,730 pupils who took part in the examination last year.

“The Cowbellpedia initiative has met its objectives of awakening the consciousness and interest in Mathematics amongst Junior and senior secondary school pupils in Nigeria by improving pupils’ performance in Mathematics and creating a credible platform for identifying outstanding pupils, as well as encouraging excellence in the subject.”

Meanwhile, a semi-finalist in the 2018 edition of the quiz competition, Emmanuel Igban, has emerged the second-best candidate in the 2019 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination.

According to the results released by the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board, the 16 year-old pupil of Ambassador College, Ota, Ogun State scored 346 out of 400 in the nationwide examination.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]