Meadow Hall rewards school leaders, teachers
Tare Youdeowei

Three school leaders and three teachers have bagged the Meadow Hall Foundation’s Inspirational Educator Awards.

The awards were presented during the foundation’s education convention, which was themed, Accelerating National Development through Education, held last Saturday in Victoria Island, Lagos

The organisation, which partners with individuals, public and private organisations to implement sustainable initiatives, projects and programmes that support teachers, pupils, schools and communities, made this known in a statement on Monday.

Speaking on the essence of the award, the Head of the foundation, Mr Omotola Oni, said it was a merit-based annual award aimed at elevating the teaching profession and motivating teachers, as well as school leaders, to continue to strive for excellence in their profession.

The founder and Chief Executive Officer of Meadow Hall Group, Mrs Kehinde Nwani said the vision of the foundation was to improve the educational outcomes of the Nigerian child through enhancing teaching quality, changing mindsets about teaching and advocating for the teaching profession.

Stating that the quality of a nation depends largely on the quality of education its citizens have access to; was the keynote speaker, Prof. Josiah Ajiboye.

Ajiboye, who is the Registrar and Chief Executive of the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria said, “I am very glad Meadow Hall is involved in education. It is very clear to me that the government alone cannot fund education. Private participation in education is real and it has come to stay. The only thing you need is the rule and regulation to guide private participation.

“No society can develop beyond its educational system. The level of investment in education determines the quality of the gross national product of a country. The quality of a nation depends upon the quality of its citizens. The quality of its citizens depends not exclusively, but in a crucial measure upon the quality of education.”

The event saw Mrs Adebola Akinbami and Mrs Charity Tony-Ubah bag the Inspirational School Leader of the year award and N1,250,000 each, while Mr Tajudeen Ayofe Amusan emerged runner-up of the Inspirational School Leader of the year and went home with N500, 000.

In the Inspirational Teacher of the year category, the award went to Mr Soji Megbowon and Mr Lanre Oguntoye, who were rewarded with N850,000 respectively. While Mr Olusegun Adeniyi emerged runner-up of the Inspirational Teacher of the year and went home with N500,000.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]