‘Security education should become crucial’
The Chief Operating Officer of Prudential Guards Limited, Mr Tokunbo Phillips, has said there was a need for security education to be considered important, especially in a country with security issues, such as Nigeria.

Philips said this recently when he represented the Chief Executive Officer of the security company, Mr Andrew Utah, at a programme tagged ‘Prudential Guards Academy/City and Guilds International Certificate for Security Personnel Training Induction Ceremony’, held at the company’s premises in Lekki, Lagos.

According to him, the insecurity in parts of the country had made it crucial for people to get good security education and be in top form while on the job.

Phillips said, “The idea is to run a training institute with credible programmes where everything will be based on international standards. The City and Guilds certification was chosen because the Institute has been known for several years to provide courses that are very practical and of high international repute. City and Guilds was, is and will continue to be a credible institution.

“We are in a world where security demands are ever increasing owing to the level of terrorism on the global scene, as well as in our immediate environment and we all need to support moves that can enhance preparedness in the industry. I congratulate the learners and I hope that when they finish the course and acquire their certificates, they will add value to the security services market.”

A representative of City and Guild, Patricia Oppong, who is the Quality Assurance Executive for the West Africa Region, also applauded the training and enjoined the trainees to take the best and make good use of the knowledge acquired in the school.

Oppong emphasised the need for the learners to educate themselves as much as possible so as to provide employers and society with the evidence that they have passed through quality and competence-training for the security market.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]