Greensprings’ diploma students bag $1.3m in scholarships
Twenty-two students of the Greensprings School Sixth Form College have been offered admission to at least five universities each. The students also received $1.3m cumulatively in scholarships.

This was made known by the school in a statement released last Friday, which disclosed that the school’s International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme had prepared the students for admission to top universities and colleges in the United States, United Kingdom and Canada

Expressing satisfaction with the performance of the students, the IB Diploma Principal of the school, Mrs Jennifer Sunkanmi-Qazzeem, said, “It is a common saying among our IB students that being accepted into universities and colleges is a given; the main goal is to be accepted into top universities and colleges with substantial scholarships.

“Therefore, the acceptance of these students into A-list schools re-affirms the fact that the IB diploma programme is the surest way to not only secure admission into top universities and colleges around the world but is also a guaranteed path to securing meaningful scholarships.”

The Deputy Director of Education, Greensprings School, Dr Barney Wilson, also said, “Without any doubt, the school grooms students to become extra-ready for college and university. Over the years, many of our old students have proceeded to top tertiary institutions across the world and graduated with good grades. For this reason, I believe these newly accepted students will be able to face the academic challenges in the tertiary institutions and graduate in flying colours.”

The Greensprings IB Diploma programme is a two-year sixth-form programme designed to prepare secondary school pupils for life in tertiary institutions.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]