‘Inadequate recurrent votes affecting quality of graduates’
Hindi Livinus, Yola

The Provost of the Federal College of Education Yola, Prof.Abdulmumin Sa’ad, has said the paucity of recurrent votes allocated for the daily operations of tertiary institutions in the country, was affecting the quality of graduates.

He sited the wide disparity in the allocations and votes meant for capital projects in the country, compared to allocations given to tertiary institutions for running cost, as the reason most institutions focused on mass production of graduates, regardless of quality.

Sa’ad also said the allocations for running tertiary institutions had dwindled, stressing that in 2014 institutions were getting between six and N10m as running costs but were now only getting N3.1m that was hardly regular.

Speaking to our correspondent, the provost said, “For the past two years the institution has not gotten its running cost monthly and it has only been paid six times. Such a situation forces institutions to cope with accumulated debts in meeting some of their obligations for security, electricity etc.

“The paucity of funds for the daily operations of the institutions has its adverse effects. Besides affecting the commitment of the faculty, it also adversely affects the delivery of the quality output by the institutions. In fact we are supposed to be getting more re-current grants instead because the running of an institution is not a child’s play.

“In a college of education like this you cannot suspend a semester and say until money is available. The academic calendar has to be followed religiously and you need water, electricity, a well stocked clinic, to mention a few. Even with the expansion of infrastructure, you also need to maintain the infrastructure,”Sa’ad said.

He argued that although standards in the educational system had witnessed improvements through the quality of curriculum development, delivery had been adversely impacted by the commitment of lecturers who were stifled by the environment in which they operated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]