Akwa Ibom to review Akwa Poly’s curriculum
Patrick Odey, Uyo

Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State, on Saturday, ordered the authorities of the Akwa Ibom State Polytechnic in Ikot-Osurua, to incorporate Entrepreneurial Development in its curriculum to facilitate economic advancement in the country.

Emmanuel also announced a grant of N100m for the institution to enable it secure full accreditation of courses that were earlier granted interim accreditation by the National Board for Technical Education.

Speaking at the polytechnic’s sixth Convocation for the Award of Fellowship, Diplomas, Certificates and Prizes, held at the school’s Convention Ground, in Ikot Ekpene Local Government Area of the state, he noted that re-jigging the curriculum would enable students to become job creators after graduation rather than job seekers.

“Every single aspect of our development in education should look at entrepreneurship because that is where the next line of action for economic development of any developing country lies. We need to redesign our curriculum and train our people to create jobs,” he said.

He added that the state government was planning an education summit aimed at reshaping the sector, as he revealed that the governing council for AkwaIbom State University and the AkwaIbom State Polytechnic were underway.

The Acting Rector of the polytechnic, Dr Moses Umobong, in his address said the institution was fulfilling its mandate in training and research in Applied Sciences, Technology and other fields to meet the manpower needs of the nation.

He pointed out that over 400 graduates of the polytechnic had been inducted and granted licences for professional practice by the Nigerian Institute of Science Laboratory Technology, a feat he attributed to the high standard and quality of training the students received.

Umobong also said the institution was seeking approval to recruit more staff to address the acute shortage occasioned by accreditation of more courses and rise in the student population

The acting Chairman of the institution’s Governing Council, Dr Samuel Edet, expressed appreciation to the state government for the earlier grant of N200m for the upgrade of facilities in the institution to meet the NBTE accreditation requirements.

Edet also lauded the governor for the regularisation of the condition of service of staff, harmonisation of scheme of service and payment of arrears from 2013, as he announced that the council has concluded plans to name a new academic block after the governor.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]