NGO, Oracle, NCS empower lecturers with tech tools
Ife Ogunfuwa

The Initiative for Information Technology Capacity Building has called for improved education among Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics tutors in the South Eastern part of Nigeria.

The Non-Governmental Organisation made this call at a one-day academia and technology seminar for 72 STEM lecturers in Enugu State.

The seminar which was done in collaboration with the Nigeria Computer Society and Oracle Academy demonstrated educational curriculum resources to help the educators impart knowledge on their students.

Speaking at the seminar with the theme, ‘Teaching for Industry Relevant STEM skills’, a lecturer at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Prof Hettie Abimbola Soriyan, said that STEM teachers needed a change in their mindset to be able to win back students to the classrooms.

She said, “They are working with a generation that does not show as much interest in classroom lectures as it was in times gone by, because their interest in technology, especially social media has increased in leaps, almost as a disadvantage. So, as lecturers, we need to leave our comfort zones to train ourselves to use that technology to reach out to the students. Engage the students; give them some things to think about, analyse and present their thoughts.”

The Executive Secretary, NCS, Iyiola Ayoola, said that from the theme, it was obvious that participants had been exposed to the need to teach computer science or IT courses in a relevant way that it would galvanise the economy into the fourth industrial revolution.

“So, we are talking about lecturers and teachers of Computer Science courses; they should be able to stay ahead of the class and the result is graduates who are ready to conquer in this technological dispensation. We have many IT courses now in Big Data, Robotics, Mobile Internet, Internet of Things, Blockchain and Virtual Reality. These are disruptions in the IT industry that should be taught with the relevant tools and revamped curriculum.

During her presentation, the Country Programmes Manager, sub-Saharan Africa, Oracle Academy, Sefunmi Fadahunsi, reiterated the global IT giant’s determination to impact the next generation of professionals through free educational resources around STEM that teachers and schools could leverage to deliver quality teaching and learning experience.

Fadahunsi said, “It means that students need to be engaged practically to be able to learn STEM so that they can have skills relevant in the industry. All the resources Oracle Academy has for them is free. The resources are industry relevant.”

Meanwhile, the Founder, Initiative for Information Technology Capacity Building, i4itcb, Dele Bayo-Osibo, explained the rationale behind the seminar.

“The idea is that we will, over time, close the gap between the industry and the academia. We believe in moving from ‘Knowledge to Impact’; which is our slogan. And as such, we want to impart knowledge in the academia because we believe they are critical stakeholders in this move to improve IT technicians, professionals in the polity”, Bayo-Osibo said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]