NACETEM begins country technology audit
Everest Amaefule, Abuja

With a sensitisation workshop in Abuja on Monday, the National Centre for Technology Management kicked off Nigeria’s first technology audit with intent to usher a new era in the country’s quest for technological development.

At the workshop, Director- General of NACETEM, Prof Okechukwu Ukwuoma, said the audit would determine available expertise, infrastructure and technology.

He said that in the quest for a new drive in technological development, it was important to determine the gaps that needed to be filled, regretting that the country had never undertaken any technology audit in the past.

Ukwuoma said, “If Nigeria wants to go anywhere technologically, do we have the requisite expertise, the instruments, the requisite infrastructure to be able to go to where we want to be technologically? When you want to go somewhere, you determine where you want to go and plan how to get there.

“We continue to talk about technological development. We have it in the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan and we have it in the technology roadmap of the ministry but where are we at present technologically? That is in expertise, infrastructure and the technology itself; where are we? That is why this audit is very important at this particular time.”

He added, “In one or two years of this research, we will be able to give Nigeria a document that will help Nigeria to programme where to go technologically. Based on what is on ground, we will be able to know what we need to provide to fill the gap that is noticed or that is discovered within the study.

“The key sectors to be covered include agriculture, health, mining, and environment. These are the key sectors we are going to talk about but you know that every aspect of the economy requires science and technology to be able to operate.”

Speaking at the event, Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, said that the audit was a demonstration of the primacy of science, technology and innovation in national development.

Onu who was represented by the Director, Planning and Research Policy Analysis, Suleiman Ibrahim, said the objective of the project was to identify the technologies relevant for Nigeria’s sustainable development.

He added that it would also examine the barriers to technology utilisation in the country and develop the framework and action plan for exploiting the technologies for the country’s development.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]