Institutions should encourage diversification to Agric — Don
Peter Dada, Akure

The Rector of Moshood Abiola Polytechnic in Ipokia, Ogun State, Dr Samson Odedina, has called on tertiary institutions create various short agricultural programmes for unemployed graduates in the country.

He said agriculture was a major solution to the current economic challenges the country was facing, including unemployment.

Odedina, who was the provost of the Federal College of Agriculture, Akure, stated this in Akure, on Sunday after being conferred with the award of Outstanding Provost in Nigeria.

According to him, there was a need for tertiary institutions, particularly agricultural institutes, to make the Federal Government’s effort at diversifying the economy a success by training graduates of other disciplines in agricultural programmes to enable them make money.

He said, “The opportunities are there for young people. Agriculture is a way of creating jobs, promoting foreign exchange earnings and industrialisation but young people must know that there are opportunities there. What we must know is that you can’t prosper by simply going into agriculture, basic training is necessary before you venture into agriculture. Agriculture institutions should begin to roll out training programmes, it does not necessarily need to be two, three or four years programmes, it may last for just three weeks or four weeks.”

Odedina added that the country had the most fertile ground for diversification as the nation was blessed with good weather and soil for agriculture.

He also urged the government to continue to create an enabling environment for agriculture so the youth could take advantage of the numerous opportunities in the sector.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]