NCC trains 110 FEDPOFFA members of staff in ICT
Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin

No fewer than 110 members of staff of the Federal Polytechnic Offa, have been trained on Information and Communication Technology applications by the Nigerian Communications Commission.

The staff were trained through the Digital Bridge Institute; an international Centre for Information and Communications Technology Studies.

The just-concluded training which took place in the ICT studios of the institution were attended by both teaching and non-teaching staff participants and ran for a week. The objective of the programme was to enhance and equip the academic and non-academic staff of the Polytechnic with practical skills in the use of Microsoft Word, Excel, and Powerpoint applications software to improve productivity.

Rector of the Polytechnic, Dr Lateef Olatunji represented by the Deputy Rector Administration, Dr Olarongbe Afolabi appreciated the NCC to have counted the Polytechnic worthy of such educative programme and commended the facilitators for the time and effort devoted to training the participants.

He also acknowledged the staff composure and commitment during the training programme.

It will be recalled that the NCC recently donated 110 laptops to the polytechnic through the Commissions School Support Project. Also, the Polytechnic Staff Secondary School last year benefited from the e-Pad Project by the same Commission.

In his remark, the Registrar, Alhaji Abdulhamid Raji congratulated the participants and enjoined them to use the knowledge acquired during the ICT training to enhance their service delivery.

The DBI facilitators commended the Polytechnic for the reception which they said is one of the best. They promised to convey the good record and comportment of the trainees to the NCC and gave the assurance to inform the NCC about the Polytechnic request for more ICT training opportunity to enable more staff benefit.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]