Insecurity made us shun unity schools – Parents
Tare Youdeowei

The results for the 2019 National Common Entrance Examination conducted by the National Examination Council for admission into unity schools, which was conducted on April 27, have been released.

However, before the examination was held, the deadline for the registration of candidates had to be postponed from April 13 to April 27 due to low registration of candidates.

In the last few years, the examining body experienced a steady decline in the number of candidates. The year 2014 recorded 95,926 registered candidates. In 2015, just about 86,000 pupils registered for the examination, while 90,786 and 80,421 pupils registered for the examination in 2016 and 2017, respectively. Also, 71,294 candidates registered in 2018. In 2019, 75,635 candidates registered for the examination.

The acting Registrar of NECO, Mr Abubakar Gana, attributed the drop in the number of candidates for the 2019 examination to lack of sponsorship.

“The number dropped because of the politics in the country. The politicians that used to bankroll candidates for the exams were busy in the field. So it affected the number. Most of the candidates in the Northern states are assisted by politicians.”

Meanwhile, in 2015, the Minister of State for Education, Prof. Anthony Anwukah, blamed the decline in registration of candidates on the security crises in the country at the time.

Also, the recently appointed Education Sub -Committee of the Presidential Committee on North-East Initiative revealed that in the nine years, 2,295 teachers had been killed and 19,000 others were displaced in Bornu, Yobe and Adamawa states. The committee further disclosed that since 2014 about 1,500 schools had been destroyed, with over 1,280 casualties recorded among teachers and pupils.

Upon investigating, our correspondent found that parents were not just aware of the pressing security issues, they were, according to them, avoiding unity schools because of the insecurity in the country.

A resident of Lagos, LanreGbadamosi, whose 10 year-old child was preparing to write an entrance examination into a private school, told our correspondent, “As much as I attended a unity school and I have friends from different tribes as a result of that education, I cannot help but avoid federal government colleges because of the killings all over the country.

“Only this morning (Thursday) we have heard of cult clashes in Edo State and herdsmen attacks in Taraba State, both of which have left dead bodies in their wake. There is even a report of gunmen burning a Police station. If that can happen to a police station, then my child is going nowhere beyond my reach.”

Another parent, Jacob Onyema, said the insecurity in the country was enough reason to shut down unity schools in volatile states.

“The number of pupils registered for common entrance, if it were up to me, will continue to reduce because the country is not safe. I feel the best thing for our unity schools is to close down the ones in troubled states because to allow my child to write common entrance means I am prepared to have him sent to the North, that, I cannot do,” he said.

A retired principal of one of the unity schools, Mr Sola Kolawole, said he didn’t believe that parents were losing interest in unity schools, as he blamed poor publicity strategies and insecurity for the low registration rates recorded over the years.

“I don’t believe that people are losing interest in unity schools. I think the major cause is lack of publicity. Many parents are not aware of when the registration begins. I believe that to create awareness, the Federal Ministry of Education needs to go to the media houses to advertise. Also, the schools’ authorities, as well as private schools, must be involved so that awareness can be created.

“Another reason is insecurity. Many parents do not want their children to leave their vicinity, so it is believed that when you take unity exams, you would be posted to any of the 104 unity schools in the federation if you pass the exam. Parents are aware of this and because of the insecurity, they do not want their children to enrol,” Kolawole said.

He, however, suggested that in addition to building perimeter fences, the Parents Teachers Associations and other stakeholders could to intervene in improving security in unity schools.

“For instance, most of the schools do not have trained personnel as security officers rather, they have gatemen. Nonetheless, the gatemen could be converted by exposing them to adequate training from various security outfits. There is a need to create security awareness in the pupils, too. We need to make a law that says, “see something, say something”. The collaboration between the PTA, old pupils and various groups involved can drastically reduce the fears of insecurity,” Kolawole said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]