Skyline varsity matriculates 82 pioneer students
Ted Odogwu, Kano

The Skyline University Nigeria has held the maiden matriculation for its 82 pioneer students in a ceremony that had the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II and other dignitaries in attendance

Speaking during the event, the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Dr Sudhakar Kota, challenged the students to take advantage of the unique opportunity to not only become successful in their academic pursuits, but also responsible citizens of the country.

Kota gave the students the assurance that at the end of their stay in the institution, they would be better equipped with the basic skills and value-based based education to serve the community within the legal and ethical framework of Nigeria.

The VC further urged the students to make the best out of the university, adding, “SUN has given assurance to provide you with quality inputs, technological integration, learning resources and use internationally accepted pedagogies that will enhance your knowledge, skills and competencies with values”.

Earlier, the Emir of Kano, who was represented by Ambassador Ahmed Umar challenged the management of the university, the first private University in Kano, to produce quality students, who would be ready for absorption by reputable firms in the country.

The monarch also advised the university authorities to focus on imparting entrepreneurial skills, rather than on theory-based knowledge. Describing university education as a marriage of theory and practical skills, he said the time had come to produce graduates equipped with entrepreneurial skills, who would be promptly engaged without acquiring additional skills.

The Emir thanked the management of the university for establishing the first private university in the North, adding that he was proud of the institution for its determination and commitment to offering quality education, which was in harmony with the university’s motto, which emphasised knowledge, skills and value-based education.’’

Also, in his welcome address, the Registrar of the University, Mr Satya Vir Singh, promised that the 82 pioneer students would not regret choosing Skyline University as it was committed to providing quality education tailored to the needs of Nigerian industries.

The students were admitted into various Bachelor degree programmes in the School of Arts Management and Social Sciences, as well as the School of Sciences and Information Technology, based on the requirements of National Universities Commission.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]