Westland varsity’ll end importation, says Chancellor
Tare Youdeowei

The Chancellor, Westland University in Iwo, Osun State, Dr Wole Adepoju, has said that the university is ready to decrease imported goods in the country by focusing on the technical productivity of its undergraduates.

Adepoju disclosed this in a statement recently, where he also revealed that the institution would be ICT driven as the Federal Executive Council had in January, approved the establishment of the institution, alongside three other private universities.

He also said the university would commence with 750 students in June, in its bid to emphasise technical productivity.

“The country’s economy has constantly faced setbacks over the years as a result of over-reliance on importation, despite the fact that most of the raw materials used for the finished products are originally sourced from here. As a result, we want to train students on how to produce by using locally sourced materials to meet the country’s 21st century needs. We will focus on innovation and raw material production for productivity which will be our strength, just as the university will be ICT driven.

“We want to make a difference in the university system in the country. Our university will be known for technical and entrepreneurial skills acquisition and development. We want to stop the importation of not just textiles, but furniture as well. The institution will mould young Nigerians to be self-employed. It will produce graduates who will be willing to go into agriculture, engineering and other fields,” Adepoju said.

He added that all the needed infrastructure for the takeoff of the university were on the ground, just as the management had engaged the services of competent lecturers for the colleges of Physical Sciences and the Social and Management Sciences as recommended by the commission.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]