‘Schools, parents should raise global leaders together’
The Managing Director of Chrisland Schools, Mrs Ibironke Adeyemi, has said that schools and parents should play vital roles in raising global leaders.

Adeyemi said this during the 2019 Chrisland Schools parent’s forum themed, ‘Parenting Issues: Let’s talk about them’ held recently in Lagos.

In her welcome address, Adeyemi said the forum was aimed at bringing parents and the school together to foster mutual understanding and achieve the common goal of parenting.

She said, “Coming together is part of our role in raising a brilliant child and our ultimate goal is to raise generational leaders. We insist on discipline and inculcating good morals in our children. We want children to be treated with love and care so they can be accountable for their actions.

“Discipline is encompassing, it means integrity and empathy and the child should know what is right and wrong. With the rising rate of social vices, both the school and parents have a hard nut to crack. This forum is a bid to overcome these challenges, as there is no end to parenting. We shall continue to thrive for the better.”

While delivering the keynote lecture, the guest speaker, Mrs Charity Babatunde said that children were prone to social vices and the need for active parenting from all was required.

“Teenagers struggle with mental stress, insecurity, drug abuse, academic career, self-image, social media and more. The role of parents includes learning, unlearning and relearning in this 21st century. I started with myself as a mother by inculcating discipline then I was able to reinforce values into my children.

“As parents in this modern time, the goal of parenting has not changed, the arena of parenting has changed, therefore, the method of parenting must change. The goal of parenting is to raise productive individuals who grow up to be useful to themselves, add value to their relationships, as well as to society,” Babatunde said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]