UBEB organises drawing competition for 35 schools
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Universal Basic Education Board in the Federal Capital Territory has organised a creative drawing competition for 35 public and private secondary schools in Abuja.

The competition, which was funded by the Korean Cultural Centre of Nigeria, was said to be aimed at sharpening the innovation and skills of about 150 pupils who participated in the competition on Wednesday.

At the competition, which was themed, Freedom, the UBEB Head, Cultural and Arts Unit, Mrs OkaforIsioma, said the pupils were asked to draw and paint on the theme to depict the warm relationship which existed between Nigeria and the Korea Republic.

She said, “These pupils are from the grassroots because we are trying to develop their talents. Korea started this drawing competition about nine years ago and they have been doing it with us every year. We have over 150 pupils and 35 teachers who participated and the schools are drawn from both the private and public sectors. There were a workshop and training for the art teachers where they were instructed on how to translate the same skills to these pupils.”

Also, the KCCN Director, Mr Lee Jin-Su, said the competition was to drive innovation, friendship, socio-economic and youth development in the country.

He said, “Between our two countries, it is about the development of skills for the pupils. The young children can grow up, develop friendship and interests in the arts and culture sector. It is helpful to also promote economic, political and inter-governmental integration.

“The results of the competition will be announced on May 21, at an award ceremony. The theme, freedom, was chosen to promote creative thinking and test the thinking capability of Nigerian pupils.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]