LASU to produce 57 first class graduates
Tare Youdeowei

The Lagos State University in Ojo, Lagos has revealed that it is set to produce 57 first class students among the 14,369 to graduate at the 23rd convocation of the school.

This was made known by the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Olarenwaju Fagbohun, during a press conference at the school on Thursday.

Fagbohun said the ceremony, billed for May 10 to May 16, would feature a convocation lecture titled ‘Africa Centres of Excellence in African Universities: A Veritable Catalyst for Nation Building and Development’ to be delivered by the Vice President, Prof. Oluyemi Osinbajo.

With the former President of Ghana, John Mahama, as chairman of the occasion, the VC added that the ceremony will see the university “graduate total of 14, 369 students. This comprises of Diploma – 54, first degree – 10,252 and higher degrees, which comprise of postgraduate diploma, academic masters, professional masters and doctor of philosophy – 4,063.

“At this year’s convocation, we will be graduating 57 first class students. Never in the history of LASU have we had it so good. Two graduates, Ridwan Ola-Gbadamosi of the Faculty of Engineering and Nneka Enumah of the Faculty of Science graduated with a Cumulative Grade Point Average of 4.88 to emerge as the overall best graduating students,” Fagbohun said.

He further disclosed that the university had successfully received accreditation of 37 academic programmes from the National Universities Commission thus bring all the institution’s accredited programmes to 70.

The VC also said the university had successfully commenced the admission of its first set of students at the Lagos State University Open Distance Learning Research Institute, as well as inaugurated the Centre for Afro-Brazilian Studies at the Faculty of Arts.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]