Shun social vices, Dean advises CRUTECH’s 6,245 students
Ada Wodu, Calabar

The Chairman, Committee of Deans at the Cross River University of Technology, Calabar, Prof Mathew Ogar, has warned students admitted into the institution for the 2018/2019 academic session to shun all forms of social vices while studying in the institution.

He gave the charge at the 17th Matriculation ceremony of the institution held on Thursday in Calabar.

Ogar, who addressed t6,245 fresh students in the absence of a substantive Vice-Chancellor, told the students that their matriculation was “a major take-off point for defining the path to your success in life. Consequently, I charge you to be focused, disciplined and studious.

“You must resolve to wrestle with your distracting forces which may conflict and compete with your primary purpose of achieving academic excellence.

“I equally urge you to shun cultism and all forms of examination malpractice, such as ‘sorting’. The university has zero tolerance for cultism and other forms of social vices. Therefore, the university will not hesitate to apply extant laws and statutes in punishing offenders.”

He urged the students to respect constituted authority, adhere to rules, regulations, tenets and good traditions of the institution and reminded the students to pay their fees promptly as the university no longer tolerated arrears of school fees payment.

He acknowledged the support for the institution by the state the government led by Governor Ben Ayade, adding that the governor “holds CRUTECH dear to his heart and craves for a world-class university by providing needed resources to achieve this feat.”

Among the matriculants, Faculty of Education had the highest with 1337 students followed by Faculty of Engineering with 982 students, Faculty of Management Sciences with 883, Faculty of Physical Sciences with 847, and Faculty of Basic Medical Science with 701.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]