Varsities’ conditions of service need regular review – Oyo-Ita
Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin

The Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Mrs Winifred Oyo-Ita, has said that the condition of service for universities need to be reviewed regularly.

Speaking as a guest speaker at the Third Annual Registry Lecture of the University of Ilorin, Oyo-Ita noted that the key training and manpower development centres of the universities must be subjected to critical review.

She said, “The condition of service for universities must be subjected to regular review in tandem with new trends and challenges in the day to day administration of universities. The key training and manpower development centres of the universities must be subjected to a critical review of their curriculum in line with international best practices.

According to the Head of Service, “The educational curriculum of tertiary institutions must create a deserving subject matter on university administration for the sake of those who want to choose a career as university administrators.”

Oyo-Ita added that potential university registrars and vice-chancellors must be mandated to undergo compulsory training on university administration as a prerequisite for their appointment.

She, however, noted that there is a need for an enabling condition of service to be created. Adding that, “this has to do mainly with adequate pay package and other economic incentives for university staff. This will discourage staff from using unethical means in getting economic benefits from students and the public in general.”

Vice-Chancellor of the University, Prof. Sulyman Abdulkareem, said the lecture started four years ago as a result of the desire of reliable non-teaching staff to continuously enhance their performance for the continuous glory of the University.

“They have been using the annual registry lecture and monthly registry seminar series as veritable avenues to train and re-train themselves with the apparent aim of developing their managerial skills for dealing with the challenges of the modern university system.

“Of course, the university management supports these initiatives and will continue to do so for a long time to come. This is not only because the initiatives are in line with our commitment to the culture of staff development but also because they have been enhancing effective service delivery that is significantly aiding the achievement of our mission.”

Also speaking, the University of Ilorin Registrar, Dr Folaranmi Olowoleni, said the institution had decided to raise the bar with the presence of the head of the civil service of the Federation.

He said it was the desire of the institution to study, understand and appreciate the linkages between the university system and other organs of government, local, state or federal.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]