Oxbridge Academy unveils Int’l Year One Law programme
Tare Youdeowei

Oxbridge Academy in Ikeja, Lagos, has unveiled an International Year One Law programme to provide more cost-saving opportunities for students to study in the United Kingdom.

This was made known by the Managing Director of the academy, Dr Femi Ogunsanya, during a press conference in the academy’s premises on Thursday.

Ogunsanya said, “The international year one programme is the first year of the undergraduate. Equating it to the Nigerian system, the foundation programme is year one, while the international year one is year two. We started with the business stream three years ago and today we are recording another success. It is the first time that the law programme, in any of the centres worldwide, is being introduced.

“We calculated how much was being saved by keeping the child back one extra year in Nigeria, which came to about N15m depending on the university that the student is progressing to attend. So, this is a plus for us because there must be added value to move Oxbridge ahead of any competition.

“We are doing this with our partners, the Northern Consortium of United Kingdom Universities, and as a centre, they audit us to ensure that we are constantly delivering what is at par with any other centre worldwide. At the end of the day, the students get their UK qualification from their desired university.”

The Market Development Director of NCUK, Georgina Jones, said the consortium, which is a charity organisation that offers students a pathway to universities in the UK was assuring Nigerians that the International Year One Law would maintain the same standard as already existing programmes in the Academy.

“We track their growth in any of 17 UK universities, or any university of their choosing. From our foundation year, we know that over 95 per cent of our students pass the first year of university so we have a very high pass rate. Last year we had 100 per cent of our students pass the second year of our university. With Law, we are ensuring the same standard regardless of location.

“For now, the International Year One Law is kicking off in five universities and the others will come on board later. The students will study 20 hours a week and they can work for 20 hours a week if they desire,” Jones said.

Also, the Head, School of Law, University of Bradford, United Kingdom, Prof. Engobo Emeseh, spoke on the success rate of students who progressed into through the NCUK as she ensured that the UK would continue to be at the forefront of ever-evolving global education.

“The students will constantly be prepared for the world of work as they will be kept abreast of the dynamism in everyday life, as opposed to learning the same thing over and over again,” Emeseh said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]