FCE (T) Akoka matriculates 311 new students
Tare Youdeowei

The Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, Lagos, has matriculated 311 students into degree programmes for the 2018/2019 academic session in affiliation with the University of Benin, Edo State.

The Acting Provost of the institution, Mr Ephraim Dada, urged the new students, comprising 219 first degree and 92 direct entry students, to avoid actions that could seriously affect their studies and to strive hard for academic excellence and the good of society.

He said, “The university and college have philosophies and values upon which they were established to provide quality science, vocational and technical education to students, who in turn will impart the knowledge to the larger society.

“To accomplish this, it is pertinent that you pay particular attention to academic excellence, set high academic and moral standards for yourselves and remain focused. For your academic excellence, you are required to cultivate the habit of attending lectures regularly and punctually.

“As students, you are expected to be of good conduct, observe laid down rules and regulations, eschew evil and shun all associations and groups that will put you on a collision course with the college and university authorities.”

The Vice-Chancellor, University of Benin, Prof. Osasere Orumwense, stated that the university had already recognised the certificates that the students would receive from the college.

Orumwense, who was represented by the Dean of the Faculty of Education at UNIBEN, Prof. Ede Iyamu, said, “You cannot afford to gamble with this rare opportunity of being admitted to the University of Benin because it requires you to be serious, focused, determined, diligent and disciplined.

“I urge you to work in hand with the college’s management to ensure the institution remains on the high pedestal that it is currently occupying. The university is confident and comfortable going into affiliation with FCE (T); you are in safe hands.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]