Aisha Buhari canvasses digital reading aid for visually impaired
Olufemi Atoyebi, Abuja

The wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, has called on private organisations to support the education of people with disability by providing digital reading aid so that they can contribute to national development.

Buhari, who spoke during the distribution of digital braille Qurans by the National Orientation Agency and Qatar Charity Organisation to people who were visually impaired in Abuja said she would support the organisation in its quest to promote education in Nigeria.

According to her, digital braille was a positive addition to learning, stressing the importance of knowledge to nation building.

She said, “I encourage charity organisations to do more for education by providing digitalised knowledge assistance for the less-privileged in society. The digital braille is an addition to school libraries and learning. It is a great addition to the teaching of Islam among our people. It is important for our children and it will encourage them to read despite their disability. My Future Assured Foundation and Aisha Buhari Foundation will support Qatar Charity in promoting education in Nigeria. I commend the charity organisation for doing this.”

About 236 visually impaired persons from the Federal Capital Territory, Nasarawa and Niger states benefitted from the donation.

The Executive Director of Qatar Charity Organisation in Nigeria, Hamdi El-Sayed, said the organisation placed much emphasis on education, saying the initiative would be replicated in other parts of the country.

“Those who cannot see deserve the opportunity to read like normal people with the aid of technology. It is the first time we are bringing this to Nigeria and we plan to do the same for people with visual challenges in other states. We have orphanages in many parts of Nigeria where more than 1,700 orphans are being given the necessary support to live normal lives like other children,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]