Children feast on books at maiden Akada Festival
Tare Youdeowei

At the maiden edition of Akada Children’s Book Festival, which was organised by Clever Clogs Books, a children’s book publishing outlet based in Lagos, more than 2,400 guests – comprising mostly children – surprisingly showed uncommon interest in reading books.

Admission to the event, held at the British Council in Ikoyi, was free and most of the guests were clearly excited at the sight of so many children’s books on display during the festival.

The Convener of the festival and author of Tobi Visits the Conservatory, Kob the Antelope and Diary of a Toddler, Mrs Olubunmi Aboderin-Talabi, said the festival was borne out of a desire to exclusively cater to the reading needs of children.

Speaking to our correspondent, she said, “I am a children’s picture books author. Part of my professional and business development is to attend book fairs and literary festivals all over the world. What I noticed was that in Nigeria, I could not find any book festival for children. The ones around were geared towards adults and not all of them had a children’s section. So, I thought it would be good to have an exclusive festival for children. That is why we are here today.”

Aboderin-Talabi also explained that attendance at the festival was free because she didn’t want anyone to be excluded. “We wanted to make it available to as many people that wanted to come and read a book. And we have a lot of exhibitors, self-published authors and traditional books sellers,” she added.

She described the turnout at the festival as proof that the reading culture, especially among children, was still intact. She also said that she had no fear that e-books would take over hard books in due course.

“If all the book editors deal in printed matter, that is telling us something. I have no fear that e-books will take over and I personally love reading printed matter. However, the world is constantly changing and I hope the printed matter will still be in wide circulation.

“I do not think the reading culture in Nigeria is dwindling at all, as we had to even close the registration early due to overpopulation. Each workshop was overbooked. So we are running them multiple times. The point is actually to get people to read either electronically or with hard copies,” she said.

At the festival, children had an opportunity to listen to their favourite authors read to them. For example, Nomthi Odukoya, the author of Don’t Touch Me There, a book that teaches children about sexual abuse, had a reading session with the children. Also, the author of Ugo and Sim Sim, Tonye Faloughi-Ekezie, was on ground to display the book.

Odukoya confessed that she could not have enough of the festival because it was well organised for a very good cause. “I like how the festival brings different people to talk to children and parents. We can’t have enough of it because it educates children and makes them to meet their counterparts from other parts of Lagos.

“I had a feeling that the turnout would be like this with the way it was put together. The package and objective were clear. I am looking forward to having it bigger and in other parts of Nigeria as well,” she said.

While the children were having the ‘time of their lives’, as a guest put it, parents and teachers got busy at Yetty William’s workshop themed Being your child’s superhero.

The host of the workshop, Oghale Otokunefor, explained that it was “basically about teaching parents and teachers how to stay relevant in the lives of the children under their care, be it their child, children or pupils in school.

“A superhero is a problem solver. As children grow older, they have different questions that come with age, hence parents need to stay relevant and evolve with their children. Stay relevant and never tell your child “I do not know”. By doing this, your child will know that he can Google it and also understand that his parent is up to the task. This makes you their reference point always.

“Be the ultimate Google and let them know that it is not everything they read on the Internet that is true. Also, when hiring househelps, behave as if you are hiring an employee. Find out who they are, their values and teach them your own family values so that there will be no disconnect in your home.”

There was another workshop in which the facilitator, Seun Akinbohun, taught children the ‘magic of the four jars’ (save, invest, give, spend), and where money comes from.

A parent, Mrs Adekanla Adegoke, described the festival as a good event for children, with regard to books that introduced the children to African culture and African authors.

“I liked the sessions where people were interested in learning life skills, saving money, learning how their bodies work and privacy as regards their bodies. I didn’t expect as many vendors and I didn’t expect them to have so many sessions for children. Also, I didn’t expect the children to get excited about reading. Hopefully, we will have more people selling books and more places for children to go to.”

One of the children in attendance, eight-year-old, Ebinimi, said she read six books at the festival’s Pop-Up library and was looking forward to buying a lot of books.

“I am enjoying myself and I cannot wait for my mummy to buy me a lot of books. It is very interesting and during the reading session on Ugo and Sim Sim, I learnt that some people have Down Syndrome, which makes them slower, but it doesn’t mean you treat them differently. They are the same as you. I also read ‘Don’t touch me there’ that taught me about respecting people’s private parts. I will like this festival to take place all the time,” she said.

Six-year-old Oluwadesire also said she enjoyed reading books like Tango, Cinderella, Beauty and the Beast, with her friends at the Reading Corner.

The children were also taught finger knitting, as they indulged in Bouncing Castle and other games.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]