Lagos technical colleges graduate 1,608 pupils
Tare Youdeowei

Six technical colleges in Lagos State have graduated 1,608 pupils in various fields of technical and vocational studies.

The graduates comprise 952 pupils in Engineering Trades, 302 in Construction Trades, 303 in Miscellaneous Trades, 21 in Business Trades, and 30 in Federal Craft Training Certificate, National Technical Certificate and National Business Certificate.

This was made known in a statement signed by Odusina Akeem of the Public Affairs Unit in the Office of the Deputy Governor.

While commending the graduates for choosing technical education, the Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Dr Idiat Adebule, urged them to use their acquired skills to contribute their quota to the technological and economic development of the country.

Adebule expressed the optimism that the growth rate of enrolment in technical and vocational colleges would meet the state’s technological and vocational needs, as she charged the graduates to make effective use of their training by creating jobs, inventing and producing products and services that would satisfy the demands of the open market and be globally competitive.

“You have been trained and fully equipped with adequate skills to make you employable. You have been exposed to modern equipment and tools to not only to seek paid employment but also to be self-employed, as well as create jobs,” Adebule stated.

She also commended the state’s Technical and Vocational Board for effectively regulating technical and vocational education and making the state’s technical education a model for the whole country.

The deputy governor added that the state government was pleased with the performance of 91.7 per cent pass of the 2017/2018 set in the May/June 2018 NABTEB Examinations, an improvement of the 66.01 per cent pass in 2015.

Adebule further disclosed that Governor Akinwunmi Ambode had approved the establishment of technical colleges in Ibeju Lekki, Badagry and Alimosho in response to the growing pupils’ enrolment and the need to encourage technical vocation among the youths.

In her welcome address, the Executive Secretary, Lagos State Technical and Vocational Board, Mrs Omolara Erogbogbo noted that the provision of technical and vocational education in the state had helped to curb crime and restiveness among youths, adding that the state government was doing its best to assist graduates of its technical colleges.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]