Ekiti retools technical colleges for technological growth
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Chairman, Ekiti State Technical and Vocational Education Board, Kayode Babade, has revealed that all was set for the accreditation and reaccreditation of all the courses offered in the six technical and vocational training centres in the state by the National Board for Vocational and Technical Education.

Babade, who identified technical education as a major key for improving the country’s economy said the state government would invest in the sector to achieve its goal and meet the demands of the labour market.

He made this known during a briefing on Wednesday in Ado Ekiti, where he disclosed that in readiness for the accreditation of the colleges the government had begun the installation of laboratory and workshop equipment at the Technical College, Ado-Ekiti.

“For a government that wants to join the league of global technological giants, learning facilities in its technical schools should be regularly updated. Achieving technological advancement is not just playing to the gallery; it is about showing commitment and matching words with reality. The equipment, when operational, will enable the pupils to receive various training in vocational and technical subjects, as well as prepare them to compete favourably with their counterparts in the labour market.

“Very soon the technical schools at Igbara-Odo, Ijero and Otun-Ekiti, will also be upgraded to international standard. The Technical College in Ado-Ekiti has been adopted as a model of how a technical college should look like in terms of infrastructure and equipment,” he said.

Babade lauded the vision and mission of the State Governor, Dr KayodeFayemi, in the resuscitation of the technical schools in the state in a bid to develop the youth in skill acquisition and capacity building.

He added that the government had also concluded the arrangement to renovate all hostels and sports centres of in the colleges to make them more conducive for pupils.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]