Edo poly students develop mobile app for school
Adekunle Peter, Benin

Three students of Edo State Polytechnic, Usen, have developed mobile software to fast track the deployment of information in the school management process.

The students are Kelvin Ekhosuehi, the leader of the team, Olufunmilayo Emmanuel, and Oluwaseun Philip.

The Rector of the polytechnic, Prof. Abiodun Falodun, who disclosed this in a chat with journalists, said the achievement was as a result of the state government’s charge to tertiary institutions to lead the way for innovation in the state.

He disclosed that the students were tasked with the development of the application by the school to showcase their abilities and contribute to solving societal problems with the use of technology.

He said, “The students are a good example of the spirit of enterprise and solution-driven approach to education that we have come to institute at this polytechnic. The application developed by the students is already available on Google Play Store and it provides an interface for students to pay their fees, check their profile, as well as learn about the latest developments in the school. There is a very impressive user interface that makes it easy to navigate as well. We are proud of the students that developed this application.”

Falodun added that the school’s management was putting structures in place to engage students of the institution in worthwhile ventures and provide platforms for them to contribute to solving societal problems using technology.

“We have ensured that a number of our programmes are geared towards ensuring that students are prepared to face the world and prove themselves to have acquired top rate education at this polytechnic. We are very delighted that the first set of people we have given this task have proven to us that we are indeed a leading hub for ICT training,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]