New varsity has brought excitement to Imo – Okorocha
Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri

The Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, has said the operational licence issued by the National Universities Commission for the commencement of academic activities at the University of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences, Umuagwo, has brought excitement to the people of the state.

Okorocha, in a press statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, in Owerri said education was the state’s biggest priority, adding that the establishment of the state-owned university would offer youths more access to tertiary education.

Okorocha also urged the governor-elect, Emeka Ihedioha, to continue the free education programme which his administration established in the state seven years ago.

The statement read in part, “There has been growing excitement among well-meaning Imo people following the news that Governor Rochas Okorocha has received the operational licence for the newly established University of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences, Aboh/Ngor/Umuagwo, from the National Universities Commission.

“The operational licence was handed over to the governor by the Executive Secretary of the commission, Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, at the commission’s headquarters in Abuja on Thursday, April 19, 2019. The licence permits the university to take off without further delay.

“The university is one of the new six universities built by the Rescue Mission Government in the state, led by Governor Rochas Okorocha. The administration has, in addition to these new universities, also built four new polytechnics and two new colleges of education.”

The governor added that with the arrangements and facilities on the ground for the operation of the new tertiary institutions, there would not be any problem for the successive governments in the state to operate the institutions.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]