Igbinedion varsity inaugurates centre for security studies
Adekunle Peter, Benin

The Igbinedion University has established a Centre for Contemporary Security Affairs on its main campus in Okada, Edo State, to provide workable and pragmatic solutions to global security challenges.

The centre, which the institution described as the first of its kind in Sub-Sahara Africa, was named after Nigeria’s Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, who delivered the maiden public lecture titled, ‘Military and democratic consolidation in Nigeria: Appraisal of Nigerian Army counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency operations.’

The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Lawrence Ezemonye, said the establishment of the Buratai Centre for Contemporary Security Affairs was in line with the institution’s commitment to teaching, research and community relations.

Ezemonye said the centre would “present veritable possibilities as it focuses on security challenges that are contemporary in nature. It will frequently bring together the academia and the military to compare notes, challenge the status quo in an intellectually-stimulating discourse on security and allied contemporary issues.”

He added, “In addition to knowledge production in the identified areas, the Buratai Centre shall organise short courses for security practitioners and the general public.”

He stated that the centre would conduct research in terrorism and organised crimes, technology and security, arms proliferation, global risk and resilience immigration and security.

Other areas, according to Ezemonye, will be intelligence and terrorism, biological terrorism, security and law, human security, cyber vulnerability and cyber security, as well as environment and security.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]