‘Public schools need holistic intervention’
Dayo Ojerinde

The Head of Oando Foundation, Adekanla Adegoke, has said that government-owned primary and secondary schools in the country will require eight years of holistic intervention, at least, to attain the level and standard expected of truly modern schools .

She made this known recently at the 2019 Women in Development Summit, themed, ‘Women-led business as a tool for social change and nation building’ held in Victoria Island, Lagos.

At the summit hosted by Ideation Hub Africa, Adegoke, who handled a masterclass session on the topic ‘Strategic Alliances: Activating Partnerships between Non-profits and Businesses,’ said, “We learnt from international development agencies already working in the Nigerian education space that public schools need at least eight years of holistic intervention to see significant results. This formed the premise upon which Oando Foundation’s school adoption model was designed.

“Research has shown that it takes eight years to move a school from zero to 80 per cent and you cannot achieve 100 per cent if the teachers themselves do not have the requisite skills or competencies to promote quality teaching and learning experiences. So, we get into a school, improve the infrastructure, train the teachers, empower the school-based management committee, and keep improving the school, as well as the education management support system at the state and local government levels.”

She added that the foundation often leveraged strategic partnerships with various local and international organisations to bring in more resources to the schools. “The foundation is also utilising its proof of concept to advocate for project replication with various state governments. We do this because to run effective non-profits, structure, networking and providing evidence are all important.”

Adegoke also encouraged the participants, who were mostly young women in the development sector, to operate well-structured non-profit organisations in order to attract productive and sustainable partnership in the interest of their core beneficiaries.

The keynote speaker at the summit, Mrs Hansatu Adegbite, described effective communication as crucial to non-governmental organisations getting the kind of funding they needed to run. She also disclosed that there was an abundance of financial resources in the private sector that could be spent on developmental issues if the right message got to them

“It is important to think of adopting a sustainable funding model that would work. To get that (financial) resource, you must solve a problem. There are two models you can adopt, one is to develop a for-profit business to finance social problems or identify funding models that work for a non-profit,” Adegbite said.

The founder of Ideation Hub, Mrs Debola Deji-Kurunmi, said the programme was organised to expose entrepreneurs and those in the development sector to build their capacity to deliver impact. “We want to grow the capacity of development practitioners, young corporate leaders, social entrepreneurs to deliver impact; to succeed in their work. We also want to see entrepreneurs partner with NGOs so that they can provide support and funding to solve problems they are passionate about,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]