NLA insists on reading, plastic waste management for pupils
Tare Youdeowei

The Lagos State Chapter of the Nigerian Library Association has marked the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation’s World Book and Copyright day themed ‘Reading my right pathway to learning plastic waste management’.

The event, which was held at the Federal Neuro Psychiatric Hospital, Yaba, Lagos, on Tuesday, saw pupils from Methodist Girls High School, Yaba; International School, University of Lagos and Eletu Odibo Senior High School, advised on the importance of purposeful reading and proper waste management.

Telling the pupils that reading is a life changing framework and a necessary skill to possess in order to excel, was the Chairman on the occasion, Dr Tayewo Adebowale, who said, “There is no way to learn without reading. When you read novels it improves your vocabulary. Reading is in every facet of life, as such reading is power. Find time to read, Google is not everything and reading two weeks to your examination is not the way to succeed as a pupil.

“Know that reading makes you current, it refines your attitude, gives creative imagination, shapes your life and if you learn to read fast, it speeds up your ability to understand and process information. Reading is a catalyst for growth as such limit your time on social media.”

On having better grades, Adebowale urged the pupils to draw up a reading timetable and jot while reading textbooks.

The Chairman of the chapter, Dr Onaade Ojo, said the association hoped to set up waste management clubs in schools to engender the youths to taking care of the environment.

“The event is to promote reading, it is about publishing and the right of authors. This day is for recognising authors, publishers and readers. At the end of this programme, attending schools would set up waste management clubs because waste management and reading are crucial to our survival on this planet.

“We want to create awareness in youths and adolescents about waste management so that they too can perfect the environment. The government cannot do everything, it starts with each child to change the environment.”

The event saw invited schools give presentations on the topic, particularly on recycling plastic waste.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]