‘Vocational, entrepreneurial education integral to 6-3-3-4 framework’
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

The Executive Vice-Chairman of the Ibadan School of Government and Public Policy, Prof. Tunji Olaopa, has said that vocational and entrepreneurial education are integral to the conception of the 6-3-3-4 framework to empower youths.

Olaopa stated this recently in his keynote address to the 23 graduating students of Royal Spices Academy, a school of catering and hospitality management.

He said, “Vocational and entrepreneurial education are integral to the conception of the 6-3-3-4 framework to empower youths. More significantly, we are witnessing a failure in policy and implementation that has not made an impact the way we conceived education and the capacities it confers on the youths and the nation.

“This failure of the policy can be attributed to a fundamental absence of a cultural adjustment programme and a loss of value orientation that has failed to direct the educational philosophy for performance and productivity.

“The Nigerian business and entrepreneurial space is an incredibly creative and rugged one filled with all types of innovative and smart ideas, as such there are a significant number of youths making waves in e-commerce, real estate, agri-business, fast-moving consumer goods, food processing, waste management, to mention a few,” Olaopa said.

The retired federal permanent secretary added that there was the need for a large dose of enlarged consciousness and self-education. “What do all these add up to for the aspiring youth, especially those who are still in the universities and the vocational institutes? There are several things that are not yet in place for the government to handle the issue of capacity utilisation and the human capital development required to transform the socioeconomic situation undermining the vocational and entrepreneurial capacities of the youth.”

The Rector and Chief Executive Officer of the academy, Dr Olufunmi Adegbile, stated that the academy was set up to change the face of providing food and food-related services, as well as contributing its quota to the economy by training youths to become professionals in the culinary arts.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]