Research reveals ‘quiet corruption’ in Lagos schools
Tare Youdeowei

A Non-Governmental Organisation, Trust Africa, through its Human Development Initiatives recently carried out a research on the prevalence, forms and patterns of what it described as ‘quiet corruption’ in government-owned educational institutions in Lagos State and identified how the vice can be eliminated from public schools in the state.

The research, which was carried out in December 2018, split Lagos into three senatorial districts and carried out a household questionnaire survey on a random sample of 4,650 respondents that targeted pupils in primary schools (660), pupils in secondary schools (960) and parents or household heads (1,620). Students of tertiary education institutions (960), lecturers and teachers across the three levels (450) were also randomly selected.

The findings were made known to our correspondent recently by the Executive Director of HDI, Mrs Olufunso Owasanoye, who stated that the results justified the need to create awareness among relevant stakeholders on the prevalence of corrupt practices in public schools as a means of enhancing quality education and fostering change for national development.

Owasanoye said, “Specific findings showed that absenteeism (24.7 per cent), extortion (21.6 per cent), abuse (21.3 per cent) and request for money from parents featured as the most commonly practised form of quiet corruption by primary school teachers.

“The pattern was different for secondary schools where absenteeism (38.4 per cent), abuse (34.6 per cent), favouritism (27.5 per cent) and compulsory purchase of study materials (24.1 per cent) sequentially ranked as the most commonly practised types of quiet corruption.

“While the perception of quiet corruption among parents was compared between teachers and pupils in the survey, paying for extra lesson was the most common experience of parents with children in primary (36.1 per cent) and secondary (41.7 per cent) schools. Extra lessons have become an integral part of teaching activities in many schools. Some 23.7 per cent and 23.1 per cent of parents in primary and secondary schools respectively reported that this impacted them negatively.

“We also asked parents to select from a list of options, one option that most described their experience of quiet corruption. Further results showed that paying for extra lesson ranked first at primary (45.1 per cent) and secondary (41.4 per cent) levels while paying a high cost for study materials was the next for parents in primary schools (24.5 per cent) and secondary schools (20.2 per cent). Financial inducement of teachers was also reported by parents (22.7 per cent) at both levels.”

The educationist added that 38.1 per cent of pupils in primary schools claimed that their parents had been involved in the financial inducement of their teachers on their behalf. However, only 3.9 per cent of secondary school pupils made the same claim.

The research findings also revealed a lack of monitoring and supervision accounted for 29.9 per cent of the factors influencing quiet corruption, as reported by secondary school respondents. At the two levels, very few mentioned a lack of adequate remuneration for secondary school teachers, which was pegged at 8.9 per cent).

On the measures for eliminating quiet corruption, Owasanoye said the result showed that 48.5 per cent of secondary school pupils reported that there were measures for eliminating quiet corruption in their schools, while 22.5 per cent of respondents admitted that there were no measures in place to end the menace. In primary schools, less than 40 per cent of pupils said their schools had mechanisms for dealing with quiet corruption.

The psychosocial counsellor added, “In all schools and at all levels, existing measures for curbing quiet corruption are weak and do not adequately address the problem. Qualitative findings, combined with desk review, showed that the Lagos State Ministry of Education had put in place some measures for monitoring compliance with stipulated rules and regulations. One of such measures was the creation of the Office of Education Quality Assurance in 2009 as a response to the initiative by the Federal Government.

“The office has consistently published the State of Education Report annually using some key performance indicators such as achievement and standards, learners’ personal skills and their participation, the quality of teaching and learning, the quality of curriculum and other activities, the quality of learning environment, effectiveness of leadership and management among others.

“However, within the framework for analysing quiet corruption, these KPIs would not be adequate for measuring issues related to absenteeism, extortion, sexual exploitation or sexual harassment, nepotism, favouritism, and compulsory sale of study materials.”

Based on the findings from the study, the researcher recommended that the public should be made aware of the menace, parents-teachers associations should be repositioned and effective disciplinary measures, among others, should be implemented.

She said, “Quiet corruption is a pervasive practice in public education institutions in Lagos State. It takes diverse forms; sometimes within a demand and supply framework and many times within the power structure backed by culture or bureaucracy or both. While the state government has made efforts to supervise and regulate the quality of education in the state, gaps still exist. Owing to these weaknesses, a number of quiet corruption cases slip through without being noticed, even when there are sanctions in place to deal with erring teachers.

“However, we recommend bringing awareness to teachers, pupils and parents by carrying out advocacy campaigns that will expose education officials, head teachers and other stakeholders in the sector to the ills and consequences of quiet corruption. It will also pressure the government to be responsive and accountable in the delivery of quality education services.

“Currently, the framework used in monitoring quality in public schools does not include key indicators on quiet corruption, as such indicators that are context-specific, should be included in the framework.

“All education institutions do not have any mechanism for conducting independent assessment of teachers, apart from the self-assessment tools. Pupils should be made to assess their teachers on a regular basis and such assessment should be part of the requirement for career advancement and other benefits. Tools such as teachers’ scorecards and social audit could empower parents and pupils when rating the quality of services, as well as when tracking issues bordering on quiet corruption in the education sector.

“Agencies, such as the Nigerian Civil Defence Corps, the parent-teacher associations, civil society organisations, among others, should be involved in monitoring issues related to quiet corruption in our public education institutions. This will result in improved service delivery and accountability in the education sector.”

Owasanoye also said that quiet corruption could be eradicated through adequate budgetary allocation and funding, prioritisation of teachers’ remuneration, setting up a feedback mechanism, establishing a code of ethics for teachers, promoting enforcement strategies and strict disciplinary measures.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]