There’s need for improvement in education, environment – Alakija
Tare Youdeowei

Artist, educator and children’s book author, Polly Alakija, has said this year’s Five Cowries Arts Education Initiative titled, ‘My Story of Water,’ is targeted at enhancing teaching skills in Lagos State for positive educational and environmental outcomes.

Alakija, who spoke during the presentation of the initiative last Wednesday at the Lagos State Waterways Authority Terminal in Falomo, said the initiative was aimed at fusing reading, writing and arithmetic with critical thinking, communication and creativity in children.

She said, “In Lagos State alone, approximately 25 per cent of children drop out at primary level and 60 per cent do not complete secondary education. Ensuring that all children have access to education has the potential to transform lives and is a vital component in building human capacity that is central to the state and the country’s economic development.

“Arts literacy has been proven to help children to develop design thinking, creativity and critical thinking. It also acts as a strong mechanism for improving attendance rates, as interactive and visual teaching methods increase children’s engagement level.

“Five Cowries aims to offer an inclusive route to education that makes learning fun and improves school attendance, as well as results by enhancing the quality and capacity of arts education and teaching skills.”

Giving a breakdown of what the initiative had in store for pupils, Alakija added, “In addition to building teacher capacity, the initiative, through its 2019 theme would encourage the pupils to tell visual stories about water and sustainability in their environment. The initiative would also select 30 classes of pupils to produce artwork that would give 1,800 participating pupils perspective on the importance of water in their daily lives.

“The first phase of 2019 project will commence this month by working with the children to design artworks that represent their experiences with water. These artworks will be showcased at SIWI World Water Week in Stockholm in August; the Totally Thames Festival in London in September and an exhibition at the Five Cowries Lagos Ferry Terminal in October. These activities will mark the beginning of the initiative’s four-year programme with LASWA.”

One of the partners of the initiative is Teach for Nigeria, whose Chairman, Gbenga Oyebode, said, “Teach for Nigeria focuses on education and leadership; our aim is to close the gaps in education. We understand the impact of our activities on beneficiaries’ lives and are always on the look-out for new approaches for sustainable impact, which is why this partnership with Five Cowries Initiative is important.”

Also, the Managing Director, Lagos State Waterways Authority, Oluwadamilola Emmanuel, said, “This partnership with Five Cowries will open the minds of young and old to the significance and the need for maintenance of our waterways. The children’s artwork will be brought into our space and showcased year-round art exhibitions and installations at Falomo and Ikorodu Ferry Terminal, Falomo Bridge and Eko Bridge underpass, as well as Elegbata Jetty. They will be open for people to see.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]