Give more funds to education, Don urges FG
Hindi Livinus, Yola

A professor of Education Management at the Modibbo Adama University of Technology, Yola, Adamawa State, Martins Fabunmi, has called on the Federal Government to allocate more funds to education.

Fabunmi made the call while delivering the 24th inaugural lecture of the university titled, “Management in Education: The Integrity Question,” on Thursday, where he faulted the government’s allocation of seven per cent of the nation’s budget for education.

He asked the government to give education more attention and enhance quality in the sector.

“The low integrity of education in Nigeria is the direct result of poor funding of education which has continuously made it difficult for educational institutions to meet global standard. There is a correlation between investment in education and national development, but the funding of educational institutions in the country have continued to lag behind when compared to investments in education by western countries and Ghana our neighbour,” Fabunmi said.

He also called for the review of the Education Act to compel the allocation of adequate funds to the sector.

“There are several things which call to question the integrity of the nation’s educational system such as the inadequate allocation of funds to the educational sector by the executive arms in their annual budgets.

He said, “While substantial parts of these allocations go to the administration instead of actual teaching and learning, most school administrators also end up squandering a substantial percentage of the allocations through corruption. The teachers lack the capacity to teach and most products of educational institutions seem to be certificated illiterates.

“At the university level, the situation is not different because the ills of our larger society are creeping into our universities. If you are a manager in the education sector and you pervert justice or condone injustice, where lies your integrity? ”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]