‘Revolutionise entrepreneurship to end unemployment’
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The founder of Ajayi Polytechnic in Ikere Ekiti, Dr Busayo Ajayi, has harped on the need for a revolution in the entrepreneurship education to tackle the growing rate of unemployment in the country.

Ajayi, who blamed the high unemployment rate on the production of only job-seeking graduates, said a situation where 70 per cent of polytechnic graduates could not set up sustainable businesses was a failure of the education system.

Ajayi spoke in Ikere Ekiti, Ekiti State on Friday during the second matriculation of the institution.

He said, “Education is beyond awarding certificate. Sound and right education is the sure foundation for building a great nation. The vision of Ajayi Polytechnic is born out of the passion to contribute to solving the unemployment problem. The rate of unemployment in Nigeria is pathetic.

“We need a revolution in entrepreneurship education in our institutions of higher learning to solve this fundamental problem. The philosophy behind polytechnic education in Nigeria should be about empowering students to be self-reliant after their tertiary education.”

The rector of the polytechnic, Prof. Michael Alonge, said the institution was ready to support students to reach their goals, as he disclosed that Ajayi Crowther University in Oyo State had approved affiliation with the polytechnic to run degree programmes.

Alonge said, “Ajayi Polytechnic is coming up with innovative entrepreneurship programmes to make students independent and employers of labour. The focus of the polytechnic is to develop human capital.”

At the ceremony attended by stakeholders in the education sector, heads of security agencies and the Ogoga of Ikere Ekiti, Oba Samuel Alagbado, alongside the Ogoga-in-council, the rector enjoined the students to take their studies seriously and shun anti-social behaviour.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]