Provost hails FG as FCE Yola matriculates 470 students
Hindi Livinus, Yola

The Provost of the Federal College of Education, Yola, Prof. Abdulmumin Sa’ad, has commended the Federal Government for awarding contracts through the Ecological Funds for the construction of four major roads and drainage channels to alleviate the problem of flooding within the college.

Sa’ad said this at the fifth matriculation ceremony of the college where 470 students were matriculated into various degree programmes for the 2018/2019 academic year.

He added that since the commencement of the college’s degree programmes, a lot of achievement and impressive performance had been recorded, as the institution had graduated the first set of degree students from the college.

“A total of 164 degree students graduated and the number comprises one first class in core sciences, 89 second class upper, 73 second class lower and one-third class. The college also secured full accreditation for seven out of nine degree programmes.

“The aim is to make the college an attractive centre of learning and transform it to a greater height as we will go the extra mile in providing a befitting and conducive environment for teaching and learning in the college,” Sa’ad said.

The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Maiduguri, Prof. Abubakar Njobdi, commended the management of FCE Yola for its impressive infrastructure as he urged the students to take their studies seriously and avoid anything that could disrupt their future.

“There is no difference between you and those doing their degree programmes in the university’s main campus, or other affiliated institutions because UNIMAID is where men are made and you have made a wise choice in choosing the college.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]