School feeding a waste of government resources — Don
Hindi Livinus, Yola

A professor of Education Management at the Modibbo Adama University of Technology in Yola, Adamawa State, Martins Fabunmi, has faulted the Federal Government’s school feeding programme, describing it as a waste of government’s resources and another avenue to enrich party loyalists.

Fabunmi, stated this on Thursday while delivering the 24th Inaugural lecture of the university titled, ‘Management in Education: The Integrity Question.’

He said the government’s approach through initiatives like the school feeding programme were meant to improve access to education and curb the phenomenon of out of school children issue but “it had become an avenue for patronage and conduit devised to enrich party loyalist.”

He added that the government got the concept of the school feeding program wrong, as it ought to have been channelled through the parents, as was done in other countries through social welfare schemes that benefited the parents directly.

Fabunmi said, “The government of Nigeria got the issue of funding education wrong. It was wrong for the government to introduce the school feeding programme. It ought to have been channelled through the parents and not through contractors who are party loyalists.

“We have similar schemes in the United Kingdom and the United States of America; they call it social welfare and it is usually through the parents.

“Here, when the government assigns a particular amount, the ministry at the state level will reduce it, at the local level, it will be reduced; the head teacher will take his own portion and what gets to the contractor at the school level is minimal. That is why the children are not well fed.”

The Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Kyari Muhammad, later presented Fabunmi with a plaque in recognition of his contributions to the development of the institution, as well as the training of qualitative educational managers.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]