Government must fix infrastructure, security to end brain drain – Christopher varsity VC
The Vice-Chancellor of Christopher University, Mowe, Ogun State, Prof. Friday Ndubuisi, discusses the issues of brain drain and why private universities need to be granted access to the Tertiary Education Trust Fund, among others, in this interview with JESUSEGUN ALAGBE

Some argue that the private university system in Nigeria is exploitative considering the exorbitant tuition fees students pay. How do you respond to such an argument?

As an insider, I know that it takes a lot to start a university. It is capital intensive. Anyone who says they want to go into university venture to make a profit does not want to offer good education. When you compare the resources you put in to establish a private university and the revenue, you may not be encouraged. The gestation period is long. Plus, in our environment, we generate electricity on our own, as well as water, good roads, security. In other climes, government makes provision for all these. So, when you add up the costs, it makes running a private university to be expensive. When you compare the expenses to the tuition fees charged, you will see that private universities are not charging exorbitant tuition fees.

Let’s draw a comparison: An average private university in the United States charges around $25,000 per session whereas in Nigeria, the tuition fee is only around $2,000 per session. Apart from that, we need to employ quality academic and non-academic staff and we have to pay them well and cater for their welfare. A lot of money is involved; private universities are not exploitative. Perhaps if the government is giving them subventions and endowments and also giving students scholarships, the tuition fees will reduce.

There is a widespread phenomenon of sexual harassment in tertiary institutions in the country. What measures have you put in place in Christopher University to tackle it?

Our lecturers are in loco parentis with our students and we have told them that their relationship with the students must be formal. They should be there to build the students because once you bring emotions to play, the students will not have confidence in the system again. We don’t tolerate sexual harassment and everybody is aware of this.

Let’s talk about brain drain in Nigeria. Do you have fears that in the nearest future, the country may not have capable hands to develop the next generation?

Human capital is the foundation of a nation’s development and the people want to be treated well. Our environment is hostile to research and development, so the government needs to do a lot in retaining our best brains. A lot of good hands are moving out of the country and making a lot of impacts out there. The reason is quite simple; they don’t have the infrastructure to develop their potential here, which can help develop our economy. The fears are there and the government must do a lot to prevent it.

For instance, to travel from Lagos to Ibadan can take you almost five hours. Imagine that you are going to Ibadan to present a lecture as an academic, by the time you get there, you are already exhausted. Look at the security situation in the country; these are things the government should look into. Until people are comfortable, they will keep leaving.

You once mentioned that private universities are the key to the Nigerian education system…

Yes. If you look at it, the government cannot do it all alone. Education is a big industry and it is for the development of the people and the country. The more educated people a society has, the better it will become. Unfortunately, the government doesn’t have all the resources to run the educational system. If you think about it, there are some initiatives that come from individuals that cannot come from the government; there are programmes individuals can implement, which the government cannot. This is why the partnership with the private sector is required.

Truth be told, the private sector is more pragmatic in approach to issues than the government. Be that as it may, there should be cooperation between the government and private universities. The government should still extend help to the private university system because people who are trained in private universities are also Nigerians and when they graduate, they would work to contribute their quota to the country’s economy. Forming a good society requires people who are sufficiently sophisticated and knowledgeable, which the private university system offers.

So, you are a proponent of the government giving subventions to private universities?

Yes. For example, the Tertiary Education Trust Fund should be extended to private universities. Grants should be awarded to academics in the private universities to carry out researches because the students and lecturers in private universities are also from Nigeria. Ironically, the money in TETFund is sourced from the private sector, so why are private universities being denied access to it? It’s not right.

Christopher University is relatively new, what was the motivation for founding it?

We were registered in 2015, licensed in the same year and started academic activities in 2016. We have been in operation for three academic sessions. Right now, we have three faculties, namely the School of Humanities, School of Business Studies and School of Social Sciences.

The long-term goal is to be a university of the first choice among Nigerians, a university that would raise leaders that the society has confidence in. We want to raise products that are virtuous. If we ask ourselves, what is the bane of our society today? The answer is bad leadership. Hence, we want to raise leaders who are not only skilled, but morally conscious.

The founder of the university was once in the corporate world, but he is passionate about education and he wants to play a big role. He believes there should be a merger between theory and practice. So the university was founded to train the youth to not only be job seekers but job creators.

We are in a world where some youths cannot utilise their potential and the university is interested in fixing this. What matters in the education system now is practice, not theory. Essentially, our vision is to partner the private sector so that we will be able to match theory with practice.

To what extent have you then incorporated theory with practice among your students?

We have been seeking partnership with the private sector in this regard. For instance, we are looking at a situation whereby an editor in PUNCH Newspapers could come and teach our students in the Department of Mass Communication; likewise, we want a situation whereby entrepreneurs could come and interact with our students so that they can learn the practical aspect of their studies.

An average academic is interested in books and theories, but when we bring people from the corporate world, things are different. We are not just imagining this happening, we have invited quite a number of organisations to come and interact with our students. For example, we have had a consultant from Google Nigeria who came to interact with the students. In essence, we are in for functional education which doesn’t end in the classroom.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]