Redeemer’s varsity gets DVC, bags Hugo African Prize
The Governing Council of the Redeemer’s University in Ede, Osun State, has appointed Prof. Adebola Adebileje as the substantive Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the institution.

The university made this known in a statement on Monday.

Until her appointment, Adebileje, who obtained her PhD in English Language Education in 2002, was the Dean of the university’s College of Humanities.

The statement said Adebileje, who had become the first female DVC of the institution, joined the university in 2005 and rose to become a full professor in 2016. She was once the Coordinator, General Studies Programme and acting Director, General Studies Programme.

“She is the first Vice-President, Society for the Study of Names in Nigeria, a Member of the American Association of Applied Linguistics, Linguistic Society of America, American Names Society, Linguistic Association of Nigeria and English Scholars Association of Nigeria, to mention a few,” the statement added.

The school also stated that the Human Genome Organisation had conferred its 2019 HUGO African Prize award on a professor of Molecular Biology, Christian Happi.

Happi is the Director of the World Bank funded African Centre of Excellence for Genomics of Infectious Diseases at RUN.

The statement said the award was in recognition of Happi’s contributions to the field of genomics and infectious diseases, especially in relation to the work done at the university’s ACEGID in averting would-be national disasters and international epidemics.

In 2014 Happi and his team at ACEGID developed and patented the Lassa Fever Rapid Diagnostic Tester and the Ebola Rapid Diagnostic Tester, with the latter being approved by the World Health Organisation and the US Food and Drug Administration.

“He is also a visiting professor to Harvard University who doubles as the Chair, Scientific Advisory Committee, Africa Health Research Organisation in Ghana; and Senior Associate member of the board at the Institute of Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, both in America,” the statement added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]