No fund mismanagement in UI, says VC
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

The University of Ibadan has defended its N18bn budget proposal for 2019 before the National Assembly.

The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Idowu Olayinka, told The PUNCH in an interview on Monday that UI’s management recently appeared before the Senate and House of Representatives’ committees to defend its budget.

Olayinka, also dismissed allegations by a group he called faceless within the university community that alleged that his administration had mismanaged N1.98bn income.

He said, “I read the story, but I felt it was neither here nor there. They talk of N1.98bn as income, the thing is, what did we spend the money on? Barely two weeks ago, we went to the National Assembly; the Senate and the House of Representatives to present our budget. In fact, we presented the performance of the budget for 2018; how much we made and how much we spent, income and expenditure. Then, we presented before the National Assembly, the Senate and House of Representatives, the projected income and expenditure for 2019.

“Let’s say a company had a budget of N100m, it doesn’t translate into anything. You have to look at their expenditure profile. At least, the budget we presented to the National Assembly is about N18bn for 2019. This is a public institution, we expect to make N18bn as income, and the expenditure is about N18bn.

“Every month we pay at least N60m on electricity to the Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company. The Federal Government has 49 per cent shares in the company. So if we spend N60m every month, where do you think the money is coming from in a year?

“That is just one aspect. Then we have to buy diesel, pay our external examiners and fuel official vehicles. There was a rainstorm in the school. Some roofs were blown off. We spent almost N80m to fix the damage done by the storm. We have not yet taken physical possession of the Trenchard Hall since the incident.

“This is a university that has been here for over 72 years, so, when you now talk of N1.98bn, I think it is a joke. The people don’t even pay cash; the money goes directly to the Central Bank of Nigeria. Our accounts are audited.

On what the management was doing to improve the lot of the university, Olayinka said, “We organise workshops and seminars for students and staff on a regular basis.

“Our postgraduate college is producing the highest number of PhDs in the nation’s university system every year. But we are not resting on our oars; there is still a lot of work to do.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]