ABU Zaria gets facilities to improve learning
Tare Youdeowei

The Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Kaduna State, has received air conditioners and televisions from the Nigerian Bottling Company Limited, a gesture that the company said was part of its contribution towards empowering the youth in the country by improving their learning environment.

This was made known by the NBC’s Regional Public Affairs and Communications Manager (North), Mr Aminu Mohammed, who said the donation was a demonstration of the company’s confidence in young Nigerian and support for academic excellence, adding that youth development remained important in the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility framework.

Mohammed, who spoke through the Public Affairs and Communications Director, Ekuma Eze, said, “Over the years, our community investments have evolved from unconnected philanthropic initiatives to long-term programmes aligned to three key strategic priorities, comprising the empowerment of youth and women, the creation of a world without waste and water stewardship. For youths, we are committed to motivating students and young people to unleash their potential. This is at the core of what we believe. We sincerely hope that the items would go a long way in providing a better life and future for the students.”

Also, the Deputy Dean of Student Affairs, ABU, Prof. Mohammed Dabo, lauded the NBC for its support towards enhancing education, saying the items would improve recreation for students on the campus.

He said, “We commend the NBC for supporting our students. We know the items would go a long way to give them a better experience. With this, I am sure our students would be able to relax and enjoy themselves during their leisure period.”

Dabo charged the students to make the best use of the items by ensuring that they were maintained, as he urged other corporate organisations to emulate the NBC.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]