We don’t sell handouts to students — FEPOFA
Tunde Oyekola

The Management of the Federal Polytechnic, Offa, Kwara State, has denied that its student who committed suicide last week did so because of his inability to provide the proceeds from the sale of handouts given to him by a lecturer.

Reacting to a Sunday PUNCH story with headline, ‘Offa Poly student commits suicide over handout proceeds,’ the institution, in a statement signed by its Head of Public Relations and Protocols, Olayinka Iroye, confirmed that one of its students, Ridwan Ajiboye, committed suicide.

He, however, added that it was not because of the proceeds of handouts which he could not remit to his lecturer.

He, however, failed to give the reason for the suicide.

The polytechnic also denied that another student studying Estate Management, Maryam Fasasi, who was said to have attempted suicide by allegedly drinking insecticide, did so because she misplaced N45,000 alleged to be the proceeds from the sale of handouts given to her by another lecturer.

The institution said its academic members of staff were not involved in the sale of handouts to students, adding that the practice had been prohibited by the management.

It said, “The deceased, a National Diploma one student in the Civil Engineering Department, actually took some quantity of a poisonous substance which led to his death days after he was taken to several hospitals for treatment. However, the other angle to the story that the student took poison because he was embarrassed by a lecturer over handout proceeds is unfounded.

“Up till now, the circumstance surrounding the student taking the substance is shrouded in mystery. However, management is investigating the case to get to the root of the matter. The reported case of another attempted suicide by an ND student of Estate Management over handout proceeds has yet to be established.”

“The sale of handouts has been banned for more than two decades in this polytechnic and no lecturer sells handout to students no matter the situation.

“The Management of the Federal Polytechnic Offa, headed by Dr Lateef Olatunji, has eradicated all forms of corruption and malpractices, and machinery has been put in place to check every form of indiscipline by both staff members and students.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]