Navy schools debate dwindling interest in education
Ada Wodu, Calabar

Pupils of the Nigerian Navy Secondary School in Calabar, Cross River State, and Nigerian Navy Secondary School, Borokiri, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, have raised the alarm over dwindling interest in education.

They also backed the use of agriculture to reposition the economy.

The pupils made this known at the annual Intra Command Debate and Quiz Competition of Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral, Ibok Ete-Ibas, on Thursday at the Nigerian Navy Secondary School, Calabar, where they debated the topics such as, ‘Misplaced Societal Values are Responsible for Students’ Dwindling Interest in Education’ and ‘Agriculture, a tool for Economic Development in Nigeria, not oil.’

At the event, the Flag Officer Commanding, Eastern Naval Command, Calabar, Rear Admiral David Adeniran, said the competition, which was initiated by the Directorate of Naval Education, was designed to encourage learning, analytical reasoning and promote public speaking among pupils.

Adeniran, who was represented by the Command Staff Officer, Rear Admiral Abraham Adaji, said, “We expect the pupils to exhibit what they have been taught and show their public speaking skills. We must pay keen attention to the issues raised so that irrespective of who wins, we must have learned some lessons that will help us as a nation.”

The Commandant of Navy Secondary School, Calabar, Commander Odufa Kadiri, said, “ In 2018, the school hosted this competition and it was a thing of joy for the school to also host the 2019 edition. We hope that at the end of it, our pupils will be better equipped with the lessons of the debate and it will go a long way to broaden their knowledge and values.’’

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]