Nigerians voted based on sentiment, says don
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

The Secretary of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, Prof. Peter Olapegba, has said Nigerians are partly responsible for the state of affairs in the nation, which he said was caused by the electorate voting based on sentiment rather than objective facts.

Olapegba, who is the Dean of the Faculty of the Social Sciences at the University of Ibadan, Oyo State, said this while delivering the 447th inaugural lecture of the institution titled, ‘That I May Know.’

He also said the country and its citizens had been victims of ‘serial rape’ by the political class since independence.

According to the professor of psychology, the consequences of the serial rape has been mindless looting which created abject poverty, massive unemployment, under-funding of education, insurgency and terrorism.

The ASUU scribe noted that the worrisome dimension of the rape of the nation by the political class was the rape of the mind. This, he said, had made the victims of economic rape fight one another as they defended their oppressors.

Olapegba said, “Nigeria as a country has introduced a new dimension into the rape literature with the sustained and shameless rape of the nation by the political class since independence. The political class has turned itself into a serial rapist taking turns to rape a helpless nation through mindless looting and ‘fantastic’ corruption; the nation is bleeding yet the depraved rapist does not stop.

“The consequences of this rape are staring us in the face; abject poverty, decayed infrastructure, abysmal underdevelopment, massive unemployment, chronic underfunding of education at all levels, insurgency and terrorism.

“But, particularly worrisome is the new dimension of the rape in our polity. The political class is not yet done with the economic rape of the nation but has started raping our minds and they are succeeding in doing this. Those who bear the brunt of the rape have also turned into supporters of the rapist fighting one another in support of their oppressors. This pathetic tendency, unfortunately, has crept into the academia as those that should know are at daggers drawn ‘Atikulating’ corruption and ‘Buharifying’ impunity. How and when did we get to this level?”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]