2019 UTME: Candidates urge JAMB to upgrade computers for calculations
Some candidates in the ongoing Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations have called for the upgrade of the computer systems to provide mathematical calculations for the examination.

A cross-section of the candidates made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria on Friday, during the 2019 UTME Computer-Based Test in Umuahia.

The candidates, who wrote Mathematics and other science subjects, regretted that the computer did not have scientific calculator.

According to them, since candidates were not allowed to carry calculator and other writing materials into the examination hall, it was difficult for them to solve some problems.

Jennifer Onyeka, a candidate of Computer Science, said that although she was proficient in the use of computer, yet “the computer calculator is not scientific.”

READ ALSO: Tottenham’s Alli should face Manchester City, doubt for Huddersfield

Onyeka said: “It is an elementary calculator and cannot be used to solve the kind of questions we had in the exam yet we were not allowed to use biro and other writing materials.

“It became difficult to do calculations involving Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry.”

Also, David Uruakpa, a Banking and Finance candidate, who sat for Mathematics, also complained that he could not solve some of the Mathematics calculations with the in-built calculator.

He said that because there was neither paper nor space to solve the questions, he resorted to guesswork in some cases.

Christian Nzubechi, who intended to study Business Administration, said that he encountered challenges in Mathematics because there were no tools to work with.

Nzubechi said: “I really commend JAMB for this CBT method.

“It is better than the former paperwork, but it should consider candidates doing calculations, by installing an application that will assist them.”

Mr Lawrence Ezeigbo, a CBT coordinator for Clems Business Systems Ltd., Umuahia, advised candidates to endeavour to acquire adequate computer skills before entering for UTME.

Ezeigbo, whose centre is accredited for the examination in the state, decried the poor computer literacy level of most candidates.

He said that many candidates lacked the technical skill to write the examination.

He said: “My technical staff have been going around, assisting those of them that have a technical challenge.

“I advise that these candidates should undertake training on how to use computers to write the examination.”

He commended JAMB for providing adequate facilities needed for the examination.

NAN reports that there was a visible presence of security operatives in most of the centres visited in Umuahia.

(NAN)