World Bank encouraging Africa’s education inequality —Oxfam
Tare Youdeowei

Oxfam, a confederation of 20 independent charitable organisations that focus on the alleviation of global poverty, has accused the World Bank of steadily increasing its support for privatised education in lower-income countries despite mounting evidence that the approach was keeping poor children out of school — especially girls — and has not improved education quality.

The organisation made this known in a new report titled, ‘False Promises,’ where it urged the bank to “immediately stop promoting Public-Private-Partnerships that expand private education.”

In the report, released ahead of this year’s World Bank and International Monetary Fund’s spring meetings and made available to our correspondent on Thursday, Oxfam analysed the World Bank’s primary and secondary education portfolio between 2013 and 2018 and found out that more than one fifth of the projects included support to governments for private education.

The report read, “From 2014 to 2018, 20 of the 94 projects supported private provision compared to 10 out of 59 between 2008 and 2012. The number of countries hosting these projects also nearly doubled, from seven to 13.

“In addition, a separate 2017 study revealed that the bank’s private sector arm, the International Finance Corporation, has quadrupled its funding to for profit-private schools since 2006.

“The bank is also actively advising governments to invest in Private-Public-Partnership via its Systems Approach for Better Education Results program, telling countries to provide start-up funding and public land for private schools, reduce regulations for-profit schooling.”

According to Oxfam International’s Head of Washington DC office, Nadia Daar, in Uganda and Kenya, commercial schools have been accused of refusing to comply with minimum government education standards.

“In the meantime, low-income countries are spending under half of the UNESCO-recommended minimum of $197 per student, that is needed to provide decent primary education. We are extremely concerned about the bank pushing privatised education as the solution to improving education outcomes for all because it simply is not achieving that.”

However, the author of the report and Oxfam’s Senior Public Services Advisor, Katie Bous, said the World Bank, as the biggest external funder in the world for education, had rallied the importance of investing in health and education through its human capital project but needed to use its influential platform to champion a major investment in universal, quality, free public education.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]