50 pupils selected for Sun-Basorun scholarship
Tare Youdeowei

The first batch of beneficiaries of the maiden Adegbenga Sun-Basorun Scholarship for indigent secondary school pupils in Ibadan, Oyo State, has emerged.

The scholarship, which was instituted in memory of the founder of FoodCo Nigeria Limited, would cover tuition from Junior Secondary School two to Senior Secondary School three for 50 pupils who emerged after sitting for a qualifying examination in December.

At the presentation of the beneficiaries in Ibadan, the Executive Director of FoodCo Nigeria Limited, Ade Sun-Basorun, said the scholarship would eventually extend to 1,000 pupils as it was aimed at reducing out of school children in the state.

“The Adegbenga Sun-Basorun Scholarship was thrown open to indigent pupils from secondary schools located around the eight FoodCo outlets in Ibadan. After a thorough examination and screening process, we are pleased to announce the first set of 50 pupils selected for the award.

“This project is dear to us because it offers a pathway for bright young minds to actualise their academic desires and make something positive of their lives, thereby, immortalising the ideals of our founding chairman,” Sun-Basorun said.

An official of the Universal Basic Education Commission, Olanike Adam, lauded the company for the initiative, noting that it was a part of the commission’s charge that education should be the responsibility of all.

The representative of the Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board, Ngozi Akinde, called on other corporate bodies to emulate the company, as she advised parents and participating schools to ensure that the pupils maximize the opportunity that the scholarship provided.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]