Alumni seeks continuity of school governing boards
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

The alumni association of Our Lady of Apostle Secondary School in Apata, Ibadan has said school governing boards put in place to run the affairs of public secondary schools in Oyo State by the outgoing administration should be continued by the incoming one.

The association made this known on Thursday through its National President, Mrs Valentina Solarin, during a donation of funds to enable some indigent pupils pay their fees for the National Examinations Council’s Senior School Certificate Examination.

Solarin, was represented by the second National Vice President of the body, Mrs Modupeola Sodeinde; the National Financial Secretary, Ms Mary Woods; the National Publicity Secretary, Mrs Bose Oyewole; and Ms Christy Akinniyi.

She said, “As mothers, we are touched about the plight of our educational system today. When we started this project through one of us, the wife of the incumbent governor, Florence Ajimobi, who was one of the pupils, we were able to bring in the Education Trust Fund to the school. The ETF has taken over the project of this school. So, the government is doing its bit, and I believe that the incoming government will emulate what the Ajimobis have done.

“They have the school governing board, of which one of us is a representative, and what we want to do is to bring back the glory that this school had about 60 years ago. The morals and the basics we enjoyed at the time will be restored.

“A few of us were in this school together about 60 years ago. We just felt that we should give back to our school because God has given us so much that we have to be grateful. God has been using us old pupils to make an impact on this school. You can see it in the renovation of the school,” Solarin said.

“Also, we felt that the exam is one of the yardsticks to measure the success of the children, that is why we presented a token to the school for 20 pupils. We believe that our coming together is the beginning of good things for the school and even for our own lives,” Solarin said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]