Ekiti pupils get new school uniforms
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Worldsmith Life Builders’ Foundation, a non-government organisation, has donated school uniforms to pupils from 31 primary schools in Ikere-Ekiti, Ekiti State.

The Executive Director of the foundation, Mrs Olukemi Akinleye, said the foundation, under its ‘Kit the Kids’ initiative planned to kit 500 pupils in public primary schools in the state in the first phase.

Akinleye, who spoke in Ikere Ekiti on Wednesday while donating the uniforms, said, “This has become expedient because of the glaring inability of some parents to meet up with the the demands of their children due to the economic situation of the country.

“For us, the main motivation is passion. The foundation’s trustees have a passion for the youth, for the wellbeing of the underprivileged and for the children who are the future of the country.”

The Permanent Secretary of the state Universal Basic Education Board, Dr Folakemi Oladimeji, commend the foundation for putting smiles on the faces of those in need.

Oladimeji, who was represented by the Director, Academic Services of the board, Mrs Christiana Bamikole, said, “It is at times like this that you know those who are passionate about meeting the needs of the underprivileged. What the foundation has done shows that its efforts are based on passion and commitment to the plight of the downtrodden.”

A total of 20 school uniforms were given to pupils of St Mark’s Primary School, Afao, while 11 uniforms were given to pupils of All Saints Anglican Nursery and Primary School, Odo-Oja, both in Ikere-Ekiti.

The head teachers whose pupils benefitted from the initiative, Mrs Kemi Adewumi and Mrs Ayo Ariyo, lauded the foundation for the gesture as they asked for further intervention in other areas where the schools need assistance.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]