School boosts reading culture among pupils
Sunday Aborisade, Abuja

The Olumawu Basic Education School in Wuse 2, Abuja, on Saturday organised a ‘Reading Fair Competition’ for primary and secondary schools in the Wuse District of Abuja.

The school made this known in a statement which said Akindulure Oreoluwa of Bext Path Academy came first in the senior secondary category of the competition.

The statement added that Ronke Salau of Raberto School emerged the winner in the junior secondary category with a summary and graphical illustration of Salary for Ever. a book she read at the competition.

The Principal of the school, Dr Felicia Jackson, said the competition was meant to raise a generation of readers whose knowledge would impact positively on the society.

She said the competition was anchored on ‘Reading for Empathy, Achievements and Discovery.’

“The goal of this programme is to cultivate the love for reading in all the pupils at Olumawu School and beyond. This is backed by the conviction that a child who reads becomes more empathetic to other human experiences, performs better academically and discovers innate potential in himself or herself and by extension, adds value to the larger society.

“Reading regularly activates the brain and thinking ability of the readers outside the scope of academically recommended textbooks and makes them to be versatile and functional. Knowledge-wise, it makes writing easier for them since writing flows from informed and not blank minds.”

According to a judge, Mrs Halima Appah, the academic knowledge and creativity displayed by most of the participants showed that the country has an upcoming generation of innovative thinkers who will contribute to the growth and development of the country.

The schools that participated were Redeemer’s Private School, Mektan International, Bext Path Academy, Tender Years School, Lightway Academy, Fountain School, Raberto and Olumawu Basic Education School.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]