FG, others seek industry, academia partnership for varsities’ growth
Tare Youdeowei

The Federal Government and stakeholders in the tertiary education and industry sectors have agreed to upgrade Nigeria’s universities.

They, however, sought a consensus for the academia and industry blueprint towards the revitalisation of the country’s university system.

The blueprint, which would be the outcome of a synergy between the government, academia and industry, was described as critical to reforming tertiary education in the country.

The stakeholders, who adopted the ‘university-industry-government relationship’ model as the core operating framework for setting and delivering the University Education Reform Agenda in the medium term (2019-2023) and the long term (2023-2050), said the blueprint would focus on the need to reposition the education sector to deliver “national outcomes and impact.”

They made this known on Thursday at the Nigerian Economic Summit Group and the National Universities Commission’s academia-industry retreat tagged, ‘Making Higher Education Work for Nigeria,’ held on Victoria Island, Lagos.

The Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Education, Mr Sunday Echono, said the government wanted to enhance human capital, produce problem solvers, wealth creators and graduates who could fit into the industry.

Echono examined the flaws in university output and employment and recommended the use of industry players as teachers to bridge the gap between graduates and the industry.

He said, “There is a universally accepted view that human capital is important. We believe that the university has a critical role to play in national development. The enrolment into universities should be 3.7 to seven per cent of the national population; right now we are barely at one per cent. However, there are those who believe that we should not bother about access because of the high number of unemployed persons, but that is a fallacy.

“There are critical factors every country must look at to determine what works for it. Thus, there is the need to commit to national planning. We have less than 10 per cent of the required number of doctors for our population. In architecture, there are more architects in Berlin than in the whole of Nigeria; why won’t buildings collapse? There is a shortfall of teachers in the country yet there is a huge number of qualified teachers that do not have jobs, we need to address that. It is only when the right policy is in place for people to be optimally utilised that a rising population is useful. We need to address this.

“The synergy between the government, industry and academia is, therefore, important because we want to produce problem solvers, wealth creators and graduates who can fit into the industry.

“There is nothing wrong with people from the industry teaching at the university as part-time teachers to share their wealth of experience. Let us encourage an ecosystem that will allow them to come in as an emergency measure to achieve this goal.

“The barriers that the private sector has are lower than the public sector. Therefore, the public sector needs to find a way to bring down the barriers for development sake,” Echono said.

The Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission, Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, urged universities to justify their existence by carrying out researches that would meet the needs of the society to enable the nation to catch up with the developed countries.

Rasheed said, “The NUC and the NESG signed a MoU in Abuja last year. The NUC signed on behalf of Nigeria’s academia, the NSG signed on behalf of the industry and the Minister for Labour, Dr Chris Ngige, witnessed it on behalf of the Federal Government, completing the tripod necessary for the success of the interaction. We did it to close the gap between the experience of the classroom and experience of the workplace, as well as inviting the government to make the transition from the class to the workplace seamless.

“Universities need to justify their existence to industry and society. We in the academia should be challenged by those in the industry because they know what it means to be in a classroom and outside it. Most of us lecturers remain in the classroom but when we have an understanding with the industry, they can bring a feel of the industry to us and our students so that they understand the challenges of real life outside the school.

“This has become necessary because universities need to imbibe the culture of research and development if they are to be relevant in meeting economic needs. This nexus between the government, industry and academia is necessary if we are to catch up with other developed nations.”

A former member of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Monetary Policy Committee, Dr Adedoyin Salami, said universities’ emphasis on Internally Generated Revenue was affecting quality output.

Salami, who is a Faculty Member at the Lagos Business School, urged tertiary institutions to take advantage of opportunities to improve competency.

“Universities must accept the challenge of being relevant in the society. When opportunities come to improve competency, they should embrace them. Academia must be more open and interactive. The Tertiary Education Trust Fund should move beyond infrastructure to providing funds for content development. Universities’ emphasis on Internally Generated Revenue makes them overpopulate their classes to make money, thus affecting quality output.”

Also, the Executive Secretary, Tertiary Education Trust Fund, Prof. Suleiman Bogoro, said a way to ensure synergy between industry and academia was through researches that addressed issues in the society.

“That is why the research and development section of TETFund has been re-instituted to ensure that researches that solve problems are adequately funded,” Bogoro said.

The Chief Executive Officer, NESG, Laoye Jaiyeola, said the skill gap between school leavers and graduates had become a major cause of youth unemployment as the country’s education system did not provide adequate training for productive work.

He said, “Several attempts have been made in the past to reform the Nigerian university system, but many of these interventions have failed to deliver on their set objectives. Therefore, we seek a future for the country’s university where millions of citizens are equipped with the quality of education to make significant and tangible contributions to the advancement of the Nigerian state. ”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]