Close social gap between pupils – Group
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Coordinator of KidsCon, Mrs Funke Bankole, has urged government at all levels to make policies and programmes that will bridge the gap between the rich and the poor, beginning with private and public primary and secondary schools.

Bankole said the society would be better for it if such opportunities were created for children from both ends of the social strata to meet and interact.

The philanthropist, who spoke in Ado Ekiti on Wednesday during a programme organised by the non-profit organisation for over 700 students of private and public secondary schools in Ekiti State, expressed her delight at the manner the students from various backgrounds related with one another at the event.

Bankole urged government at all levels to design programmes that would allow children from all works of life and diverse backgrounds to meet to play and relate.

The Kidcon boss said she initiated the programme seven years ago in partnership with Maltina Company to create avenues where children from private schools, which were regarded as exclusive for the affluent in the society, blend and interact freely in a friendly environment with children from public schools, which were believed to be for children of the lower class.

According to her, the maiden edition of the programme was held in Lagos in October 2018, while the Ekiti edition was the third following that of Ondo State which held earlier this year.

The Ekiti edition showcased various Ekiti cultural attributes and displays in form of native dresses, playlets, cultural dances, acrobatic displays and drumming contests.

The event also witnessed the distribution of prizes, including handsets, bicycles, caps, vests and notebooks to students and schools that participated in the event.

Bankole lauded the Ewi of Ado-Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adeyemo Adejugbe and his wife, Abosede, and Ekiti State Ministry of Education for their support.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]