Enact laws that’ll make industries fund research –Prof.
Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin

A professor of Materials Science and Engineering at the Kwara State University, AbdulGaniyu Alabi, has called on the Federal Government to enact laws that would make industries patronise Nigerian universities and research centres.

While delivering the fifth inaugural lecture of the university titled, ‘Striving for Global Relevance on the Platform of Minerals, Metals and Materials,’ Alabi said if such laws were enacted, it would make more funds available for research and encourage research centres to seek more knowledge to develop the country.

He also called for the resuscitation of primary iron making facilities at Ajaokuta and Warri to provide quality iron products and move the country into “the much-needed industrialisation era.”

Alabi said, “It is generic that a nation that fails to develop its iron and steel resources would be far from industrialisation. Our steel industries must be revitalised in order for Nigeria to achieve its potential industrially so that we can be reckoned with in the comity of nations.”

Alabi, who is the Provost of the school’s College of Engineering and Technology, reiterated the need for the country to invest heavily in solid minerals and key into the nation’s next major economic source after oil.

The lecturer equally charged the government to enact laws to make mineral prospecting agents in the country add value to the mineral before export.

“More recently, Alabi and Kayode (2019) assessed the quality of rods (imports) used for construction in a cement manufacturing site and concluded they complied with standard. The overall importance of the work is to ensure the safety of operations in construction and manufacturing and to avoid the failure of structures that are rampant in Nigeria.

“The department of MSE must be interdisciplinary to accommodate the physicist, chemist and biologists with strong mathematical backgrounds. The specialists must work together with materials/ metallurgical engineers to grow new materials for the advancement of technology,” Alabi said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]