Yabatech, Canon partner on innovative printing
Tare Youdeowei

The Yaba College of Technology, Lagos, has partnered Canon Central and North Africa to develop students’ talent for careers in the printing industry.

The partnership, which is an extension of Canon’s Miraisha Sustainability Programme to build the capacity and talent of Africans for three years, would involve Canon specialists supporting students in their professional development by conducting print workshops.

This was made known at the inauguration of Canon Printing Academy in YABATECH, during which a Canon 850 series digital imaging machine was donated.

The Managing Director CCNA, Roman Troedthandl, said the programme was aimed at improving the knowledge of digital printing and related technical skills of 80 Nigerian students.

He said, “We want to give new opportunities to students by providing them with innovative tools, practices and modern skills necessary for proactive participation in the economy. The first activity under this partnership will be a specialty training that will last one week and will be conducted by a professional print manager from Canon.

“The theme of this training will be colour management and will alternate between practical and theoretical courses. It will enable students to acquire the knowledge and skills necessary to understand and manage colour parameters in digital documents and printing, thereby allowing them to further improve the quality of printing and offer more qualitative service to their future customers.”

The Rector of YABATECH, Obafemi Omokungbe, said the donation would enable the students to fit well into the industry.

“The college was the first to have a department of printing in Nigeria and today we are the first in West Africa to have this machine. It will expose our students to the latest trend, thereby giving our students seamless transition into the industry.

“The Internally Generated Revenue is essential and since the government cannot cope with demands, we have repositioned the department of printing to generate funds and reduce expenditure. In the 2017/2018 session, the university saved N30m after we did our printings in the department. The department is also open to the public for printing, thus generating revenue in adding to saving cost. We thank Canon and look forward to more partnerships,” Omokungbe said.

The Dean of the School of Arts, Design and Printing, Dr Adeyemi Kunle, said, “It is an opportunity for the students to access enhanced training to develop their skills and interact with professionals who, in addition to a solid knowledge of the sector, have a clear idea of the industry needs in Nigeria.

“Canon, with this donation, has shown clearly that it is a trusted partner in the transformational growth of Africa. By investing in youths, creating opportunities for career development and promotion in the printing industry through innovative solutions, Canon has created a vibrant growth ecosystem in Nigeria and the continent.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]