‘Volunteering, emotional intelligence keys to successful careers’
Tare Youdeowei

The Head of Oando Foundation, Adekanla Adegoke, has advised young female graduates to consider volunteering and employing emotional intelligence to build successful careers as members of staff of companies or as entrepreneurs.

Adegoke made this known last Friday while speaking on the theme, ‘Towards Better Balancing: Promoting Diverse and Inclusive Workplaces,’ at the Women in Successful Careers’ Meet-a-WISCAR series in Ikoyi, Lagos.

While speaking to the over 50 females in attendance, she said, “Ensure that you give your time to volunteer. Ensure that whatever you do at work, you do it from your heart and your work will speak for you. Work hard so much so that your peers and leaders can speak for you, defend you and recommend you in your absence.

“Women need to know that there are steps in life and steps to success. Understand that there is a method to the madness in the workplace. You can also sign up in a structured mentorship programme and learn from a mentor to become who you want to be in the career space. The onus is on us to provide a seat at the table for other women; give them a leg in. When you get up there, even on your way up, take other women with you.”

Adegoke also said women in leadership positions should seek to change policies that do not favour women or men, as well as those that stifle members of staff.

“As leaders, we need to change the policies that have been there forever that do not favour women or men, policies that stifle staff. What we should do, when in a position of leadership, is to look through what we felt made us stifled when we were young career persons and begin to speak up about them to cause a change.”

While speaking to our correspondent, Adegoke added that “emotional intelligence and self-confidence are critical skills for success. Weaving these skills into the teaching processes through the school cycle will support women’s achievement in the career world.

“Companies should be encouraged to create volunteering opportunities as a platform for young ladies to learn skills and experience the workplace before graduation. We should also create a system of mentoring young ladies. They need role models, training and resources so that their education translates to good jobs and good decisions. We can create a system that encourages women to mentor younger girls.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]