Friends deserted me for hawking plantain to pay my fees –Adeniyi
Adeniyi Adeyemisi came tops in the Faculty of Education and the Department of Human Kinetics and Health Education at the Ekiti State University during the 2016/2017 academic session with a Cumulative Grade Point Average of 4.68. The young lady tells TUNDE AJAJA the secret of that success

What have you been doing since you graduated from the university?

Shortly after I graduated, there was strike action in my school and this delayed our mobilisation for the National Youth Service Corps programme. So, to avoid sitting at home, I took up a teaching job in a secondary school where I taught Mathematics. That experience provided me with the opportunity to speak to students on good morals and academic excellence.

I also organised an outreach where I sensitised teenagers on the dangers of premarital sex, drug abuse, the benefits of good morals and academic excellence. But, presently, I’m undergoing the one year mandatory NYSC programme in Edo State.

Also, I belong to Sustainable Development Goals for my Community Development Service group and it has given me the opportunity to talk to people on the benefits of basic things like personal hygiene.

Is Human Kinetics and Health Education the course you had always wanted to study at the university?

I wanted to study Medicine but I took interest in Human Kinetics and Health Education after my encounter with Dr Pat Konwea of the Department of Human Kinetics and Health Education in Ekiti State University. That encounter complemented my passion to see people live healthily and that made the course more attractive to me. I really enjoyed the course because it is very practicable.

For the benefit of students considering the course, what are its job prospects?

The broad range of topics in the course helps to prepare students for diverse job opportunities in the medical field, sales and recreation field, sports and fitness organisations, national sporting bodies, professional sports clubs, pharmaceutical companies, fitness clubs and gyms and educational institutions such as schools, colleges and universities.

In spite of the much emphasis placed on why people should do exercises, why do you think people find it difficult to do them?

I think it is because starting new exercise routine is tough for some people, while some quit along the way especially when their body is yet to get back to shape and they are already experiencing body pain. But, the benefits of exercises are common knowledge and I believe people should take advantage of their numerous benefits. It could be stressful but it’s profitable to the body’s overall well-being.

By virtue of your training, what are the things you think people do that impact negatively on their physical well-being?

There are a number of them but we can place them down to unhealthy eating habits, refusal to do exercises, inadequate rest, drug abuse and taking unbalanced diet etc.

However, one of the courses I took as an undergraduate was Anatomy and Physiology, which exposed me to the amazing functions of the human body. I learnt that no part of the human body works in isolation; they all interact with one another. Thus, people are always advised to be cautious in everything they do because one wrong thing can trigger several negative reactions in the body.

In recent years, securing an admission into the higher institution has seemingly become more difficult. Did you have any delay?

Yes, and there is a little story to that. I grew up to enjoy the finest things of life as my parents could afford to cater adequately for virtually all I needed until they lost their jobs. Shortly after that sad development, things became so difficult that they could not afford to provide for us anymore.

After my secondary education, I had to hawk plantain at Ikorodu bus-stop in Lagos so as to save enough money to further my education. I later resolved to enrol at the Lagos State Polytechnic at Ikorodu, which was nearby. And with that, I knew I would spend lesser amount on daily transportation and would still be able to hawk plantain after school so as to save money for my tuition, feeding, purchase of recommended books, etc. It was tough all through as I had to hawk for the duration of my National Diploma programme and I did that every evening. In fact, what I usually did was to board a bus from school directly to the garage where I would hawk. So at night, I would go home, which meant that I had to read in the night. That was the cycle. But, I’m glad that I could still finish excellently.

Were there times you came across your schoolmates?

Yes, I did and because of that I couldn’t really make friends in school because some of them could not move closer to me. I think they felt it was embarrassing. I remember two of them did it to my face. There was a time I even greeted them and they snubbed me because they saw me selling plantain. It was only one of them that stood by me and even when her mum sent her to buy plantain she would patronise me, we would play together and I would add more for her.

I did that throughout my ND programme and I was able to save some money from that before I proceeded to the university.

How then did you finance your education at EKSU?

I was involved in petty businesses. There were times I helped people to sell things, I had some people who gave me things. My mentor, Dr Pat Konwea, who is currently the Head of the Department, used to give me foodstuffs and money. She would even invite me to her house. There was also one of my church members who used to give me money. That was how I survived.

How tough was it to combine selling things with your academics?

To say it was easy is to say that every undergraduate should finish with a first class but with diligence, consistency and God’s favour, despite having to combine everything, I made it.

I would say the quest for it started when I got to school and I had an encounter with the woman who later became my mentor, Dr Konwea, whose life and career experiences motivated me to aim for excellence. By the grace of God, I started having first class from the first semester. I made a decision to focus on achieving academic excellence through studying, asking the right questions, paying attention to details and associating with the right people, and all of these contributed significantly to the outcome.

Looking at the many things you had to combine as an undergraduate, what was your reading pattern?

I often revised my notes before attending the next lecture and I made sure I read for about three to four hours in the night every day. It wasn’t convenient reading at night especially with the things I was involved in during the day but I knew it was something I had to do and so I gave it my best.

As can be imagined, there were times I denied myself of sleep but I’m glad I have something tangible to show for all the sacrifices.

Were you involved in other school activities or it was only your academics?

I was involved in other school activities. I was the deputy governor of my class all through my years on campus. I was the treasurer of the department; I was the sisters’ coordinator in my fellowship; I was also one of the officials of the school’s students union government marathon organised by the then sports director and I was also involved in outdoor and indoor games, such as badminton etc.

I might not have been the social type but due to my passion for leadership, I attended several leadership conferences organised on and off campus.

What was your happiest moment as an undergraduate?

That would be my convocation day. It was an honour to make first class and I was happy to see that despite the struggles, it all ended well.

Did you win any scholarship or award?

Yes; I won three awards. One was for being the best graduating student in the Faculty of Education, another from the Department of Human Kinetics and Health Education and also one for emerging the best graduating female student in the Faculty of Education. Those awards were very rewarding and exciting.

What are your aspirations?

I look forward to securing a job in a place where they encourage continuous learning, esteem and reward excellence. I intend to obtain Master’s degree in Public Health and have my MBA amidst other certifications.

I also intend to set up a non-governmental organisation that will partner with agencies like the World Health Organisation and the United Nations Children’s Fund where I can contribute to promoting the health and general well-being of people.

How would you have felt if you didn’t make first class despite all your efforts?

I would have appreciated all the efforts I made knowing that I tried and I would have remained positive.

These days, there are first class graduates roaming the streets in search of jobs, do you think that could discourage some students from working towards it?

I think it’s sad that parents labour so hard to send their children to school and then after graduation, they find it difficult to secure a job. It’s more worrisome when such graduates depend on same parents for survival after school. Let’s not even talk about people who sponsored themselves through school and these are people who do not even have anyone to run to afterwards.

So, yes, it certainly cannot be motivating but those who are desirous of it will still go ahead. I should add that any society that wants to encourage academic excellence must also be willing to appreciate and reward excellence.

Beyond reading for three to four hours every day, what were the other things you did differently from others to have an outstanding result?

Deliberately, I wasn’t into a relationship till I graduated because I didn’t want the distraction and I think that helped.

I also made sure I worked hard. I didn’t miss lectures and was always attentive in class. Attending lectures, being attentive in class were basic things I think students should pay attention to. Self-discovery is also important.

Students should discover what works best for them so they don’t copy what would work against them. Students should also embrace discipline, be consistent, diligent especially in studying their notes, doing their assignments and attending lectures.

To achieve anything worthwhile in life, having fulfilled the basic requirements such as discipline and other things, the place of God is crucial. The revolution that brings about having an excellent mindset began when I gave my life to Christ and I received the revelation of His word. So, I am what I am by the grace of God.

What about your parents?

They are fine. Things are no longer rosy but thank God we can still afford three meals per day.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]