Make swimming part of curriculum, parents, teachers urge FG
Tare Youdeowei

On March 20, 2019, it was reported that a 15-year-old schoolboy, Elijah Okiki, had drowned in a river while swimming with 10 other pupils after school.

An eyewitness had said, “The pupil was inexperienced; that might be responsible for his drowning.”

Our correspondent’s research revealed that in the past five years, no fewer than 36 pupils had died by drowning.

The number does not include cases that were not reported by the media and cases that were not reported to the police.

Parents, teachers and experts said these tragic incidents create the need for pupils to be taught practical water safety in schools. They posited that the key to preventing drowning was learning how to swim, adding that swimming should become part of the education curriculum or at least mandatory co-curricular activity.

They also said teaching pupils to swim would translate to having fewer teenagers and adults dying by drowning, as well as better outings during international swimming competitions.

According to Wikipedia, swimming lessons have reduced the risk of drowning by 88 per cent for babies and children up to four years. In 2010, the American Academy of Paediatrics reversed its previous position which had disapproved swimming lessons before age four. The academy said the evidence of deaths by drowning no longer supported an advisory against early swimming lessons.

The online encyclopedia added that largely due to its mandatory swimming instructions, the United Kingdom has the sixth lowest drowning rate in the world.

It states that in England, all schools must provide swimming instruction to children before they finish primary education.

They were taught to swim over a distance of at least 25 metres, as well as how to perform a self-rescue in different water-based situations.

Wikipedia says in Canada and the United States of America, there are a large number of states that have swimming as a part of the curriculum due to their proximity to the coast. They ensured that every pupil, before the age of 10, is able to swim confidently and independently.

The report states further that the government of Alaska in USA even subsidised the cost of the use of pools and swimming lessons, adding that in some areas like San Diego, swimming lessons are available for free in the community. The same goes for Canada; if the primary or secondary school has access to a swimming facility, swimming will be part of the educational curriculum.

A retired teacher, Mrs Timi Douglas, told our correspondent on Tuesday that she was of the opinion that time had come for Nigerian pupils to be taught in how to be safe and possibly save a life while in a body of water.

She said, “Whether or not it is subsidised by the government, swimming is a valuable life skill that cannot be overlooked. The wellbeing of all children should be our number one priority. It is up to the educational system to start being more proactive about water safety.

“In many countries, swimming lessons are provided in local swimming pools; in those run by the local government and private companies. Many schools also include swimming lessons in their physical education curricular, provided either in the schools’ own pools, other schools’ pools or in the nearest public pools.”

Mr Shina Adelaja, who had taught in at least three unity schools, said the government had not made swimming a priority as other countries had.

Adelaja said part of the reason swimming programmes of other countries were successful was that it helped them get medals at the Olympics and other competitions.

“We can start to teach this skill from primary school. It is also a useful skill for those who use water as a means of transport. A majority of us in Nigeria cannot swim, except maybe people from the South-South.

“If the government can include it in our curriculum from primary, secondary to tertiary levels, it will be a welcome development. The skill can also help to get enlisted in the marine, police or the navy. So, teaching this skill will not only save lives, it will bring laurels and glory to Nigeria.”

He recommended that swimming should be incorporated into the education curriculum and those who had the skills should be employed to teach it. He also said the government would need to orientate the populace to the importance of learning how to swim.

“People just have to be motivated. If people are motivated, they won’t mind where they are being taught how to swim. The government needs to show interest and sensitise the people. There could be a model school as a pilot where the scheme can start and other schools will follow,” Adelaja said.

A schools’ inspector with the Federal Ministry of Education, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said it was necessary for a policy to be in place and implemented in a way that would not cost the Federal Government too much.

He advised that the Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board’s method of conducting computer-based tests could be adopted.

“As with JAMB, private swimming instructors and pools could be brought into the scheme and before you know it, an economy sector will be formed around the policy. People will begin to get certified and work to maintain standard pools so they can key into the government’s goal of ensuring that pupils are taught to swim. Like CBT, the government can even generate revenue from swimming.”

A parent, Mrs Ekaette Ikono, said swimming lessons were good to curb drowning incidents. She, however, stated that it should remain optional, advising schools to “ensure good quality to avoid spread of diseases, employ only qualified trainers and make sure children below four years will not be included in the swimming lessons as they are not developmentally ready for it.”

Ms Constance Enyaosa, a guardian, suggested that instead of making swimming a mandatory co-curricular activity, swimming lessons should be made readily available and free because “the idea of making it mandatory might generate protests and make it unattractive.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]