Adebule lauds group for educating children on rights
Tare Youdeowei

The Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Dr Idiat Adebule, has commended the Live Abundantly Empowerment Initiative for educating women and children to know their rights.

Adebule spoke at an event organised by the non-governmental organisation to commemorate the annual 2019 International Women Day in Maryland, Lagos.

Represented by the Board Secretary of the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board, Mrs Kudirat Ajimoti, Adebule said this year’s event with the theme, ‘Think Equal, Build Smart, Innovate for Change,’ was meant to prepare women and children for economic development through education which would help them to change the societal landscape.

Adebule said, “The government is always delighted to work with organisations that strive to create a society where there is equality and where the rights of all citizens are respected and upheld, irrespective of their physiology and social standing.”

At the event, which was attended by head teachers and counsellors, a former Permanent Secretary of Education District IV, Mrs Lola Adegbite, encouraged teachers to give their best even in the face of numerous challenges while developing themselves into 21st-century teachers.

Adegbite also urged the government to close schools that were not given approval by the government as they posed a threat to pupils’ safety.

The Managing Director of SYNLAB Nigeria, Dr Pamela Jackson-Ajayi urged women to take care of themselves by knowing their “numbers”

The founder and Executive Director of the organisation, Dr Ama Onyerima, said the organisation, in championing the course to end violence against women and children, had become passionate about empowering women and seeing to the education of marginalised children.

“We must end gender disparity and appreciate the work women do. We must also empower the girl child. We need to keep the girl child in school.

“There are more than 13.2 million Nigerian children out of school, 60 per cent of that number are girls. This is a major crisis. We need to change the status quo. Our girls need to grow up into women that would positively change the societal landscape,” Onyerima said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]