Edo partners Facebook on Internet for public schools
Adekunle Peter, Benin

The Edo State Government has partnered the global social media giant, Facebook, to provide Internet infrastructure, learning resources and community support for teachers in public schools.

According to Governor Godwin Obaseki, the partnership, which will strengthen the state basic education reforms, was part of his administration’s technology drive to enable pupils to compete favourably with their peers globally.

He made this known at the inauguration of the Facebook Education Section at the Government House, Benin City.

Obaseki said, the support from the technology giant would assist the government in making public schools technology centres.

He said, “We have to prepare the Edo child for a competitive world; a world without boundaries, as children across the world will compete for the best that life can offer. Apart from recreating the curriculum, the use of technology is very important; that is why we are grateful to Facebook.

“We have dug almost 400 kilometres fibre optic cables around Benin metropolis and it will be extended to other parts of the state. Fibre optic cables are important infrastructure for modern living. They are as important as electricity; the combination of fibre optic cables and electricity put one in a competitive position globally.”

Obaseki noted that when the service became functional, teachers and other stakeholders in the education sector would fully maximise the use of technology to improve learning.

In his remarks, the Head, Facebook Education Partnerships, Dr Adam Seldow, said the company would assist pupils to learn better by providing connectivity and teachers’ resources.

Seldow explained that Facebook was interested in the state because of the government’s accomplishments with the Edo Basic Education Transformation Sector programme.

He noted that about 13.5 million children were not attending schools in Nigeria, while one in five teachers was not receiving relevant training to improve learning outcomes in classrooms, “which is why Facebook is providing intervention by assisting the state government to build professional community, provide teachers’ training materials and connectivity.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]