FCT pupils seek govt’s support to boost creativity
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

Schoolchildren in the Federal Capital Territory, last Thursday marked the World Poetry Day, urging the Federal Government to encourage skill and innovations among pupils.

The pupils, at a poetry workshop organised by the Korean Cultural Centre of Nigeria in Abuja, said with such encouragement from the government, the sky would be their limit.

The schools involved were Government Girls Secondary School, Dutse; Capital Science Academy, Government Secondary School, Nyanya; African Child College and Jewel Model School, Kubwa.

One of the pupils, Suleiman Maryam, said, “The government should create programmes that will enlighten youths and drive innovations. These days, cultism and examination malpractices are very common but the government can change that by showing that innovations and creativity still pay.

“One thing I learnt during the workshop is that ‘poets don’t cry, they write.’ We have learnt to believe in ourselves through poetry and we believe that the sky is our limit.”

Another pupil, Izebe Princess, said, “This workshop has inspired us to be creative in poetry and other areas of life. Last year, I wrote a poem, Pathway, and I won in a competition. This has encouraged me to write more poems.

“I believe that the government can do more to encourage creativity and skills among pupils and youths. The government once said the country’s youths are lazy, but innovations must be encouraged. The government has to drive vocational skills and not focus on only certificates.”

The KCCN Director, Mr Lee Jin Su, said the poetry workshop was to develop great young Nigerian talents to become literature giants like Prof. Wole Soyinka and the late Chinua Achebe.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]