UNIMED sacks worker over admission racketeering
Peter Dada, Akure

The Management of the University of Medical Sciences, Ondo, Ondo State, has dismissed a member of its staff allegedly getting involved in admission racketeering.

The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof Friday Okonofua, disclosed this in a meeting with journalists on Monday.

Without revealing the identity and designation of the affected worker, Okonofua said, “A member of the staff of this university was dismissed recently for collecting money for admission. We don’t tolerate indiscipline here.”

The vice-chancellor added that the institution had so far done its best in terms of welfare for its staff and students.

He also allayed the fears of workers agitating for confirmation of their appointments at the university by giving the assurance that none of them would be dismissed.

“We are aware that some people were agitating for confirmation of their appointments. I don’t think there is a problem here. The issue of appointment confirmation is statutory. There is a guideline on this, which says that after three years the appointment of any member of the university’s staff will be confirmed.

“I think this will be done,” he said.

On the forthcoming maiden convocation of UNIMED, Okonofua said that 40 students would be graduating from the various departments of the university. He added that the final results of the graduating students would be presented to the Senate of the school.

READ ALSO: ‘Operatives holding 23 Shi’ite girls since 2015’

The vice-chancellor also gave the assurance that each of the graduating students would collect his or her certificate immediately after the ceremony.

Okonofua, who also stated that the National Universities Commission had approved most of the academic programmes of the university, expressed the optimism that the institution would also receive approval for Medicine and Dentistry.

“By the end of 2020 or during the first quarter of 2021, we will graduate our first set of medical students,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]