No robbery at FUNAAB – Salako
Samuel Awoyinfa

The Vice-chancellor of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, Prof Kolawole Salako, has refuted a story published by an online publication, Sahara Reporters, that a robbery incident occurred in some hostels on the main campus of the institution last week.

Speaking on Monday, Salako described the publication as untrue, unfounded and aimed at causing mayhem on the campus.

He also denied the insinuation that students of the university were banned from engaging in protests and requested to sign indemnity forms either before or after the robbery incident.

The vice-chancellor said the fake news was the handiwork of a disgruntled person whose real motive was to cause mayhem in the institution, just like the one that happened in August 2016.

Although armed robbers reportedly raided a privately-owned hostel facility located a few kilometers from FUNAAB during the week, he added, the management of the institution had always been concerned about the safety of the students.

Salako said, “For the purpose of clarity, the university wishes to state that no robbery incident took place within the university premises in recent times.

“Regrettably, some unfortunate robbery incidents were reported to have occurred during the week at a privately owned hostel located some kilometres away from the university campus.

“By the university statute, they are outside the jurisdiction of the university management. Despite being beyond the direct jurisdiction of the management, the ugly incident has been reported to the relevant security agencies, particularly the Nigeria Police Force.

“While the police have taken proactive measures to forestall any reoccurrence, the management of the university also wishes to call the attention of the general public to the fact that this publication is coming on the heels of previous ones released through the social media by the same sources of the online publication.

It is also calculated to incite the students against the university authorities.”

Salako, who took journalists on a tour of some of the hostels located in isolated areas in Isolu, among others, in company with officials of the Students’ Union Government of FUNAAB and some community leaders, said the university had always maintained a cordial relationship with the students and had no reason to gag them from expressing themselves.

He warned agents of discord to steer clear of the institution.

Also the Chief Security Officer of the university, Sunday Bolarinwa, said many of the landlords who owned the private hostels were absentee landlords, who had failed to respond to FUNAAB’s management call for provision of vigilance operatives in their hostels’ vicinities.

The university management had said that it would revitalise the security committee that contained the management, hostel representatives, and security agents, among others.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]