15 years after, varsity graduates law students
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

Ajayi Crowther University, Oyo, has graduated its first set of students in the Faculty of Law.

The Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Dapo Asaju, disclosed this on Monday at a briefing held to announce the commencement of the university’s forthcoming 11th convocation.

Stressing that it was the first time in the 15 years of the university’s existence that it graduated its law students, Asaju said the institution, as a matter of policy, had resolved to produce students with uncommon standards who could think outside the box to solve Nigeria’s problems.

The Faculty of Law, the vice-chancellor added, graduated 54 students with three distinctions, while 24 students graduated in Second Class Upper Division.

He said 25 students made second class lower, while two made third class in the faculty.

Speaking on the faculties of the university, he said that a total of 1,390 students were conferred with first and postgraduate degrees in various programmes of the university. They included 1,063 undergraduates and 327 postgraduate students, with 44 graduating First Class; 550 in Second Class Upper division; 457 in Second Class Lower division and 12 students in Third Class.

The VC also disclosed that the university had commenced a test transmission of its radio station, 88.5 FM, which is scheduled to take off during the convocation.

Asaju said the station would begin full transmission as soon as the university gets a licence from the National Broadcasting Commission.

He said “ACU is sitting on the grounds of old Saint Andrew college where the best of brains and the leadership of this country were produced at the old St Andrews college, Oyo, we are building upon that tradition we want to do something different. We’re not competing with any university, so we don’t even mind about their ranking.

“We make sure we produce people standard in knowledge and in character because knowledge without character amount to nothing. This is what is bring Nigeria down, we have professors, doctors everywhere but they are powerless and those who have nothing to offer dominating the affairs of this country.

“We are raising Godly leaders who will solve Nigeria’s problems. In the Department of Physics, one of our lecturers have developed a drone and traffic light system. Our students are equipped with vocational skills. No student will leave this university without an additional certificate of vocational skills.

The students here are being taught to think differently from ordinary Nigerians.

The convocation will take place on Tuesday, October 15.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]