Activist intervenes in FUL employment crisis
Gbenga Odogun, Lokoja

Renowned activist, Engineer Oladapo Bayode, has intervened in the crisis that is currently rocking the Federal University, Lokoja over an alleged lopsidedness in the recent employment of junior cadre workers.

The youths of Adankolo community in Kogi State, where the institution is located, had protested the alleged non-inclusion of residents in the employment process. But the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof Angela Miri, denied the allegation.

Bayode, in a statement, said his decision to intervene in the matter was due to his desire to prevent a breakdown of law and order in the community.

He said he had concluded arrangements to hold a roundtable discussion with youth of the host community on the need to embrace peace.

Bayode also emphasised the need for the host communities to support the development of the university, which can only be guaranteed under a peaceful atmosphere.

He said, “The place of the University in the overall manpower development of Kogi State cannot be overemphasised. If we must maximise the benefit attached to the location of the university in Lokoja, we must be seen to support its development and overall peace.

“The proposed roundtable discussion is aimed at boosting understanding and analysing the grievances of the host communities, particularly on the recent massive employment of new workers at the university as a result of the introduction of new academic programmes.”

He gave stakeholders the assurance that the discussion would yield a workable peace pact and lay a foundation for partnership between the people of the host communities and the university.

He reiterated the need for the host communities to take the centre stage on issues that concern FUL as one of the critical stakeholders on whose land the university is situated.

He, however, condemned the dispute between both parties and use of hate speech capable of causing disaffection amongst the stakeholders of the university.

“A university is a decent environment whose peace and tranquility we must assiduously stand up for at all times’’ he noted.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]