Quackery in teaching ends by December, says TRCN
Leke Baiyewu, Abuja

the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria has named Edo as the leading state in the country in terms of teacher qualification and training.

The TRCN also said the December 31, 2019, deadline issued by the Federal Government to phase out quacks from the teaching profession still remained sacrosanct.

The Registrar of the council, Prof Josiah Ajiboye, who disclosed this in Abuja on Thursday, while appearing before the House of Representatives Committee on Basic Education for the defence of the 2020 budget, also said six other states were not doing well in terms of teacher education.

While Ajiboye did not disclose the states with the largest number of unqualified teachers, he stressed that the monitoring exercise to fish out quacks would begin in January 2020 across the country.

He stated that the ongoing repositioning of the teaching profession would take it to a new level.

Ajibye said the repositioning would take teaching from the normal scheme of service to a new level and give them their own specialised scheme of service, whereby teachers would be motivated to do well in the profession and enjoy the benefits of their services.

He added, “TRCN is a member of the African Teaching Regulatory Authorities and also a member of the International Forum of Teaching Regulatory Authorities. These two bodies regulate teaching in Africa and globally.

“TRCN is a strong member and because of that we have an Article of Faith that has been agreed upon by all member-nations. This is what we call Letter of Professional Standing.

“What Nigerians interested in teaching in any part of the world need to do is approach TRCN for that Letter. And when we issue the letter, they are given the same recognition as a professional teacher in any country where they want to teach. So, it’s really working well.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]