GCI Old Boys support Oyo with 59 teachers
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

the Government College Ibadan Old Boys Association on Thursday gave free lunch to 2, 300 pupils of the school, as part of the activities marking the 90th anniversary of the school.

The President of the association, Dr Wale Babalakin, who was represented by the 1st Vice President, Tola Obembe, said the gesture was aimed at allowing the pupils to savour the joy of the celebration.

Recalling that the week-long event had been beneficial and remarkable, Babalakin said the presentation of awards to six literary icons, the anniversary lunch with the staff and pupils of the school and the anticipated donation of items valued at N1million to the less privileged on Friday would be the climax of the event on Saturday.

Babalakin said the Annual General Meeting of the association, the commissioning of projects and the merit awards ceremony would hold on Saturday to round-off the activities on the school premises.

Responding to a question on government’s efforts at repositioning the education sector, Babalakin lauded Governor Seyi Makinde and urged him to do more in the area of recruitment of qualified teachers for schools.

He regretted that only 24 teachers, including the principal, were in the school and the GCIOBA had to shoulder the responsibility of paying 59 others to ensure quality teaching and learning.

“We observed that the state government needs to do a lot in the area of recruitment of qualified teachers. They have 24 teachers for the whole school (senior and junior arms) with over 2, 000 students as you can see.

“The GCIOBA took it upon itself to recruit 16 teachers and also recalled 34 others recruited by the Parents Teachers Association but laid off because of the government’s directive for the stoppage of all levies in schools,” he added.

Also speaking, the National Social Secretary and the Chairman, Planning Committee of the anniversary, Mr Yinka Adepoju, said, “What we are doing today (Anniversary lunch with students and staff) is a GCI tradition.

“We are trying to bring the lost glory of the school by contributing about N500m to develop the infrastructural facilities of the school,” Adepoju added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]