Mass promotion caused dearth of reading skills —Experts
Tare Youdeowei

Experts in the basic education sector have blamed the decline in the reading ability of primary school leavers on mass promotion policy.

They agreed that the problem had its roots in Nigeria’s inability to meet up with the Millennium Development Goals and the nation’s slow pace in reaching the Sustainable Development Goals.

At the turn of the new millennium, member states of the United Nations set eight goals for the development of their countries. One of the goals was the provision of universal primary education. Member states were to achieve set goals between 2000 and 2015.

As of 2015, Nigeria, which is a member of the UN, had 10.5 million out-of-school children after15 years of working towards achieving the goal of universal primary education.

Barely three years into the next phase of the development goals — SDGs for 2030 — with quality education as the fourth goal, the country still has 13.2 children out of school.

The country had 25.6 million children in school as of 2016; but the World Bank reported that 20 per cent of the children could not read after completing primary education.

These figures, according to stakeholders, speak volumes about the dwindling quality of primary education.

They also said the poor quality of primary education had a ripple and burdensome effect on secondary and tertiary education.

The Assistant Programme Manager of the Education Partnership Centre, Inyang Udo-Umoren, told our correspondent on Wednesday that Nigeria had up to 20 per cent of its primary school leavers unable to read due to a number of factors.

She said, “ln schools, you have children who are strong and those who are weak. One of the problems we have is that there is insufficient support for those who are not doing well. Strong pupils would likely have parental support from home and have access to textbooks which they can use to practice at home. The pupils that are not doing well will likely not have this support; they also probably have parents who are not literate.

“Even those that have textbooks have to have people who encourage them to read and instil the reading culture. If they don’t have literate parents, it means the only time they might read is when they are in school. And if they don’t have strong teachers, it’s also a problem.”

She also blamed the decline in the quality of primary education on not making pupils repeat a class if they don’t do well.

She said, “The key issue with poor literacy skills will be that the foundation is weak. You find that some children who don’t gain reading skills while in primary one or two are still promoted until they get to primary six. Of course, they would still lack the skill to read. What should obtain is that even if you want to make pupils progress to the next class despite not grasping the basic skills from the current class, a support system should be provided in the new class. That support system is missing.”

Udo-Umoren listed early marriage and lack of funds by parents for fees and other expenses as factors affecting improved enrolment, advising that the government had to go beyond enrolment to ensuring that pupils remained in school and get quality education.

“The big issue now is not just getting the pupils to school, but getting them to stay in school and providing quality education, and this is where the teachers have a big role to play. The quality of people we recruit as teachers are still very questionable and we know that teachers have a key role to play in how good a pupil becomes academically. So, it is important to strengthen the quality of teachers we have for public schools. We can start by looking at the recruitment process for teachers. So, teacher recruitment and development are key.”

Also, Facebook’s Dr Adam Seldow, while in Benin, Edo State, last week said, “One in five teachers is not receiving relevant training to improve learning outcomes in classrooms.”

However, a teacher in a state-owned public secondary school in Benin, Edo State, who identified herself as Aseri Black, blamed parents for the declining ability of pupils to read after primary school. She said the situation often carried on till as far as junior secondary school three, thus becoming a burden to the pupil, teacher and parent.

She said, “Some of them can’t write properly too. The problem lies mostly with the parents, they don’t supervise their children. They expect the teachers to do all the work. Some parents are not even around to guide their children, and that is a big issue because if a child comes home and the parents ask what was done in school, in the process of the child telling them what was done, they will retain those things. That is for parents that are available.

“For parents that are not available, arrangements could be made for lesson teachers to be with the child and go over what they did in school. Although, time spent with a parent would be best, we understand that parents have to work to afford to take care of the children; but it doesn’t have to be only workdays that this interaction with children can take place, it can happen on weekends too. There are some parents that are just negligent. Even when they are available, they don’t take the time out to supervise their children.”

Aseri, who taught for seven years in primary schools, advised parents not to be in a hurry to rush the child through the school but should make sure that the school had gone through the child.

She said, “Parents should take the foundational education of their children seriously. They could also provide extra lessons for the children, although this might prove difficult when the children are at a higher class and need to be taught elementary things that they should have done in early primary school.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]