FUOYE warns students against plagiarism
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Vice-Chancellor of Federal University of Oye Ekiti, Prof. Kayode Soremekun, has warned the new post-graduate students of the institution against plagiarism, saying it would attract dire consequences.

Soremekun, who noted that research was important for productivity and development of any nation, said the future of research lies in the hands of the young generation, including the post-graduate students, who he urged to research into areas that would benefit humanity.

The VC, represented by the Chairman, FUOYE Committee of Deans, Prof. Babatope Alabadan, spoke at Oye Ekiti on Friday during the maiden matriculation ceremony for FUOYE School of Post-graduate Studies.

A total of 292 post-graduate students, which consisted of 62 PhD, 220 Masters and 10 post-graduate diploma students, were matriculated at the event.

He said, “FUOYE has zero-tolerance for plagiarism. Plagiarism will negatively affect the university, supervisors and the students. FUOYE is growing; we have a name and we want to protect it. When you are doing your research, be mindful of other people’s works and acknowledge them.”

Soremekun, who highlighted the importance of research, said FUOYE had set aside some funds to assist students and lecturers to do some research because quality research would make the university visible.

The Dean of Postgraduate Studies, Prof. Rasaki Bakare, said starting the institution’s post-graduate school with 292 students was an indication that the university was successful.

Bakare said, “The number is huge when compared to the age of the university. A total of 47,000 students showed an interest in our school but we couldn’t accommodate all of them.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]