Edo Poly commences oil palm milling
Tare Youdeowei

The Edo State Polytechnic, Usen, has commenced oil palm milling and has put in motion plans to develop a palm tree plantation to promote enterprise and research.

This was made known by the Rector of the institution, Prof. Abiodun Falodun, in a statement on Monday.

He added that the institution was set to revolutionise the idea of tertiary institutions as solution centres.

Falodun said, “With the support from the Tertiary Education Trust Fund, we have set up an oil milling plant in the school. We intend to mop up the oil palm harvest from smallholder farmers in the community and mill them here to produce palm oil and other by-products.”

He added that the school had designed a roadmap to developing a plantation that would serve as a source of raw material for the facility, noting that the seedlings were going to be sourced from the Nigeria Institute of Oil Palm Research.

“I am quite delighted that we have set up this facility. We are going to commence the development of a palm plantation within the school which will service the oil milling plant. But at the moment, we intend to mop up what we can from smallholders in the community and environs.

“Our grand plan is to have more than one processing centre within the school that will produce finished goods from the different crops grown in the community. Aside from the oil palm, we also intend to build one for yam and banana processing. The students will play active roles in the development of the plantation as it would form part of their entrepreneurial studies.”

“The processing centres will not only serve as enterprises, the school will also use them as research stations to develop new and allied products from the different crops that we grow in Usen community,” Falodun said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]