Private varsities can better manage TETFund allocations –VC, Elizade University
The new Vice-Chancellor of the Elizade University, Ilara Mokin, Ondo State, Prof. Olukayode Amund, talks about university education in Nigeria and his plans for the varsity among other issues with PETER DADA

Private universities have been calling on government to include them among the beneficiaries of Tertiary Education Trust Fund otherwise called TETFund. What is your view on this?

I have joined in that debate that all universities should be treated equally because all those you find in those universities are Nigerians and the TETFund belongs to Nigerians. Why then should a group of Nigerians be denied the benefits of the fund?

Do you think government will give a positive response to it?

They said they want to amend the TETFund Act but we will continue to put pressure through the association of vice-chancellors to amend that Act so that private universities too can enjoy from TETFund. It is in the private universities that the fund can be better utilised. If you go round the public universities, you will see shoddy jobs they do on the campuses and this is a colossal waste of public funds. This can’t happen in the private universities because we will want to get value for our money.

But it is believed that private universities are private business ventures.

It is not so. It is not a business venture because the government invited private sector to assist them in the education sector because they could not provide enough facilities for the teeming population that requires university education. Consequently, the government should be able to create a level-playing field for all the universities. What you give to the public universities as subsidies, you should be able to do the same to the private universities. All you are doing is that you are taking care of your citizens who are being tutored in the universities.

What other ways do you think the government can assist the private higher institutions?

Another way the government can assist is to create an environment conducive to learning for the universities. They can send students to the schools and give them scholarships. By giving scholarships to their students in those universities, they are helping in a good way. When a university is established in a state, it is providing employment for the people of the area. The government should be able to reciprocate that gesture by sponsoring students to the institutions. In Ondo, we enjoy a good relationship with the state government and we are going to ask for more because they can never do enough to support us.

There is always an argument about the better between students of public and private universities. Do you think an examination for first class university graduates in the two arms will settle the matter?

Yes and that has been proposed by Chief Afe Babalola. I once read it in the newspapers, and he has a reason for that proposal. The products of Afe Babalola University went to Law School last year. In fact, the majority of the first class in Law School came from ABUAD. They did better than the products of the older universities that took the professional exams. If you look at the ranking of universities, the last one they did in Nigeria, the number one university is Covenant University and it is a private university.

The University of Ibadan came second in the ranking. That may corroborate the notion to have a competitive examination. After all, it is the same syllabus that all the schools use as provided by the National Universities Commission. We should have same examination for all the university students and see who will perform better. We in the private universities have confidence in our products. We have the full complement of the syllabus. The Academic Staff Union of Universities was on strike for four months, it is the students that will suffer it because immediately after the strike they are preparing the students for exams while lectures have not been completed in all the courses.

How can such students be on the same level with those taught by teachers who didn’t embark on strike and have the full dose of lectures, practicals and other experiences?

I will subscribe to that motion to have common final exams for all first-class graduates and prove to the world the better between the two. Also know that even overseas, the best universities are private universities.

You said during your school’s matriculation that the university would start basic medical science courses. Wouldn’t it be expensive for a young school to run such a programme?

Establishing basic medical sciences is just a prelude to having a college of medicine in the future. We are not going to rush into that because it is capital intensive. But establishing it will assist us to really prepare for the task ahead. Some of the basic medical science courses we want to be doing include anatomy, physiology and physiotherapy. We are also going to have medical laboratory science because of the demand and we want to create an avenue for those seeking admissions to our university.

What are the institution’s goals?

The university has a seven-point agenda as embedded in its name, ELIZADE. E stands for engagement of quality faculty members to complement high-quality students. By L, we are leveraging on the infrastructural endowment for the university of excellence. The letter I stands for innovative and creativity. By letter Z, we are talking about zealousness in academic delivery and research. A is for attainment of a world-class status and prima position in Nigeria, because we are doing what world-class universities are doing. Therefore, we want to be among their peers.

D stands for deployment of technological tools in teaching research and administration. Lastly, the letter E in the agenda is the entrepreneurial empowerment through robust skill acquisition programme.

We give our students hands-on experiences on the fields. The theory they learn will be complemented with practicals so that when they are out, they will be job providers on their own because they would have been equipped to stand alone as entrepreneurs.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]