I’m glad I didn’t die of hunger and still graduated with first-class degree – Ojo, OAU law graduate
Ojo Jeremiah, 29, was the only student who graduated with a first-class degree in the Department of Law, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Osun State, in the 2015/2016 academic session. He also replicated the feat at the Nigerian Law School, Abuja campus. He speaks about his success in this interview with TUNDE AJAJA

Would you say you are in your dream profession as a lawyer?

Exactly; my dream was to be a lawyer, which I am today by the mercy of God. From childhood, my father used to address each of his children with the title of a profession that he desired for each of us and eventually, we ended up studying the respective courses he had desired for us. That’s why my family is a family of professionals – doctor, lawyer, engineers, accountant and a scientist.

Did he also influence your decision to graduate with a first-class degree?

I thank God for the kind of parents that I have. I made up my mind to graduate with a first-class degree, even before leaving home because my father always emphasised that the only grade acceptable to him was a first-class grade and nothing else. He always emphasised that there is no shortcut to success and that if one reads reflectively, desirable success is attainable. And I thank God I didn’t fall short of that expectation. I won’t say it was easy, it was not easy at all. However, I bless God for His grace and mercy that saw me through. I give God the glory. When I lost my mum on March 13, 2002, I promised myself that I would always give my best to my education, and my siblings are very wonderful people. I have the strongest relationship with them and they all have very brilliant and inspiring academic performances. I truly love them all.

Were there times your parents rewarded you for your excellent results?

I can’t remember if there was any. However, I know that whenever we came home with good results during our primary and secondary school days, my parents would applaud us and still emphasise that we could actually do better.

When you were younger, were there times your parents or siblings had to chastise you to read or were you always committed to reading on your own?

In my primary and secondary school days, there were times I was seriously chastised by my father. Overall, he hated and frowned on bad performances and he was never satisfied with a second position. He always encouraged us to be the best and nothing but the best. I could remember an incident when I was in primary four; I came 12th out of 63 students. I had never performed that poorly before. I usually came 2nd, 3rd or 4th. Immediately I got my report card, I started crying profusely. I went to hide somewhere; I didn’t want to go home. After crying for several hours, a good Samaritan took me home and begged my dad until he agreed not to discipline me. That day has remained vivid in my memory. I ensured that the incident did not repeat itself again.

How easy was it passing your West African Senior Secondary Certificate Examination and the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination?

It was not that easy because of the secondary school I went to. It was as if the school didn’t have good record in WASSCE performance. However, I only did the examination once. The UTME experience was not too palatable because I took the exam many times before I eventually got the cut-off score to get admitted into the Faculty of Law, Obafemi Awolowo University. I never failed any of the UTMEs I attempted; it was only that I didn’t meet up with the cut-off score for my course.

Since you took UTMEs many times, what were you doing during that period?

I graduated from senior secondary school in 2006, I gained admission in 2012. It was really a trying period for me. It was a very difficult period for me and I almost hurt myself. Even my younger brother got university admission before me. I lost all my friends because they had all got admission while I was still at home. By the time I was going to university, some of my friends had graduated and some were getting married already. But today, some of them now look up to me. It would interest you to know that it wasn’t that I failed the post-UTME exams; there were times I scored 275 and something close, but it was never up to the cut-off mark. At some point, I taught in a local school and the good part of it is that some of the students I taught are doing well today. Two are studying law, one is in Year six in medical school, among others. The principal really loved me because it was as if I brought something that was missing.

Law students often share their experience about citing cases during exams. Would you say it was that tough or that it was an exaggeration?

To be truthful, it is not an exaggeration, it is that tough and very voluminous. Sometimes, during examinations many times I cited more than 30 cases in just a single examination. You can imagine writing about 32 pages during an examination of just three hours. You just must be smart, brave, fast and very intelligent. Despite these, there were times I had grades that were very discouraging but I never gave up and I thank God for encouragements from my friends. Overall, I am what I am today by the grace of God.

Being the only one who graduated with a first-class degree in your department, what were the things you did differently from others?

I may not know what I did differently from others, but I know that I was very hard-working, consistent, focused, determined, and passionate about graduating with a first-class degree and I was totally dependent on God. And I started from the first semester in my first year. Although my grades dropped along the line, I worked harder to bring them up there again. I believe that academic success is not about reading all the time, I understood myself, I didn’t copy anyone’s reading style and I had confidence in God. I had to read when there was opportunity to do so as I had to engage in some profit-oriented activities to sustain myself.

You graduated with first-class degrees in both institutions, which would you say was easier?

I can’t say one was tougher or easier than the other. However, in the university, you are likely to know if you will end up graduating with a first-class degree because the grades are cumulative. It is also unlikely that a single mistake made in respect of a course would lead to downfall. But in law school, the grades are not cumulative; a single mistake in a course could spell doom for one’s grade, due to the grading system. To graduate with a first-class degree in law school, you must have ‘A’ in all the courses. And your lowest grade is the final grade you finish with. For instance, if someone has four A’s and one C, that is second class lower. You are graded by your lowest grade, it is that serious. So, I cannot really say one was easier or tougher. University requires consistency and persistence from the first year to final year, while law school is just one year but can be very dangerous.

People have expressed worry over the rate of failure at the law school. Would you have an idea of why it’s that bad?

Well, the failure may be due to stress. I don’t think the work is that difficult. However, the workload is too voluminous and very stressful. Apart from the fact that there are five voluminous courses, the examinations come one after the other, meaning you take one exam every day (Monday to Friday). If anything goes wrong with someone writing the examination during these days, it is like a death sentence. Law school is stressful and you have to work hard to be excellent. You just have to be focused. No doubt, there are distractions, but I remained focused and determined to repeat the same feat I had as an undergraduate.

How would you have felt if you had not graduated with a first-class degree in the law school?

I know heaven wouldn’t have fallen, but I would have been disappointed. Thank God it did not happen. God is always faithful.

Would you say your performance has opened doors for you or given you some opportunities?

Graduating with a first-class degree really opened doors and opportunities for me. Before I decided to join Templars, a leading full-service law firm in Nigeria, I had offers from top law firms in Abuja and Lagos, including an oil company.

What have you been doing since you graduated?

I commenced the National Youth Service Corps programme immediately after law school. I’m currently an associate in Templars.

You spoke about having financial challenges, was the situation bad?

Yes, both as an undergraduate and at the law school. During my undergraduate days, my father (Pastor Ojo) provided financial support, which I supplemented through tutorials, especially ICAN tutorials where I taught Business Law as a course. I also engaged in photocopying and printing work. Thank God I had 100 per cent success because all those people I taught during that period passed their examinations. It wasn’t easy combining all those with my education, but I thank God I emerged victorious. The experience I had in law school was different entirely as I had to struggle to survive. The little I was given from home was not sufficient at all. I used to eat once in a day, and I might not have any sometimes. It was tough, but I thank God that in His faithfulness, I didn’t die of hunger and I still graduated with a first-class degree.

Do you like litigation or you have interest in other things?

I don’t really have a preliminary interest in litigation. I would prefer to become a corporate and commercial lawyer and eventually be a professor of law, where I can teach students what I know and use the legal knowledge I have acquired to help solve societal problems.

What part of law would you like to specialise in?

I would like to specialise in corporate, commercial, finance and energy law.

It has all been about your education, were you social at all?

I was not very social, due largely to the circumstances, especially financial challenges I was faced with at that time, which meant I had to dedicate most of my time to engaging in activities that could provide me with money to sustain myself. Beyond academic works, I was an executive member for three consecutive years at the Deeper Life Campus Fellowship, OAU and I must add that the church also contributed to my success, in terms of constant motivation and programmes that truly impact lives. Permit me to add that I look up to my pastor and mentor, Pastor William Folorunsho Kumuyi. I will love to be like him. He is an erudite scholar and a lover of God, which I believe is the purpose of our existence. Although, I have not discussed with him before, I’m hopeful that someday I will be privileged to have a discussion with him and tell him that I am his mentee. I keep that hope alive.

Did you win any awards as an undergraduate and at the law school?

I like to mention this first; after my undergraduate studies, when it appeared that I might have delay in proceeding to the Nigeria Law School due to problem of finance, Reginald Aziza Foundation offered me a scholarship that catered for my school fees of #295,000.00. That was very helpful and I’m grateful for it. At the law school, I won the Director General’s award for the first-class students, an award of Outstanding Academic Excellence by the Student Representative Council of the Nigerian Law School, Abuja. But during our convocation in school, I won about seven awards: Faculty Prize, Justice Kayode Esho Annual Prize, Justice Olu Ayoola Prize, Justice C. O. Madarikan Prize, Justice Mohammed Bello Prize, Chief Gani Fawehinmi Prize and Justice Jaiyeola Abayomi Olowofoyeku Prize for best graduating student in the Faculty of Law.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]