NYSC’s biometric clearance system’ll curb corruption – DG
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps, Maj Gen Suleiman Kazaure, has disclosed that the corps has introduced a biometric clearance system to eliminate corruption and compromise by officials and corps members.

The DG stated this on Monday during a leadership and anti-corruption sensitisation workshop in Abuja, designed to raise a crop of officials that will imbibe good leadership qualities and enthrone a culture of transparency and accountability.

He also revealed that the scheme had ensured strict compliance with the government policies on the Treasury Single Account, the Integrated Personnel and Payroll System and the Government Integrated Financial Management Information System.

Stating that the scheme was working towards training youths that would imbibe the virtues of hard work, honesty, integrity and patriotic service, Kazaure said, “Driven by zero tolerance for corruption, the scheme has in recent years evolved an internal mechanism for promoting transparency in the conduct of operations.

“The introduction of biometric clearance system for corps members has virtually eliminated all chances of compromise by officials, as well as absenteeism and abscondence by corps members. The biometrics now ensures that only deserving corps members are paid the monthly and other statutory allowances. Registration of prospective corps members by proxy at our orientation camps is now gone as a result of the Information and Communications Technology-driven initiative.”

He added that scheme had also introduced an application that allowed registrars of tertiary institutions to vet the data uploaded by student affairs officers, thereby eliminating sharp practices.

“The self-posting procedure introduced by the scheme now gives the prospective corps members a choice from four states option and reduces the pressure from the public seeking preferential deployment f

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]