103 students bag First Class at Open University
Olaleye Aluko

The National Open University of Nigeria on Saturday graduated 20,799 students with 103 of them bagging First Class honours in various academic disciplines.

NOUN’s Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Abdalla Adamu, disclosed this during the institution’s convocation in Abuja.

According to him, the university has the highest single graduation of students in one year in Nigeria, urging them to be its good ambassadors.

He said, “The massive increase in the number of graduands this year is a clear indication of increasing confidence reposed in the school by Nigerians. The university in the last three years has continued to grow in leaps and bounds, maintaining a central credo in order to solve its problem.

“As a weapon of mass instruction, people are now accepting Open Distance Learning as a way and system of self-training.”

Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has said that the causes of most crises in the country can be traced to ignorance and a lack of education, adding that the Federal Government will make education affordable and open to all.

The President stated this in his address at the 8th Convocation of the National Open University of Nigeria, noting that the government would enhance quality education through more budgetary allocations and special interventions.

Buhari, who is the Visitor to the university, was represented by the Deputy Executive Secretary of the National Universities’ Commission, Victor Onuoha, who also read the President’s speech.

Buhari said, “It is common knowledge that the root cause of most of the recorded crises of nationhood we experience in Nigeria is as a result of ignorance which we hope can be abated through functional mass education.

“This is why the Federal Government is committed to making education affordable through the open and distance learning process.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]