Lagos school shines at global enterprise challenge
Dayo Ojerinde

A school in Lagos State, Greensprings School Lekki, has emerged the second runner-up of the School Enterprise Challenge in Africa where over 1,000 schools across the globe participated.

The challenge, an initiative of Teach A Man To Fish, a United Kingdom charity organisation, which was aimed at helping pupils learn 21st-century business skills to support their schools and local community, had pupils write business plans, conduct market research and prepare business budgets.

The pupils were awarded $2,000 for their GREENY-G Mini Mart business which would provide toiletries, stationery and healthy foods for members of the school community.

Commending the pupils, the school’s principal, Mrs Feyisara Ojugo said, “The mini mart has provided our pupils with the opportunity to meet the stationery and grocery needs of their immediate community. It has also ignited the spirit of enterprise among the pupils. We are hopeful that they will come up with other ventures to continue to grow their entrepreneurial skills.

“With its establishment, the pupils have learnt skills such as planning, finance, sustainability, teamwork, research, sales, bookkeeping and marketing. In addition to this, they have also learnt how to keep financial books accurately.”

Speaking on the importance of the School Enterprise Challenge, the Chief Executive Officer of Teach A Man To Fish, Nik Kafka, said, “We are on a mission to tackle youth unemployment and the learning crisis. The potential shown by these winners reminds us of why it is so important to give young people the skills to become the job creators of tomorrow.”

Also, the school’s Director of Education, Ms Helen Brocklesby, said, “We are indeed proud of the efforts of our pupil, they have worked very hard to achieve success and we believe it will be profitable. I am happy that our school got recognized and won an award. This is exciting for us.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]