JUNSTI pleads with Al-Makura to implement 2013 promotion
Umar Muhammed, Lafia

The Joint Union of Nasarawa State Tertiary Institutions has appealed to the Nasarawa State Government to urgently address the protracted strike embarked upon by the union to avoid the collapse of education in the state.

The Chairman of the union, Mr Useini Paul, made the appeal while addressing journalists in Lafia on Monday on the four weeks old industrial action of the union.

He said the state-owned tertiary institutions, which comprised of the Nasarawa State Polytechnic, Lafia; College of Agriculture, Lafia and College of Education, Akwanga, would remain shut as long as the government did not show any concern over their demands.

According to Paul, the three state-owned tertiary institutions embarked on industrial action four weeks ago over alleged failure of the state government to address some of their demands which included the non-implementation of promotion from 2013.

Other demands, he said, were non-payment of pensions and gratuity to retirees and the non-implementation of the white paper on the investigation into the three institutions by body set up by the state government.

Useini added that the union would not have embarked on the strike if the government had shown genuine commitment to addressing the union’s demands and other challenges facing the institutions.

Also, the President of the Students’ Union Government, College of Agriculture, Mr Johnpaul Emmanuel, and the Speaker of the school’s Students Parliament, Emmanuel Ude, described the strike as a colossal setback to the development of education in the state.

They appealed to the union and the state government to take urgent steps to resolve the impasse.

Reacting to the issue, the State Commissioner for Higher Education, Mr Clement Uhembe, said the state government had been engaging the leadership of the union with a view to finding a common ground for resolving the strike.

Meanwhile, a visit to the campuses of the three tertiary institutions by our correspondent, indicated that academic and non-academic activities had come to a halt as offices and lecture halls were closed.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]