Author advises pupils to go beyond textbooks
Tare Youdeowei

AN author, Mrs Sola Oguche-Agudah, at a book reading session for pupils in celebration of the World Book day, last Thursday, organised by Laterna Ventures Limited, urged pupils to read more books in addition to recommended textbooks.

During the session, held at Laterna’s office in Victoria Island, Lagos, the author of Zara, a motivational book on parenting, love, marriage and family, also said that books could help the mind to grow and equip one to make contributions to issues that would make a difference.

Oguche-Agudah said, “There is a wealth of information to be derived from books. Like it is said, in five years time the people you meet and the books you read will determine who you become. Meeting people and reading exposes you and sparks imagination and creativity. It increases your knowledge and you speak more informatively. A book is transformational and affects lives positively.”

On encouraging all pupils, regardless of financial background or literacy level, to read, she suggested, “One way will be to write literature that speaks their language without being above their level of understanding. Most of it must be pictorial, contain graphics so that it catches attention so they don’t lose interest.

“Also, it is true that pupils learn from example. In any society, it is always the responsibility of the elite to bring up the non-elite. So, we may regard this as a social responsibility. “They can show the parents examples of people from their background that are making a difference because of exposure to literacy. We need to document real life stories of people who have gone on to make a change in the world from expanding their minds through reading. We can’t leave it to parents alone because they are mostly about survival, and survival for them does not include reading.”

On her part, the Head of Retail at Laterna, Mrs Cecila Adegbolagun, said the call for pupils to read wide was necessitated by the dearth of reading culture in the country, which she blamed on people’s ignorance of the importance of reading.

She said, “We are doing this to let people know that reading can transform them, change their mind set and make them better persons. Another reason we celebrate the World Book day is for the future generation. The future belongs to those who learn to read, it is necessary to be able to keep up with the happenings in the world.

“Sadly, in Nigeria we have not adopted reading as a part of life. So, the onus is on us who know the value of books to educate people about the importance of reading at various stages of their life. Some people might not have been raised with the mind set of reading, but by the time they find themselves in another setting, they realise the importance of reading, and that is why we are doing this.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]