Ado Poly inaugurates 42 advisory c’ttees, promotes 145 workers
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Federal Polytechnic, Ado Ekiti in Ekiti State, on Friday inaugurated 42 advisory management committees in a bid to provide strategic direction and guide for quality improvement in the institution.

The Rector of the institution, Dr Dayo Oladebeye, said the inauguration of the committees was a fulfilment of his resolve to involve a broad spectrum of the rank and file of the existing staff in the decision-making process of the school.

At the ceremony held on the school premises, Oladebeye said, “This is in view of my conviction of the inherent advantages in the participatory and democratic approach to decision making. The committees are primarily set up to serve as veritable tools in ensuring a virile and invigorated administration and management of the institution towards unhindered, physical, social and academic development of this school.”

The rector appreciated the Governing Council, staff, students and trade union executives for their support in ensuring sustainable, peaceful and conducive environment for learning.

He said the union leaders had displayed a high level of understanding in their engagement, saying their amicable resolution of seemingly intractable issues was commendable and had brought efficiency in institution administration.

He said, “In spite of the daunting financial challenges, the institution will not derail from its foundational goals and vision of raising the bar and standard of functional and qualitative education in the world.”

Oladebeye charged the newly constituted committees members to justify the confidence repose in them through effective service delivery in their respective capacities, urging them to bring their intellectual prowess to bear in ensuring that the institution was positioned on the map of world class institutions.

In another development, the institution promoted 145 senior teaching and non-teaching members of staff.

This feat, the rector said, was in line with the institution’s determination to carry out staff appraisals and promotions in the most transparent and judicious manner as and when due without personal bias and any form of victimisation.

The exercise led to the emergence of 13 new chief lecturers, among others.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]