Be change agents, Alabi advises Chrisland varsity students
Tare Youdeowei

Seventy new students of the Chrisland University in Abeokuta, Ogun State, have been advised to consider themselves the change agents the nation needs.

The advice was given last Thursday during the university’s fourth matriculation by the Managing Director of Forte Oil Services Upstream, Mr Oluseye Alabi, while he spoke on the theme, Exceeding the Norm.

Alabi, who urged the students to see the ceremony as part of a process to greater and better things in future, said, “It is a call to gird your loins for the major task ahead. The great opportunity you have in your hands today must not be squandered on the altar of trivialities and negative tendencies which will add no value to you either now or in the future. Anything that will not positively support the attainment of your objectives in this university must not be tolerated.

“I am saying this against the background of the progressive decadence in our society occasioned by the combined evil malaise of kidnapping, substance abuse, sundry scamming, ritual killings and other anti-social and violent crimes. These are vices that destroy careers and destinies. You will make yourselves, your parents, well-wishers and the university proud if you totally avoid these vices. In the end you will be glad you did because history is littered with the carcasses of otherwise great personalities who were cut short due to substance abuse and other dangerous vices.”

He also advised the students to build good character as they pursue their careers.

On her part, the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof ChinedumBabalola, cautioned the students against limiting themselves and hiding their talents.

“There is a wealth of potential within you but you must decide if you will deprive the world of it or bless it with the valuable, potent, untapped resources locked within you. No one can limit you but you; no boss, teacher, partner or colleague. We have potential and if we are willing, great things are possible.

“You need to continually remember that the distance between today’s ceremony and convocation is not long, so ensure that the journey ends successfully. This university has zero tolerance for cultism, drug abuse, sexual immorality and any form of vice or crime. We appeal to parents to support and cooperate with us in training the students.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]