FAMFA Oil inspires schoolchildren to read on World Book Day
Last Thursday, March 7, was World Book Day in Nigeria, an annual event aimed at celebrating the book as an all-important cultural item all over the world. Lagos-based oil and gas company, FAMFA Oil Limited, grabbed the opportunity offered by the occasion to hold its maiden book reading event at the MUSON Centre in Onikan, Lagos, with over 300 schoolchildren drawn from selected schools in the state.

Themed, Share a story, the event had prominent Nigerians and captains of industry, such as the Managing Director of Fidelity Bank Plc, Mr. Nnamdi Okonkwo; technology expert and Google’s Country Manager (Nigeria), Mrs Juliet Chiazor; Co-founder and Vice-Chairman of the Channels Media Group, Mrs Sola Momoh and Mrs. Naza Alakija, among others, reading to the children. Apart from reading a chapter each to the children, the readers urged them to show more interest in reading books.

The organisers of the event selected a book authored by 11-year-old, Munachi Mbonu and entitled, Chidubem: A Child of Destiny for the reading session. The plot of the book revolves around a boy from a poor home whose ambition, like most boys of his age, is to become a successful Nigerian and to help his parents and siblings to rise above poverty.

Many years later, the boy discovers that life is full of challenges, which can be surmounted through education and by reading. He learns to tackle every challenge head-on and handles every obstacle thrown his way because he made books his companion.

A dance drama performed by Proud Africa Roots Production, which left the children thrilled and screaming with excitement, was part of the programme of the event. Some of the values of good leadership, which the children upheld during the session, included service, hard work, team work, integrity, patriotism and love.

Speaking with journalists after the event, the Executive Director, Marketing and Communication, FAMFA Oil, Mr. Rotimi Alakija said the firm aimed at building a foundation that is focused on education. The purpose, he added, was to bring the joy of reading to children, especially in primary and secondary schools.

“We are trying to inspire a new generation of Nigerian children through reading. Reading should be enjoyable and not traumatic. It should be a fantasy. Reading is something that children should be able to learn something from. Without education, things will continue to fall apart.

“Nigeria has a lot of out-of-school children. We want to try to do our part to keep them in school and to keep them interested in education. The best way to keep them interested is with books and stories,” he said.

Alakija added that FAMFA Oil had decided to promot the reading culture amongst school children because of the need to emphasise the importance of education to national development.

“Education is important and so are our stories. Without our stories we lose our sense of identity. Our identity is important because it makes us who we are in the world,” he said.

He gave the assurance that the book reading event would be made an annual programme. “As long as FAMFA is still in operation in this country , we will continue to do this. This is not a one off thing. It is something that will continue,” he said.

Also, commenting on the event, Mrs. Naza Alakija noted that the reading session was inspiring for the children and the readers. She said, “It is really amazing to see how, 11-year-old a child could author such a good book. But, it is always good to start somewhere, develop a platform where other people can be inspired, whether you work in a local library, in a bank or wherever. You can contribute to children and help those who don’t have the opportunities that other children have. I think it is inspiring, not only for the children, but also about inspiring other people to get involved and see what part they can play.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]