Private varsity graduates perform better during recruitment —Don
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

A Professor of Psychology at the University of Ibadan, Prof Benjamin Ehigie, has said that from his experience with recruiting for organisations, graduates from the private universities have surpassed expectations in the workplace.

He made this known while delivering a lecture titled, Branding yourself and your university among others at the maiden matriculation of 79 students of the Precious Cornerstone University in Ibadan, Oyo State, a faith-based institution established by the Sword of The Spirit Ministries.

While charging the students to improve their self-esteem, Ehigie said, “My experience during the recruitment exercise for different corporate organisations has shown that the quality or knowledge displayed by the graduates from private universities is the best chance the institution has to be marketed or otherwise.

“I also noticed that many fresh graduates from the private universities have surpassed expectations in the workplace. The place of self concept, self esteem, self image, self efficacy and self imagery cannot be over-emphasised if you new students, in your various courses of study, intend to represent this university well in public and before recruiters.”

The Vice-Chancellor of PCU, Prof. Julius Oloke, also noted that private universities needed to provide sound and quality education for Nigerian students as many public universities were overpopulated with inadequate facilities for proper training of the students.

According to him, many of the students who attend private universities are not only smarter but they embrace challenges differently when compared to their colleagues in public institutions.

“This is because in private universities like ours, extra effort is put into the training of students, with entrepreneurship having a special emphasis. We not only see our students as our children who deserve nothing the best, but also labour day and night to see that they can compete favourably with their counterparts from anywhere in the world.”

On his part, the Promoter of PCU, Bishop Francis Oke, in his remark congratulated the management, parents and students of the institution, as he assured them that the vision to make the institution a world class one would be vigorously pursued and achieved in no distant time.

Also, at the ceremony, the acting Registrar of PCU, Dr Pedetin Afolabi, said the school was concluding arrangements to award scholarships to qualified and indigent students in the ongoing 2018/2019 academic session.

She said the institution was calling on qualified and interested indigent students with the necessary requirements to apply for the scholarship examination on the institution’s website.

According to her, the scholarship was part of the institution’s Corporate Social Responsibility and a way of ensuring qualitative education gets to brilliant indigent students without financial means.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]