Polls: JAMB fixes mock exams for March 23
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board on Monday said it had fixed the 2019 Mock Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination for Saturday, March 23.

The board had earlier scheduled the mock examination to hold on February 23, but it was forced to postpone the exercise because of the rescheduled presidential and National Assembly elections.

JAMB added that it rescheduled the 2019 UTME which was supposed to start from March 16 to March 23 for the over 1.8million registered candidates.

The board, in a release issued by the Head of Public Affairs, Dr Fabian Benjamin, said that the new date for the examination was now March 23, and candidates were expected to print their notification slips from Wednesday, March 6.

Benjamin added that contrary to insinuations, the scores of the mock examination would not be added to the actual UTME, as the exercise was solely to “ascertain the readiness of the system and to appraise the candidates’ preparedness for the main examination.”

He said, “The JAMB has slated March 23 for the conduct of the 2019 Mock exercise. Candidates are by this information urged to begin the printing of their Mock Examination Notification slips from March 6.

“The mock examination was introduced in 2017 to give candidates the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the conduct of a Computer-Based Test, particularly, candidates who are not conversant with the use of computers.

“The board will not want candidates to be at a disadvantaged position, hence the introduction of mock examination and other processes that would help the candidates during the examination. The board equally introduced nine keys without a mouse for candidates to use the computer with ease.

“The board also uses the mock exercise to ascertain the readiness of its system and to appraise the candidates’ preparedness for the main examination. This clarification becomes necessary because of insinuations from some quarters that marks from the mock examination will be added to scores obtained in the main examination. We enjoin all candidates to jealously guard all their details pertaining to the 2019 UTME/Direct Entry.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]