Be proactive during physiotherapy training, Don urges students
Tare Youdeowei

The Dean of the Faculty of Basic Medical and Health Sciences of Bowen University, Iwo, Osun, Prof. Matthew Olaogun, has said that when students studying physiotherapy go for industrial training, they should be allowed to perform preventive, curative and rehabilitative roles, as they are crucial to producing well rounded graduates.

He made this known last Sunday in statement where he disclosed that the university was repositioning to ensure it produced graduates that would be viable in the global market.

Olaogun, a professor of physiotherapy and former lecturer at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, said that one of the techniques used to make the students ready for the global market included exposing them to community work outside school, mostly during long holidays.

“Our students who are studying physiotherapy, for example, go to facilities outside formal medical settings, such as rehabilitation centres, sport centres etc., even those on the Students’ Industrial Work Experience programme also go to industries. They perform preventive, curative and rehabilitative roles mostly. Bowen is the first private university to run physiotherapy in Nigeria and the first set is expected to graduate this year.

“We are insisting these standards because we are determined to ensure that our core values, centred on a Christ-like character, entrepreneurship, creativity, innovativeness and social responsibility, are not compromised in anyway.

We are pursuing academic excellence by running market-driven courses, promoting creative thinking, a positive entrepreneurship drive and good character for all our students.

That is why we teach our physiotherapy students what people could do to prevent stroke, industrial accidents and injuries. Ours is to produce graduates for the global market. That is why we have also intensified linkages with relevant institutions in and outside the country. We want to make Bowen a global university,” Olaogun said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]