Ministry cautions pupils against taking drugs to boost performance
Tare Youdeowei

The Federal Ministry of Education has advised pupils to resist any pressure to use illicit substances to enhance their performance during sporting activities.

The ministry made the call through the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mr Sonny Echono, on Saturday at the 99th annual Inter-House Sports of King’s College in Yaba, Lagos.

Echono, who was represented by the Director of Basic and Secondary Education in the ministry, Dr Lami Amodu, said sports should promote discipline, team spirit and healthy rivalry as well as national and international peace, therefore, pupils had no need to take illicit substances to enhance their performance.

“It is in line with the foregoing reasons that the Federal Ministry of Education has continued to encourage sporting activities such as the one we are witnessing here today. A strong spirit of competitiveness is expected. As young athletes, you may feel the pressure of going against your friends to pick up the crown. There, your character will be tested and your friendship will be put to test.

“However it feels, bear in mind that the drive to win is a key factor in life and the means through which you achieve success is important. Dare to achieve a clean win; do not succumb to the pressure to cheat or engage in the use of any substance to enhance your performance,” Echono admonished.

He also said the World Anti- Doping Agency and the Nigeria Olympic Committee seriously discouraged all forms of cheating in the various sports.

Echono added, “Nigeria is working hard to ensure that Unity Colleges and other schools would continue to organise inter-house sports competitions devoid of any form of cheating, as such the spirit of sportsmanship must be cultivated and encouraged amongst pupils.

“Sports has been recognised worldwide as an integral part of formal education and it is due to its invaluable contribution to the physical, mental and emotional capabilities of the individual athlete. When the faculties are sharpened through sports, application to studies become relatively easy, but when they are not, academic work becomes drudgery. This explains why the National Policy on Education included physical and health education in the curriculum at the primary and secondary levels.”

The Principal of King’s College, Mr Isaac Kolawole, appealed to the ministry to consider landscaping the sports fields and upgrading facilities at both campuses of the college.

He said, “Our both campuses are below sea level and we are always threatened by flood. There is also the need for some landscaping of the fields as this will provide a better platform for sporting activities to thrive. All the courts are dilapidated with cracks, just as our gymnasium requires modern equipment.

“I know government is doing a lot to improve facilities in unity colleges across the country, especially here in our school, but we still want to appeal for more to be done on the structures as they are getting weak; judging from the age of the college.”

Kolawole added that since King’s College was a heritage school and a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization site, all hands had to be on deck to ensure that the school continued to occupy its position as the foremost unity school in the country.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]