Nigerian teachers to be rewarded with N4m
The Meadow Hall Foundation, a non-governmental organisation that partners individuals, public and private organisations to implement sustainable initiatives that support teachers, pupils, schools and communities, is set to reward teachers with N4m in the third edition of its Inspirational Educator Awards and Education Convention.

According to the founder of the foundation, Mrs Kehinde Nwani, in a statement on Thursday the foundation focuses on training and equipping teachers, rewarding outstanding and inspirational teachers, as well as school leaders who go out of their way to better the lives of the pupils.

She said, “The merit-based award is aimed at elevating the teaching profession and motivating teachers and school leaders to continue to strive for excellence in their profession. These awards will go a long way in rewarding the hard work of exceptional teachers and school leaders, as well as inspiring others to continue to strive for excellence in the teaching profession.”

While calling for the nomination of teachers who teach in public or private primary or secondary schools before March 15, the foundation disclosed that the Inspirational School Leader of the year will receive a cash award of N2m while the Inspirational Teacher of the year get N1m. The two runners-up for both categories will also receive the sum of N500,000.00 each.

On the Education Convention, Nwani said it would provide an opportunity for teachers, school owners, parents, government officials, policy-makers and other stakeholders to gain fresh perspectives on pertinent educational issues from interactions with teachers and educational experts.

With the theme, Accelerating National Development through Education, she disclosed that the convention is expected to draw about 1,000 stakeholders and is set to hold May 4 at the Landmark Event Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]