Quota system, inadequate funding crippling education sector —Director
Tare Youdeowei

The adoption of the quota system, which guarantees the admission of poorly performing pupils, and inadequate funding of education are crippling the sector, the Director of Grace Schools in Gbagada, Lagos, Mrs Tokunbo Edun, has said.

She spoke in a statement on Thursday where she also kicked against leaving primary education in the hands of local governments.

Recalling the days when a primary six pupil could teach a class, Edun said, “The education system in Nigeria has worsened since independence. While growing up, someone with a primary six certificate could teach. Graduates today are half baked as some of them cannot communicate well in English. The quota system adopted in the country is horrible. It guarantees the admission of poorly performed pupils.

“Inadequate funding is also affecting the standard of education in the country. Infrastructural facilities are not being improved upon by the government. The government has to provide funding but it must supervise the funds to ensure proper allocation and judicious spending.

“For instance, in the last 10 years, Rwanda has overhauled its education sector; 60 per cent of their private schools have closed down due to the adequate funding of the education sector by the government. In Nigeria, however, private schools have taken over the responsibility of the government.”

While decrying the over taxation of private schools, Edun said, “Private schools have better facilities than public schools and since private schools are actually doing what public schools should be doing, there should be a strong partnership between government and private schools. The government should stop harassing and overtaxing us. For instance, what is the quality assurance policy? Private schools can boast of more solid facilities than public school, but all sorts of multiple taxes are being forced on private schools. The government should be more friendly in its approach to private education stakeholders.

“There should be better partnership and collaboration between private educators and the government.

“There should be specific projects to promote growth and development. The government should also focus on upgrading infrastructural facilities. The foundation of everything is important. It takes huge efforts to correct the fundamental errors in our system. However, it should be noted that leaving primary education in the hands of local governments is not appropriate as the office holders do not pay adequate attention to the improvement of the quality of education.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]