Cross-disciplinary scholarships essential for national development – Don
Tare Youdeowei

The Dean, Faculty of Humanities, Management and Social Sciences of the Augustine University in Ilara-Epe, Lagos State, Prof. Aderemi Raji-Oyelade, has called on academic institutions in Nigeria to popularise the potential of cross-disciplinary scholarships to boost national development.

He said it had become necessary for the country to overcome the limitations of over-specialisation and maximise cross-disciplinary opportunities.

Raji-Oyelade, who is a visiting professor of English Language from the University of Ibadan, Oyo State, stated this while delivering the fourth matriculation lecture of Augustine University themed, STEM to STEAM: Advancing the potential of cross-disciplinary literacies.

At the ceremony where 71 students were matriculated, the dean said, “Specialisation is necessary. But at its worst example, specialisation breeds the indiscipline of mutually exclusive disciplines. The character of cross-disciplinary practice is that one discipline illuminates the other in a concentric, mutually functional way that intellectual literacy is achieved across and within the disciplines.

“How do we popularise the potential of cross-disciplinary scholarships for national development? How can we overcome the limitations of over-specialisation and maximise the advantages of it for national development? How do we maximise the dialogue of the discipline as a necessary means of attaining intellectual fullness?

“In this century, it is those who are capable of crossing the boundaries of the disciplines that will make the difference. It is those who possess the ability of disciplinary transgressions that can interact beyond the borders of their own specialisations, those who embrace the advancement and deployment of technology in education and those who are not afraid to embrace the qualitative power of the imagination even when they are engaged in the empirical world of the scientific. The promotion of scientific inventions without artistic and humanistic interventions is a movement towards mechanistic chaos, what can be imagined as progressive backwardness,” Raji-Oyelade

The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Steve Afolami, in his address, acknowledged the school’s proprietors for giving the management freedom to operate according to the best practices recognised internationally and as stipulated by the National Universities Commission. A situation, he said, was not common with private university owners.

At the ceremony, awards for academic excellence were presented to 32 students to foster high academic standards and encourage healthy competition in students.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]