‘TU will pursue entrepreneurship-focused education’
Tare Youdeowei

The Chairman, Board of Trustees of the Trinity University, Laloko, Ogun State, Pastor Samuel Olatunji, has said that the newly established institution seeks to produce morally upright and entrepreneurship-focused graduates in the country.

He made this known on Thursday at a briefing held on the institution’s campus in Yaba, Lagos, as he disclosed that the university was set up by the Trinity Education and Development Foundation.

Olatunji also said the university was born out of the desire to provide a tertiary institution where immorality would not exist and where a sound curriculum, committed and competent teachers, moral and spiritual training, and excellent outcomes would be found.

He said, “On January 9, 2019, the Federal Executive Council, after its meeting, announced the approval of Trinity University. We have established Trinity University with the vision to be a world-class institution of higher learning that combines academic excellence with high moral and ethical standards in the pursuit of entrepreneurship-focused education. We seek to provide instructional, research and public service programmes appropriate to a university of high standing that is a centre of academic excellence. The university shall provide a technology and management-oriented learning environment for the production of highly skilled graduates.”

The chairman added that TU would stand out because the owners had solid experience and a track record in education.

He continued, “Our curriculum is visionary and robust to make our students well-equipped with employable skills for winning in the work place, trade skills for successful entrepreneurship and life skills to cope and adapt to real life. We orientate our students with a strong sense of community relevance and responsibility, to serve and to bless humanity, wherever they are. Trinity University as a Christian institution is value-driven in all ramifications such that our certificate will be a statement in competence, character and commitment.”

“In October 1995, Trinity International College opened her doors to the pioneering students to build lives in partnership with Christ. In January 2006, we went into the primary education sector and set up Trinity Foundation School. The concerns in the early 1990s which inspired the founding of Trinity Schools, have, very sadly, gradually worsened since then. As a result, we came to the conclusion that we should have a presence in the tertiary sector to complete the ‘tripod ’ of our destiny – primary, secondary and university, the last being a massively different kind of challenge. We set to work in eight remarkable years and finally.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]