Don urges African countries to embrace biotechnology
Dayo Ojerinde

A Professor of Biochemistry, Shalom Chinedu, has called on Nigeria and other African countries to embrace the use of biotechnology to solve some of the problems facing the continent.

Chinedu, while delivering the 18th inaugural lecture of the Covenant University in Ota, Ogun State, themed, From evolution to revolution: Biochemical disruptions and emerging pathways for securing Africa’s future on Friday, said that biotechnology could trigger quick and enduring progress in Africa.

“Modern biotechnology has become a tool for economic growth and for tackling the multifaceted challenges facing mankind, particularly in the area of energy supply, food production, disease diagnosis and treatment, as well as environmental concerns like pollution, erosion, drought, and desertification.

“The 21st century is indeed the age of Biology. Today, biotechnology is leading a sudden new biological revolution. It has brought mankind to a world of engineered products based in the natural world instead of the chemical processes, and it has taken humans far beyond ever known depths of understanding of the chemical and physical basis of life and matter,” Chinedu said.

He noted that biotechnology had a great commercial potential because of its scope of activity which covered the entire spectrum of human life.

“Biotechnology has the potential to improve agriculture, boost food supply and counter famine, environmental degradation, diseases, as well as poverty. It can also trigger industrialisation and rapid economic growth in Africa, just to give the continent a respectable place in the world.

“Africa must rise from her state of cold indifference and ignorance to tap into the huge opportunities offered by the biotechnological advances that have radically altered the long, held norms and assumptions in science and technology, as well as impacting the global economy in a manner the world has never known,” Chinedu said.

The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Aderemi Atayero, said the inaugural lectures were organised by the university to seek a solution to the myriad problems facing the country and the continent.

Atayero added that the university was committed to seeking solutions to the problems facing the country with profound research.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]