Over 400 schools to feature in National Schools Fair
Over 400 schools across the country are set to feature in this year’s edition of the National Schools Fair, which is a showcase of the nation’s educational institutions, products and services.

This was made known in a statement signed by the Event Director, National Schools Fair, Mr Steve Ike, who said the fair was conceived with a view to matching educational institutions with parents and prospective pupils looking to gain admission in the 2019/2020 academic year.

Ike said, “The organisers have identified seven special considerations when parents are looking for the right school for their children; location, size, educational philosophy, curriculum, faculty, fees and facilities. Based on these, the National Schools Fair will provide parents with a unique opportunity of a one-stop-shop of schools to get the right fit for their children. The fair, expected to be graced by over 5,000 admission-seeking pupils and their parents, will present prospects for educational institutions to showcase and market educational opportunities and admit prospective students.

“The event will also showcase other educational products and services like educational loans, insurance, school management software, school security systems, school supplies and related products. Aside from exhibitions, the fair will feature a series of seminars and workshops aimed at updating school owners, administrators, teachers and non-teaching staff with the latest trends and body of knowledge that will assist them to better perform their duties.

“At the fair, parents and pupils will receive advice and information about education-related products and services; loans, scholarships, insurance, learning aids and technology. This is in addition to free education and career guidance from experts,” Ike said.

He added that the fair, which will be open to attendees for free, was scheduled for Saturday, March 23, at the Eko Atlantic City Waterfront, Lagos.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]