Pupils record 72.79% success in Nov/Dec technical exams
Adekunle Peter, Benin

About 72.79 per cent of the 45,307 pupils who enrolled for the November/December 2018 National Business Certificate, National Technical Certificate and the Advanced National Technical Certificate examinations scored five credits and above in technical subjects, including English and Mathematics.

This was made known by the Registrar and Chief Executive Officer of the National Business and Technical Education Board, Prof. Ifeoma Isiogo-Abanihe, on Wednesday in Benin, the Edo State capital, as she announced the release of results of the examinations.

Isiogo-Abanihe disclosed that out of the 45,307 candidates who enrolled for the examinations nationwide, 40,848 were registered for Ordinary Level Craft Certificate examinations, while 4,459 enrolled for Master Craft or A Level examinations.

She said, “At the Ordinary Level Craft Certificate examination, the enrolment of candidates is distributed across 17 engineering trades, seven construction trades, among others. It is important to note that out of the 8,191 candidates that sat for Trades examinations, 3,898 were certified at Ordinary Level.”

The registrar added that just 1.4 per cent of the 44,603 candidates were involved in examination malpractice, a slight reduction from the number of the previous year as efforts were being made to check malpractices.

“It is gratifying to note that the modalities put in place by the board to check examination malpractice are yielding good results,” she said.

While commending the Federal Government and state governments for the increased interest in technical education, Isiogo-Abanihe added, “It is important to observe here, considering the moderate improvement in candidates’ performance in the NABTEB certificate examinations just released, that the renewed interest of the Federal Government and a number of state governments in technical and vocational education may have started making an impact in terms of attracting candidates to NABTEB examinations.

“This is in line with the recent policy direction of the government as technology, science and technical vocational education and training constitute one of the major pillars of the ministerial strategic plan of the Federal Ministry of Education. We are determined to improve on this increase in enrolment for our various examinations through aggressive sensitisation and advocacy activities.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]