Parents protest hike in tuition fee at Ogun school
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

Parents whose children attend the Kings Kiddies Nursery and Primary school in Abeokuta, the Ogun state capital, on Thursday staged a peaceful protest over an increase in tuition fee and other charges by the management of the school.

The aggrieved parents, acting under the aegis of the Parent-Teacher Association of the school, argued that the increase would restrict access to education.

Speaking with our correspondent, a parent, Mr Bamgbola Raphel, said the management of the school increased the fee from N29,000 to N42,000 without consulting the parents.

He also said that after much persuasion, the proprietor deducted N7,000 from the tuition fee, leaving it at N35,000.

“After the school management increased the tuition fee without our consent, they sent our children away from class this morning. We have two options, either they accept our children and seize their report s at the end of the term or refund our money.

“We have a PTA in this school, yet the proprietor doesn’t recognise it. Ordinarily, the school management should hold a meeting with the PTA before increasing the fee. They should tell us why they decided to increase the tuition fee. But the proprietor and the director of the school have refused to talk to us.”

Another parent, Ebele Catherine, said, “During the last meeting we held, we agreed that the fee would be increased after five years from their last date of increment, but they increased the school fee when it was just three years and eight months. We have already written a letter to the Ministry of Education and a copy has been circulated to all parents. Even if this is a private school there should be some cautionary measures.”

When contacted for his reaction, the school’s proprietor, Mr Shounde, refused to talk to the press, saying the situation was under control.

Meanwhile, some policemen were sighted at the school gate preventing the parents from entering the premises.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]