My intention was to do better than I did in my first degree – Ebuetse
Mercy Ebuetse made high distinction from the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Western Kentucky University, United States, where she made 4.0/4.0 grade scale. In this interview with TUNDE AJAJA, Ebuetse, who is also a publisher, talks about her days in school and the choices she made that helped her education

When you started for your master’s degree programme, do you recall the first things you did to ensure you would have an outstanding performance?

I had a definite goal when I resumed and I knew I had to specifically work towards having good grades from the first day I arrived. What I did was to ask questions about the course from my seniors in the department. What I got from people were a lot of negative reviews, like how hard it was and how some people changed departments. But, a Ghanaian friend who had graduated from the department with a 4.0 Grade Point Average told me it wasn’t hard if I put in the work required. And that was what I did.

Is there any specific thing that inspired such timely and aggressive plan/approach?

I have always believed that if excellence is possible, why not go for it. I have always wanted to make my parents proud and I knew I had to do what was necessary to achieve that. In addition, I came to school to learn how effective systems work and after reading to understand, my grades were a proof that I had properly grasped some of these concepts. I wasn’t reading to pass, I was reading to know more about my field of study and to gradually become an authority in my field. The grades and quest for excellence only affirmed that I was on the right track. In addition, as funny as this may sound, the money paid for the programme was a motivation. We all know how expensive graduate school can be for international students. That alone was enough to inspire me to work hard.

We learnt you were the best in your class. What were the awards you won?

I won the Outstanding Graduate Student in MS Engineering Technology Management, which I think implied that I was the best. Also, I was the only one that I know of in my class of 2018 in Engineering Technology Management that graduated with 4.0 GPA. I don’t know about online students though, because we had some online students. In addition, I was awarded a grant for my capstone thesis which was eventually published. I was also a Robert J. Wurster Scholar and Lois G. & F. Dugan Montgomery scholar.

What were your most memorable moments?

Every moment is a happy one for me, but I guess getting my Graduate Research Assistant position and award in my second year as a master’s student was my happiest moment. My saddest moment was when I cried because I was unsure of what to do in one of my Project Management assignments and my friends were waiting for me to bail the group out. At that point, I wished there was someone else that would do the teaching instead of me being the teacher always. But I thank God it was for that moment and I was able to pick up again.

Were there times you were commended by any of your lecturers for your brilliance?

Yes, at the end of every presentation I made. I also received commendations for my assignments and research papers. Professors from other departments who had heard about me and my direct supervisors that I worked with on other publications had good things to say about me and that was very encouraging.

What was the course you studied in your first degree and what informed the choice?

I studied civil engineering for my first degree. I wouldn’t say it was an informed decision. I knew I wanted to be an engineer, preferably mining or marine engineer, but not so much a civil engineer. I applied to Covenant University to study petroleum engineering, but I was offered civil engineering instead. After a year, I chose to continue and I began to like the course. I concluded it didn’t matter which of the departments I graduated from, as long as I had a plan to continue in the field of engineering, which was what I had always been interested in. Now, my passion has evolved, I am currently more inclined to industrial engineering field, which is much more exciting; solving workplace problems through continuous improvement methodologies.

Looking at your studying experience at Covenant University, Ogun State and at Western Kentucky University, how would you describe both?

I would say each had their strong points. Western Kentucky University is a graduate school, so it is deemed harder. In addition, my department was one of the dreaded departments in my school due to the level of workload and the number of its high-ranking professors. We know what that means for the students there. The programme I applied for started in the United States and I felt what better place to learn it than the school. That was one of the reasons I chose the school, apart from the fact that I wanted to learn in a different environment. And now I’m happy that I have been able to collaborate with students from various parts of the world and that has broadened my approach to solving problems. However, I would say my time at Western Kentucky University was challenging but interesting because I was doing what I loved, and Covenant University had set the foundation for me. Irrespective of the volume of what I had to read, I loved doing it.

Overall, what would you ascribe your feat to?

God, a supportive family and discipline. My alma mater, Covenant University, also played a significant role in preparing me for this.

Did you also have excellent results in your previous schools?

I was always a high flyer from primary school. I once got double promotion from Nursery one to primary one. I took common entrance in primary four, but had to wait till primary five to proceed to secondary school. And I won a few awards while in secondary school. However, I wouldn’t say I performed to the my best of my ability while I was an undergraduate and that was one of the reasons why I was inspired to do more during my master’s degree programme.

Some students would like to know what your reading schedule was like. What was it like?

I think students should identify what works best for them and explore it. The first time I used the library during my undergraduate degree programme, I slept off (laughs). However, I became attuned to it, especially as a graduate student. But I would estimate my library usage to be 40 per cent (of my reading time) and this was mostly to tutor other students and when I had deadlines to meet. The remaining 60 per cent was spent at my study desk in my room. I had a whiteboard on which I wrote my weekly activities. I always prepared for my classes beforehand and there was something to read daily, whether for a class, research papers or examination. My reading schedule was arranged around my classes. If I had a class on Tuesday, I would have prepared for the class between Friday and Monday. Also, I never waited till deadline was close before I started my assignments. Besides, I was into many things at a time, so my pattern might not work for someone else. I was a Graduate Research Assistant and I was also running a digital/print magazine. So, I tried to sleep for four to five hours daily, but I might not have been consistent with that.

We learnt you represented Nigeria well during the May 2017 graduation ceremony, how many of you graduated with a first-class degree in your class?

I can’t tell how many students had 4.0 GPA, but a few of my friends were well in the range of 3.2 to 3.8 GPA and we were about 14 in my class.

You were also nominated to serve in the Graduate Council of Western Kentucky University as the Ogden College of Engineering and Sciences Graduate Student representative. Do you know why you were nominated?

I was nominated by my department and my credentials were forwarded to the OCSE. The OCSE Graduate committee selected me unanimously, based on my credentials, I presume.

What made you start an online publication?

I had been a voracious reader for some time and I guess that led to my interest in writing. Also, I wanted to put out there materials with contents that can inform the readers in a special way as opposed to what magazines are generally known for. It is also a print magazine. So, the vision of Shalom Truths Magazine is to build a community of empowered individuals to live fulfilling lives through our contents.

What are your aspirations?

I’m interested in working in the manufacturing industry, precisely the automotive industry or medical device industry. I’m working on a project for women entrepreneurs between the ages of 20 and 30. I hope when it is in full gear, I can actively help this group of people from around the world.

For students who admire you and wish to achieve what you have achieved, what would you identify as the basic things needed for academic success?

I would say discipline, effective time management, goal setting, preparedness and knowing what works for you. I believe discipline comes before every other thing; don’t procrastinate. The student syndrome as I learned in a Project Management class is procrastination. Students tend to procrastinate and as such the standard of their work is often poor. Finally, find time to help others by teaching. It helps you to master the subject.

Were you in a relationship throughout the period of the programme or did you prefer not to have any serious relationship?

Yes, I was in my very first relationship during my master’s degree programme. During my undergraduate programme, I didn’t have any relationship because I felt it would be a distraction.

What have you been doing since you graduated?

I have been freelancing and consulting for a few companies, but I’m applying for PhD in industrial engineering. I’m happy about what the future holds.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]