Ability to excel in Maths not hereditary – Don
Tare Youdeowei

A professor of Chemistry, Ezekiel Odebunmi, has faulted the myth that a pupil’s ability to excel in Mathematics or related subjects is hereditary.

Speaking during a prize-giving ceremony organised by Ambassador Schools, Ota in Ogun State, last Saturday, for the winners of The Ultimate Mathematics Ambassador Quiz Competition, Odebunmi said that parents’ unrealistic expectations, teachers’ anxiety and overemphasis on drills, were some of the factors that heightened the phobia for Mathematics among pupils in developing nations.

He said, “Mathematics has become a tool for social transformation and the transfer of ideas into reality. Its many diverse branches have useful applications upon which various fields of human endeavour hang. It permeates the whole of society and no individual or society can develop without it.

“On a personal level, Mathematics fosters social, intellectual, vocational, moral, spiritual and cultural development. At the societal level, it plays a critical role in the development of science and technology, business and industry, education, infrastructure, medical science, agriculture, living standards, culture and morals, as well as women.

“Sadly, a phobia for Mathematics exists amongst pupils, particularly in the developing and under-developed countries.

“It can be caused by teachers’ anxiety, negative classroom experiences, societal, educational and environmental factors, high stake tasks, overemphasis on drills, parents’ unrealistic expectations, school absence and the myth that ability to excel in Mathematics is hereditary.”

Odebunmi, however, offered to change the orientation of parents towards their children’s ability to learn Mathematics and the use of learner-friendly textbooks, as some of the palliative measures to end the phobia of Mathematics in pupils.

He said, “In spite of the value of Mathematics, the central and critical roles it plays in international development, it is generally perceived as difficult, abstract and dull. Therefore, mitigating the phobia requires motivating pupils, making Mathematics relevant, reviewing topics that have been treated with examples, involving parents and getting their support, as well as using learner-friendly textbooks.

“Mathematics teachers should re-examine their teaching methods. There should be fewer lectures and more pupils directed activities, which involves more discussions to make the pupils feel at home, should be employed. Teachers should adopt problem-solving methods relating to everyday life. They should go for understanding of concepts rather than memorising them. They can also encourage cooperative group discussions to boost the confidence of weak pupils.”

Also, the Chairman of Ambassador Schools, Mr Samson Osewa, while delivering his welcome address, said the vision of the competition was to eliminate the phobia for Mathematics among pupils.

“TUMA is envisioned to eliminate the phobia for Mathematics, which is prevalent in the grassroots. We wish to see every child possess the problem-solving skills inherent in the calculative nature of Mathematics, which is inevitable in our daily lives. Propelled by the obligation to make it rewarding, our mission is to provide the platform for every child to express their potentials via the merger of calculation and speed.

“As an institution, we recognise that inculcating strong mathematical skills during childhood is the foundation for attainment of prominence in life. Consequently, the TUMA vision is as pertinent today as when it was conceived,” he said.

About 400 schools participated in the first stage of The Ultimate Mathematics Ambassador Quiz competition. The top 50 schools proceeded to the second stage, while the best 10 got to the finals.

The first prize of N500,000 went to 10-year-old Ngozi Madumere, her teacher got N150,000, while her school, Giant Stride Nursery and Primary School in Ifo, Ogun State, got a laptop computer, printer and textbooks.

The second prize of N300,000 went to nine-year-old Ikenna Enwere, while his teacher went home with N100,000 and his school got a laptop computer and textbooks.

The third prize winner, Olawale Hann, bagged N200,000, his teacher was rewarded with N75,000 while his school got a printer and textbooks.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]