Our educational system not encouraging excellence but mediocrity-Elizabeth Ikem
A former Provost of the Nigerian Institute of Journalism, Elizabeth Ikem, speaks with JOY MARCUS about her tenure at the institution and other issues

You were the Provost of the Nigerian Institute of Journalism for more than 14 years. What kept you there for that long?

I served in NIJ for 14 years and five months. For me, my time in NIJ was not a job but a divine assignment. The Governing Council, then led by Mallam Ismaila Isa, and a host of others, motivated me with their goodwill in ensuring that they give students quality education, and not for personal gains. They helped me in my assignment because I didn’t have to worry about whether they had hidden agendas or not. So, it gave me a good platform to work. When I joined NIJ in 2000, the school was closed but it was growing and when something is growing, it becomes dynamic and you must respond to the dynamism. But in the case of NIJ, nobody responded and they began to issue certificates that the institution did not have approval to award. Over time, students began to ask questions because if you give them Higher National Diploma certificates, they should be able to go for the National Youth Service Corps programme just like their counterparts in other institutions. Eventually, trouble started and it continued until the students became so restive that the institution had to be shut. I thank God for the Mallam Ismaila-led council that knew it was time to revamp the school and put it on the right footing for it to get accreditation from the right authorities. NIJ is not a pushover because it has groomed so many people over the years. I have met great people who greeted me with excitement that they were in the school at different times. My aim was to reposition NIJ to gain the footing that it has today.

How long was the school shut?

The school was shut for four years. It was a tough assignment and the first four years were used to reposition the school. While we were doing that, we didn’t open the school, but we had some restive student troubling us. However, when I look back today, I thank God. We worked with the council and tried to raise money because funding was a big challenge. We spoke to managing directors and chief executive officers of companies who helped the institution because the school has a reputation. Fortunately, we were able to get the approval for the institution to be reopened. We met the standard that the National Board for Technical Education put in place and we continued to work hard in making the school great because we were on the path of building a new generation of journalists that would bring change to the industry. When it was time to go, I was satisfied because I believed that I had finished my assignment and had done what I needed to do in the school.

While you were the provost, did you also lecture?

Yes. I lectured on effective writing. The course is not offered at degree level but we do it occasionally and it is open to anybody. I found out that many times we have ideas but don’t know how to put them down. Thank God for audio-visuals, but what is written down is more prominent and powerful. There are books that were written many years ago that you will still find truths embedded in them. A writer does not write for himself but for his readers. He should be able to pass his or her message across and be understood.

Were there other innovations that you introduced to the institution?

We looked into the library; because I remember that the NBTE said we had one of the best libraries at that time in terms of communication materials. Anytime I travelled, I spent my own money to buy books for the library and we ensured that the environment was conducive. When I came in, the school was like a wilderness. We cleaned everywhere and make the school a proper institution. I know that some students were not too happy with some of the innovations but it was for their own good. The institution is non-residential and to ensure adequate security against the backdrop of violence that was increasing in tertiary institutions, we had to fix resumption and closing times. That helped us in controlling the operations of the school to a point; and we introduced a parent-lecturer forum where the parents can ask lecturers about the performance of their children.

What is your view on the state of education in Nigeria?

Someone said the educational system in the country has fallen but I don’t buy that because there have been changes in policies, and it depends on how we tailor them to suit us. Aside from theoretical knowledge, we also need practical sessions. I think I like what they are trying to do now, which is the art of entrepreneurship. However, while doing that, we should not forget integrity, because whatever we have must be earned. There has to be a way to deal with the kind of malpractices that are going on in our educational sector. We have good policies but who are the people driving them? For instance, if a student is supposed to pass a certain course and his teacher tells him to pay for marks, how do you expect such student to be serious with his or her studies?

These days, many people go abroad to study. What is your take on this?

People go abroad to study because if they do well, the lecturers will grade them accordingly and if they don’t do well, the lecturers will tell them and encourage them to do better. The educational system in the Western world is able to check and balance itself. And the students can also assess their lecturers to know if a lecturer is giving his best. I am not saying that their system is perfect but to a large extent, there is evidence of efforts to do well and have a fair educational environment.

Honestly, I don’t know how we came to where we are now but I hope we go back to where we were before because I didn’t study abroad and in my time, the system was great. We had to work hard to earn our marks.

Do you think the system is encouraging excellence?

The system is not encouraging excellence; rather, it is encouraging mediocrity. If you want to do well, they will tell you that you are a fool. In fact, some people will tell you not to stress yourself when you can easily pay your way through. Look at the professor that was disgraced recently. Things like that make me wonder why a man who laboured to earn his professorship would ask someone else to do less. I didn’t buy my certificate; I worked really hard to get it; so, I cannot tell anyone to do less. The system should ensure that it allows excellence to thrive.

Why do you think a lot of youths are unserious?

It is because nobody is talking to them. Young people will always be young people. There is foolishness in the hearts of young people because they don’t know otherwise. They prefer to sleep than to work hard. If we don’t show them the proper way, they will not know the alternative. However, we, who know better, should guide them at home and in school. It is so unfortunate that the parents encourage their children to engage in examination malpractices these days.

It is the collective responsibility of the students, teachers and parents to rectify this problem because there are no two ways to success.

What’s your educational qualification?

I have a PhD in Communications and Language Art from the University of Ibadan.

How do you relax?

I am such a busy person but when I want to relax, I spend a lot of time in the presence of God praying because I find it very refreshing. Also, I love to write. I presented my books some weeks ago on my 60th birthday. One of the books is a collection of my inspirational thoughts while in the presence of God and the other is a professional book because I am also a pastor. The book is my contribution to the art of writing. It is an author’s guide to learning to write effectively.

How do you feel at 60?

I am filled with excitement and joy. I am a twin; so, I and my twin celebrated together. I am so grateful to God because my twin just retired as the head of radiology at the National Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi, Lagos. God has been good to us because we are hale and hearty. I remember in those days whenever I saw anyone who was 60 years old, I used to wonder if I would get to that age.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]