I was determined to set a new record in my department – Komolafe, AAUA first-class graduate
The best graduating student of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko, Ondo State, in the 2016/2017 academic session, Komolafe Olorunwa, who graduated with 4.74 CGPA from the Department of Science Education, shares the secret to his success in this interview with TUNDE AJAJA

Graduating with a first-class degree is no mean feat; would you describe that as your happiest moment in school?

Yes, (it was); that moment when I was announced as the overall best graduating student of my set and called to give the valedictory speech. That was a moment I won’t forget, especially remembering what I went through to make that dream a reality. After delivering the valedictory speech, my parents jumped up happily where they were and rushed forward to meet me. The extent of their joy was noticeable and it seemed like they were on top of the world because of me. They were evidently overjoyed. I guess it’s the dream of any child to make their parents happy, and I’m so happy I did that for mine. It was all a beautiful experience.

What were the awards you won during your convocation?

Clement Bamiduro Prize for the Overall Best Graduating Student; Vice-Chancellor Prize for the Overall Best Graduating Student and the Best Graduating Student in the Faculty of Education.

Did it come to you as a surprise that you emerged as the overall best in your set or did you know that all along?

Actually, I knew that I would graduate with a first-class degree, judging from my performance, but emerging as the overall best graduating student of my set came as a surprise to me, and I thank God for that. I aimed for it and God made it possible. It was not easy but at the same time it wasn’t too difficult, especially if you are focused and determined. When you are determined on getting something, nothing becomes too difficult in achieving your goals. You could say I worked hard and God crowned my effort. In fact, when I told my mum about it, she started singing praises to God.

Did they know you were an exceptional student all along?

They knew because I used to update them about my result and they always prayed for me. So, like myself, they knew graduating with a first-class was likely but they didn’t see it coming that I would be the best in my set.

You mentioned that you had some challenges as an undergraduate. What were those challenges?

I had serious financial challenges. I had to organise tutorials for some students and I used to go and teach them at home. I also took up a part-time work in a private school just to fend for myself. There were other challenges even in leading my class as the class representative, but thank God it wasn’t all a waste. I have something tangible to show for those efforts and the sacrifices I made.

Does it mean you didn’t have much free time?

I didn’t have much free time, but whenever there was an opportunity to have fun, I ensured that I made maximum use of such because it wasn’t something that came regularly. Those other things I did to raise money for my education took a large part of my free time but I still had some time to do other things. I was involved in some social and sporting activities. For example, I was a two-time honourable member of the Students’ Representative Council of the National Universities Education Students’ Association. At a time, I was the Caucus Leader for my department (Science Education) in the NUESA SRC House of Parliament.

Given the many things you were doing at the same time; academic work, school politics, sports and of course being a private tutor and working in a private school, what was your typical day like as an undergraduate?

Every morning, provided I didn’t have early morning lecture, I tried to eat before going to school, especially because I didn’t have free money to spend on buying junks. I would go to the classroom from home and attend to other necessary things in school, like meetings, if any. On my return home, I would go for evening tutorials and then return to my room to rest. I always believe in having enough sleep because by doing so, you would have enough time to rest your brain. I never went for night classes; I believed I could always read at home and rest when it was time for that. Also, I wasn’t the type to have a reading schedule; I read anytime it was convenient and necessary. I believe students should stick to what works for them and not try to copy others. Some students prefer to use the library and it helps them but I hardly went there. Rather, I took advantage of the volume of materials online. I would say I’m more disposed to electronic resources than printed materials. And I surmise that if students could explore the materials online, it would be better for them.

It’s common now for some employers to say some graduates are not employable due to the absence of some skills and things as basic as communicating fluently in English. As someone who studied education, should we blame the teachers or the students?

I believe that elementary education has a lot to do with fluency when it comes to good communication skills. However, even when the foundation is not so strong, the students can always do their best by learning more and developing themselves.

As a graduate of science education, why do you think students fail?

I believe students fail because of lack of right attitude, especially towards their education. If students should cultivate the right attitude towards their education, they would surely excel. I believe that the choices we make as individuals shape the outcomes of our endeavours, so if we know what we want, we are a step closer to achieving it. But, if there is no clear destination or expectation, anything that comes would be good enough, and that may not end well.

Have you always wanted to study science education or you simply embraced what you were offered?

As a child, I wanted to become a medical doctor. That was central to the aspirations of many of us as children. But, over time, things changed. It was never my intention to study any educational course but I had to settle for what the school offered me, and I did that in good faith. I didn’t want to stay at home any longer then, so I felt I should accept the course I was given and maybe change the course along the line. But, over time, I fell in love with the course and didn’t even want to change it again. The course has a lot to do with adding value to people’s lives. We all passed through classrooms and I felt I could be a part of the process that educate future leaders, because the course is meant to prepare teachers that will handle science-related subjects at the upper basic school (Basic 7 to 9).

To an extent, people look down on education courses and so some people may view your course as a second grade course. Were there times people almost made you feel inferior?

It never happened. My belief is that we are all in different fields of study and what will make someone feel inferior is if they cannot defend their field while others are talking. Besides, I don’t think we should derive our conviction or courage from what people say. It should come from within; else, we would be easily manipulated. I love the course and I’m proud of my choices. Despite the fact that I didn’t choose the course myself, I developed interest in it, deliberately so, and it was from my first year that I started getting exceptional results. In my first year, I had A’s in almost all my courses. I had one or two B’s and C’s.

What role did the schools you previously attended play in your performance in university?

I always performed well in those schools and I was always among the best, both in my elementary and secondary schools. I sat the West African Senior School Certificate Examination three times and I took the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination twice. Although, I passed the UTME the two times I took the exam, it wasn’t easy having my complete O level result. However, I knew that I had to put in more efforts in the university and I’m glad it paid off.

Were you told stories by anyone about how difficult it could be to graduate with a first-class degree?

Yes, and it was in my first year. I was told that there had never been a first-class graduate from my unit. That served as a challenge to me and I was determined to break the record and set a new one. By the grace of God, I was able to do so.

Would you say you did anything differently from others to graduate with a first-class degree?

Yes, a lot of things. But the main thing was that my commitment to my education always came first, and that was helpful. And despite that, I played when there was time for it and when it was time to study, I did it with all my might. In fact, to some people, I never appeared like a very serious-minded person.

When you were young, were there times you were urged to be more serious?

At a point in my life, I was urged to get serious. When I was having challenge passing my West African Senior School Certificate Examination, my elder siblings saw me as unserious and they tried to urge me to read almost all the time (laughs).

For those considering a career in this course, what are the prospects?

The course is basically to train teachers for upper basic school. So, being in this course means you must love teaching.

Where would you like to work?

I would definitely love to teach because that is what I have been trained to do and I’m proud of teaching. But then, I would not rule out the possibilities of working elsewhere.

Did you get any kind of reward from your parents or all you got was a pat on the back?

I didn’t stay too long with my parents but whenever I visited them and I told them how I was doing academically, they always told me well done and they sang my praises. They also prayed for me.

What are your aspirations?

My aspiration is to be successful in life and I believe that my future is very bright by God’s grace.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]