Group trains pupils in malaria prevention
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

A humanitarian organisation, Mace Club of Nigeria, has trained some secondary school pupils in Ogun State on ways to prevent Malaria, as part of its effort to eradicate deadly diseases in the state.

The training, held at the Abeokuta Grammar School, Idi-Aba, had in attendance pupils from the six schools that qualified for the grand finale of the organisation’s debate and quiz competition.

The participating secondary schools included Taidob College, Asero, Abeokuta ; Baptist Boys High School, Saje, Abeokuta ; Remo Secondary School, Sagamu; Mayflower Secondary School, Ikenne ; Methodist School, Arigbajo, Ifo and Alaba Lawson Royal College, Abeokuta.

After the exercise, Taidob College, emerged the winner of the seventh edition of the Mace Club of Nigeria Annual Roll-back Malaria Inter-School Essay, Quiz and Debate Competition.

The school scored 36 per cent, while the runner-up, Mayflower Secondary School, Ikenne, scored 34 per cent.

Baptist Boys High School, Saje, Abeokuta emerged second runner-up with 33 per cent, while Remo Secondary School, Sagamu took the fourth position with 31.3 per cent .

Also, Alaba Lawson Royal College, Kuto, Abeokuta came fifth with 29 per cent, followed by Methodist High School, Arigbajo, Ifo, with 24 per cent .

The President of the club, Mace Sina Oyejobi, said the training was established to teach the pupils how to identify the danger posed by malaria and other deadly diseases.

Oyejobi said the organisation was saddled with the responsibility of assisting Nigerians through humanitarian activities.

He also said the club had successfully engaged in several humanitarian activities.

“The need to initiate this competition is basically to expose the younger generation of the danger that the malaria scourge poses to humanity, especially to the Sub-Sahara Africa where it is the highest killer disease, and also to promote and encourage the reading culture and the use of English.

“On behalf of the club, I hereby expressed our profound gratitude to everyone here that have dignified us with their presence and found it worthy to identify with the club on this noble cause. A big thank you to all the stakeholders’ who have been instrumental in sustaining this legacy since inception”, he said.

Meanwhile, the representative of Roll Back Malaria, Olamide Adeyinka commended the organisers of the training for holding the event at such a critical time.

She said that malaria, which she described as a deadly disease, could be prevented if Nigerians kept their surroundings neat and tidy.

“This is beyond competition, you have to cultivate the habit of keeping your body and the environment neat at all time. Make sure you see your doctor before talking any pills”, Adeyinka said.

”Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]