BEDC donates 20,000 exercise books to Edo schools
Adekunle Peter, Benin

The BEDC Electricity Plc has donated over 20,000 exercise books to some primary and secondary schools in Benin City, capital of Edo State.

The exercise books, which had safety tips boldly printed on them, were distributed to the pupils during a sensitisation campaign held at Eyean Secondary School in the Ikpoba Okha Local Government Area of the state.

The electricity distribution company started the campaign with visits to six primary schools and a secondary school in Benin City, where over 10,000 safety exercise books and fliers were distributed to pupils. The schools were Ogbe, Oliha, Iyase Ugbekun, Ologbosere, Isohan, Ogenerie primary schools and Imaguero Secondary School.

The Health, Safety and Environment Manager of the BEDC, Mr Gilbert Nweke, said the donation was part of the company’s corporate social responsibility programme.

He said the electricity company was committed to reducing electrical accidents among school children, who were warned against indulging in unsafe acts, such as tampering with electrical installations, living and trading under high tension overhead lines, overcrowded electrical sockets, stepping/touching lines (electrical wires) and playing near distribution sub-stations etc.

The Head of CSR Project team of the BEDC, Mrs Felicia Nlemoha, said the pupils would become safety ambassadors in their various homes.

She further stated that selected schools would get educational materials from the BEDC, including branded exercise books and snapper frames inscribed with safety tips and message.

“The campaign will promote safety in the use of electricity at home, schools, road, and workplace and reduce the rate of electricity accidents and hazards amongst pupils.

“In addition to the safety campaign, the BEDC will also commence the formation of energy clubs called ‘Joules’ in secondary schools. The growth of Joules Club will metamorphose into a debate competition among member schools. The winners of the competition will in turn become brand ambassadors of the BEDC.

“The objective of the Joules Clubs is to groom secondary school pupils to take up careers in the electricity industry and to boost the current drive by the BEDC and other discos to tackle the manpower gap in the power sector.

“It will also encourage pupils to embrace the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) initiative in their career path and to bridge the knowledge gap in the power industry by educating students on the entire electricity value chain,” she added.

The Principal of Eyean Secondary School, Mr P. K. Idemudia, expressed his appreciation to the BEDC for the presentation.

He said: “This is a good innovation by BEDC, it is the first time we are witnessing this campaign from any electricity service providers in the country.”

Idemudia advised other discos to take a cue from BEDC and reach out to children who formed major part of the vulnerable segment of their customer population that were more prone to electrical accident.

”Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]