JAMB suspends 17 CBT centres, insists on Thursday deadline
Olaleye Aluko

The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board has suspended 17 Computer-Based Test centres from registering candidates for the 2019 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination for involving in different forms of malpractices.

The board also said it would not extend the registration of candidates which will end on Thursday, February 21, with over 1.6 million persons now registered for the exam.

The Chairman of JAMB’s Governing Board, Dr Emmanuel Ndukwe, stated this in a bulletin from the Office of the Registrar, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, released by the board on Monday.

Ndukwe said the board had regulated the registration with guiding rules and regulations to prevent Nigerians from being extorted by fraudulent CBT centres.

The chairman said, “The 2019 registration commenced on Thursday, January 10, and is expected to end on Thursday, February 21. There would be no extension of the exercise as the deadline remains sacrosanct.

“To ensure that Nigerians are not exploited or have their data mutilated, the board has regulated the registration exercise so that we may obtain the actual statistics that will reflect the realities on the ground.

“Any centre we find not complying with the ethics of registration will be sanctioned and we believe that this is the way to go in ensuring that the right things are done. All requirements have been defined and agreed upon by the board and centre owners.”

According to the JAMB’s release, the suspended CBT centres are Matar Miseri Cordiae Centre and Mardakem Company Limited, both in Akwa-Ibom State; Bintels Global Services, Anambra State; Global ICT Connect Limited, Benue State; Swiftcom Global, Cross River State; Sapele Technical College, Delta State; Evangel University, Ebonyi State; Bishop Gabriel CBT Centre and DA Civic Centre, both in Edo State.

READ ALSO: Stop school feeding programme, Niger NLC tells FG

Others are; University of Benin ICT Centre and Netskills Digital Solutions, both in Edo State; College of Education, Ikere-Ekiti and St. Silas Anglican School, both in Ekiti State; Medes ICT Centre in Ondo State; Divine Success CBT Centre in Oyo State; Riyom ICT Centre in Plateau State, and Taraba State University CBT Centre in Taraba State.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]