Academic activities resume at UI after ASUU strike
Tare Youdeowei

The students of the University of Ibadan, Oyo State, have resumed academic activities following a three-month-old national strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities.

According to the News Agency of Nigeria, a large number of students were sighted at their faculties and in lecture rooms on Monday.

Some lecturers were also seen taking classes while the university’s management released a review of the academic calendar for the rest of the 2017/2018 session.

Some of the students expressed delight at the suspension of the ASUU strike and resumption of academic work.

Damilola Popoola, a 100-level student of the Department of Adult Education said some lecturers came to class to teach but some students had yet to return to school.

“We have started lectures but most of my colleagues have yet to resume while some have on their way to school. I am glad to be back in school because I was bored while staying at home, even though I used the period to learn a vocational skill and read my books.”

Also, Ndeheyne Amen of the Department of Theatre Arts said the postponement of the elections was the reason some students had yet to return to school.

“Some students are a bit worried about the effect the postponed elections will have on the revised academic calendar, as some days would be declared work-free for the exercise to hold,” he said.

Confirming that academic activities had resumed in the institution was the Director of Communication, Mr Olatunji Oladejo, who said the school, through the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic), Prof. Adeyinka Aderinto, had released a statement to that effect.

“The VC, on behalf of the Senate, has approved the attached adjustment in the academic calendar for the rest of the 2017/2018 session. Only dates have been adjusted in the calendar.

“Recall that we had 23 days to the commencement of GES examinations and examinations in some faculties when the strike started.

“The revised academic calendar indicates that three weeks are left for teaching and revision spanning from February 18 to March 8, while the GES exams will take place from March 11 to March 15. Examinations in the faculties are expected to start on March 11 through to April 5 after which students will proceed home for Easter from April 19 to April 22.”

The revised academic calendar also indicated that a new session 2018/2019 would commence on June 1 for undergraduate and postgraduate students.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]