‘Gazelle graduates’ll empower children with special needs’
Tare Youdeowei

The Director of Patrick Speech and Language Centre, Mrs Dotun Akande, has said that the graduates of the centre’s Gazelle’s Place initiative will train children living with special needs by giving them the ability to earn an honest living.

The director made this known in a statement which revealed that the initiative’s mission was to have children with special needs affect the Nigerian economy positively by building businesses out of acquired skills, thereby improving their sense of self-worth and giving them a level- playing field to express their unique abilities.

Akande also said the reality of working with special needs children showed her that it was one thing to help them embrace their abilities and another to teach them how to put the skills to use.

“I asked myself, ‘what can these gifted children do?’ The answer followed immediately, ‘work with their hands’ and that was how the Gazelle’s Place initiative came to life.

“The initiative can be likened to creating a niche for people with disability who, ordinarily, would not be hired in some form of employment. This will build their confidence, give them an opportunity to interact with other people and give us a sense of joy that we have given them something. The fact that they cannot go to mainstream schools does not mean that they should come to Patrick’s for the rest of their lives. Our joy is to see our children do well and watch them go on to do great things in life,” she said.

Adding that the initiative would change the face of disability in the country, Akande said, “The first set of people to be trained under this initiative are girls in the IDP camps equipped and evaluated at the end of six months. Successful beneficiaries will be allowed to go back home to make an impact and those who wish to stay back can join the ‘train the trainers’ programme which will help them transfer knowledge to the children living with special needs. This will not only improve their self-worth and social skills; it will also give them stipends, thereby providing the opportunity to earn an income leading to building a financial saving culture around them.”

Built on the need to elevate the successful students of PSLC to greater heights, the initiative, which was launched on May 16, 2018, is funded by a grant from the United States African Development Foundation and the Pure Souls Learning Foundation, the non-governmental organisation arm of Patricks Speech and Language Learning Centre.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]