FG’s policy on teachers’ education poorly implemented, says provost
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

The Provost of Yewa Central College of Education, Abeokuta, Ogun State, Prof. David Bamgbose, has said the Federal Government’s ‘good policy’ for teachers’ education was being poorly implemented.

Bamgbose, who is also the National Chairman of the Committee of Provosts of Private Colleges in Nigeria, said that the Buhari-led administration had been implementing its strategies slowly, especially on teachers’ education.

He said this in Abeokuta after a meeting of the association.

He said the government needed to actualise many of its promises on teachers’ education for development to take place in the country.

“One of the things I noticed about this government is that it works slowly. They have a good policy but the strategy and implementation are slow and poor. I will like to see so many of the promises on the teacher education actualised and implemented not just on paper,” he said.

Speaking on the resolution of the emergency meeting, Bamgbose stressed that there was a need to have a national strategy on teachers’ education.

He added that the private body of colleges had proposed to have a national strategy to cater for the challenges facing teachers’ education.

He also disclosed that the body wanted the government to give attention to the executive bill that had been sent to the National Assembly on upgrading colleges of education to award autonomous specialised degree in education.

He further stressed that students enrolling for the National Certificate Education in colleges of education should not be subjected to buying Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination forms twice.

He however, urged the government to reduce the numbers of years NCE students spend in universities to two years.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]