FSTC repositioning for middle-level manpower production — Director
Tare Youdeowei

The Director and Principal of the Federal Science and Technical College, Yaba, Dr Ogochuku Ufoegbune, has said that the ongoing upgrade of facilities in the 70-year-old institution would accelerate the production rate of middle-level manpower for the nation.

Ufoegbune disclosed this in a recent interview with the News Agency of Nigeria in Lagos.

The director noted that the huge investment in facilities by the Federal government and other concerned partners over the years had contributed to the success of the college.

“I want to say that the Federal Government, in its bid to encourage and promote technical education and skills acquisition among young people, has done a lot in terms of provision of facilities, recruitment of teachers and others in recent times. Given such enabling environment, the college has been doing its best to ensure that the purpose for which these facilities were provided is achieved.

“However, a lot more can be done, in terms of facilities, for us to catch up with the demands of the 21st century. We are not excellent yet, in terms of facilities, but we are happy that these facilities are gradually being improved upon by the Federal Ministry of Education. We are equally happy that the Parent-Teacher Association of the college and the old students are also interested in the upgrade of the college’s facilities,” she said.

Ufoegbune also said that the Nigerian Academy of Engineering had recently adopted the institution, with a view to upgrading its equipment and facilities, adding that the academy had since commenced work on the renovation of the printing and electrical installation sections of the college.

Ufoegbune explained that the developments would help the institution to produce better qualified students and make a difference in the middle-level manpower that the country needs.

On her plans to introduce short courses on skills acquisition for university and polytechnic graduates, Ufoegbune said the college was ready to start the programme.

She said, “The facilities for the six to nine months short courses are fully on the ground. We need accreditation and we are still expecting officials from the Tertiary Department of the Federal Ministry of Education and the National Board for Technical Education to inspect and give us approval before the end of the year.”

Ufoegbune explained that the short courses programmes were designed to equip tertiary and secondary school graduates with skills that would enable them to set themselves up and even become employers of labour.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]