Be good ambassadors, minister charges Unwana Poly graduates
Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki

The Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, has charged graduates of Akanu Ibiam Federal Polytechnic, Unwana-Afikpo, Ebonyi State, to be good ambassadors of the institution and the country by putting all they had learnt to use for the betterment of the society.

Adamu, who was represented by the Director of Science and Technology in the Federal Ministry of Education, Mrs Adebukola Elizabeth, said this during the 14th convocation of the institution held recently on the main campus.

He advised the graduates to shun vices, such as drug abuse and prostitution, which had ravaged the Nigerian education system.

Adamu also said that although unemployment had become the greatest challenge facing the country, it could be overcome through technical and vocational education. He urged polytechnics to live up to their mandate and be responsive to the challenges of nation-building.

Meanwhile, the Rector of the institution, Dr Ogbonnia Ibe-Enwo, while congratulating the graduates, implored them to contribute their quotas to nation building by identifying their goals, vision and mission in life.

He said, “You are being conferred with your HND and OND today because you were found worthy not only in learning but also in character. But you do not stop learning as learning keeps the mind open and productive.

“Today you stand in the foremost of the knowledge economy to contribute your quota to Nigeria’s vision 20:2020. All of you must stand up to be counted in the annals of those who have made the world better.

“However, to be exceptional in your endeavour, you must dare to dream. You must have a mental picture of your destination in life. Know that having skills, knowledge and ideas, but lacking good attitude, diminishes your potentials.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]