NAFDAC DG to build, equip science laboratory for alma mater
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

The Director-General of the National Agency for Food, Drugs Administration and Control, Prof Mojisola Adeyeye, on Wednesday promised to build a multimillion naira science laboratory that will be equipped with modern facilities for Yejide Girls’ Grammar School, Molete, Ibadan, Oyo State.

She made the promise when she visited the school, where she had her secondary school education more than 50 years ago. On arrival, she was warmly received by the management of the school led by the principal, Mrs. Olatokunbo Akinsanya, as well as officials of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology in the state.

Adeyeye, who noted that she passed out of the school more than 50 years ago, said she lived for 38 years abroad before President Muhammadu Buhari appointed her as the director-general of NAFDAC, adding that the school provided a solid educational background for her to excel in life.

The NAFDAC boss, who toured the school, said, “The saddest part of my visit is the laboratory building. Of course, it is the laboratory building that I used over 50 years ago that is still there. It shouldn’t be. It shows the state of our nation. If we want, we can and we will.

“We are going to rehabilitate the building and equip the laboratory with modern accessories and supplies, that will make children dream that they want to become NAFDAC DG.”

Adeyeye also promised to transform the science library of the school, saying, “We are going to fill the shelves of the science library with books. And this will be the beginning.”

She noted that the school planted the seed of greatness in her more than 50 years ago and it was her responsibility to give back to school.

“The seeds of courage, integrity, and hard work, the hallmark of Yejide Girls’ Grammar School, were sown in me over 50 years ago, as a young child of 13. Everybody is seeing it now.

“I just cannot say too much on Yejide Girls’ Grammar School. You don’t have to be rich and you don’t have to come from wherever to make it in life. As long as you are a part of Yejide, you are a family. Yejide did a lot and we thank God that we are seeing the fruits today,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]