‘Every child needs basic computer skills to succeed’
Tare Youdeowei

The Head of Oando Foundation, Adekanla Adegoke, has said that every child, regardless of background, requires basic computer skills to succeed in this age of technology.

Adegoke also said that ensuring that every public primary school pupil gained access to a computer for Information Communication Technology practice was central to building a nation of successful youths.

Adegoke made this known recently during the inspection of a solar-powered ICT unit donated to Dele Ajomale Primary School in Ilasa, Lagos, under the foundation’s Adopt-a-School initiative in collaboration with Sumitomo Chemicals.

She said, “At the basic level, being able to navigate a computer is an essential skill for today’s youth. In the workplace, having ICT skills is imperative. Thus, pupils have to be comfortable and able to use technology, not just for more effective learning, but also to be able to stand alongside their peers globally. To this end, Oando Foundation promotes ICT literacy through a variety of formal and informal activities designed to enable children to acquire functional computer literacy.

“The result has been the establishment of 46 ICT centres across Nigeria. This is part of our mandate to expose pupils in our adopted schools with ICT capabilities and to arm them with the requisite knowledge to compete favourably in an ever-dynamic world. It will also strengthen the capacity of in-school ICT educators ensuring improved knowledge transfer and successful implementation of the national curriculum on ICT.”

On his part, the President of Sumitomo Chemical America, Inc., Scott Mitchell, said the company looked forward to having the next generation of global leaders emerge from Africa.

“The Company continues the philosophy that its founder established 400 years ago, which is to create harmony by contributing to society through our business activities. Through our education support programs, we hope to contribute to the upbringing of our next global leaders. In particular, we recognise the importance of ICT literacy programs for children from an early age,” he said.

Commending the efforts of the foundation and the company, the Education Secretary, Local Government Education Authority, Lagos State, Femi Ogunwusi, urged them to set up more solar powered ICT units in more schools in the state, as he called on more well-meaning organisations to emulate the efforts of Oando Foundation and Sumitomo Chemicals.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]