Biases, gender stereotypes keeping girls from sciences – UN
Tare Youdeowei, with Agency Reports

The United Nations has said that long-standing biases and gender stereotypes are steering girls and women away from science-related fields.

The body also noted that recent studies had suggested that 65 per cent of children entering primary school would have jobs that do not yet exist.

The UN, made this known in a statement released on its website for the 2019 International Day of Women and Girls in Science with the theme, Investment in Women and Girls in Science for Inclusive Green Growth.

It also said that despite an increase in the enrolment of female pupils in schools, girls were still significantly under-represented in Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics subjects.

Lamenting that many girls appeared to lose interest in STEM subjects at adolescence, the UN said, “As the fourth industrial revolution starts, women still have less than two-thirds of the economic opportunity that men have. The jobs of the future will be driven by technology and innovation, and if the gender divide in STEM is not bridged soon, the overall gender gap is likely to widen.

“Science and gender equality are both vital for the achievement of the internationally agreed development goals, including the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Over the past 15 years, the global community has made a lot of effort to inspire and engage women and girls in science. Yet, women and girls continue to be excluded from participating fully in science.

“At present, less than 30 per cent of researchers worldwide are women. According to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation data (2014 – 2016), only around 30 per cent of all female students select STEM-related fields in higher education. Globally, female pupils’ enrolment is particularly low in ICT – three per cent; natural science, mathematics and statistics – five per cent; and in engineering, manufacturing and construction – eight per cent.

“Only 1.7 per cent of the global GDP is dedicated for research and experimental development. With too few women in decision making roles and higher-paying STEM jobs, the gender gap in STEM has deep implications for the future of the global economy. For instance, women stand to gain only one new STEM job for every 20 lost, in stark contrast to men, who gain one new STEM job for every four lost. Improved recruitment, retention and promotion policies, as well as continuous learning and up-skilling for women, can go a long way towards closing this gap. The UN is calling for actions to remove all barriers that hold them back.”

On the way forward, the UN recommended the debunking of the myth that girls dislike sciences and other gender stereotypes, along with investment in teacher training, gender-responsive technology and innovation to reverse the trend.

Also, during the private screening of a movie entitled, Hidden Figures, to encourage school girls to embrace science subjects in Victoria Island, Lagos, on Monday, the United States Consul- General, John Bray, urged Nigerian girls to be confident in their desire to learn sciences.

Bray advised girls to use successful female scientists as role models to challenge themselves to successful as well.

He said, “Challenge yourselves, learn more about successful women in STEM fields, and draw inspiration from them. The U.S. government is convinced that when barriers to the participation of women and girls in the STEM fields are removed, women do better, families do better, countries do better, and the world does better.

“I strongly encourage everyone here to think broadly about ways you or your organisations can form partnerships and expand your networks to grow more women STEM leaders.”

”Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]