Research reveals wonders of dragonflies, damselflies
Tare Youdeowei

A team of researchers from the University of Lagos, Federal University of Technology, Akure, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Akwa Ibom State University, University of Ibadan and Lagos State University, Lagos, have completed a one-year-long research on dragonflies and damselflies and revealed that they are useful in detecting climate change and the quality of water bodies.

The researchers, comprised of professors Sylvester Ogbogu and Adebayo Omoloye, and doctors Kehinde Kemabonta, Temitope Onuminya, Babasola Adu, Rosemary Essien and Azeezat Alafia, made this known during a stakeholder meeting on the project held last Tuesday at the University of Lagos, Akoka.

The project, with the theme, Digitisation of Species of Odonata in Nigeria, was funded by the Global Biodiversity Information Facility, the Biodiversity Information for Development and the University of Lagos.

Speaking for the team, Kemabonta, described Odonata, dragonflies and damselflies, as edible insects that contain crude protein. “Dragonflies and damselflies are carnivores and they are edible as they contain 45 to 65 per cent crude protein. They are biocontrol agents, medicinal and magical, as they are used to foretell a time of great change and transition. They are used to monitor climate change. They are also often used to monitor the existence of fresh water. They are indicators of ecosystem quality, wetland quality because some species follow clean water while others follow dirty water.”

At the meeting, the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, who was represented by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor Academics, Prof. Oluwole Familoni, congratulated the team for the completion of the project, which he described as a laudable feat that would help to inform Nigerians about the importance of Zoology as a course of study.

On his part, the Head of the Department of Zoology, Prof. Joseph Saliu, called for an end to the elimination of animal species. “Animal species are interdependent. When we eliminate one species, we disrupt the natural balance of things. This should change our attitude towards species because they maintain a form of ecological balance. Everything must be kept alive so that life can be maintained.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]