Edo Poly opens Centre for Geospatial Information Science
Tare Youdeowei

The Management of the Edo State Polytechnic, Usen, Edo State, has made arrangements to run professional courses for graduates and introductory programmes for secondary schools, among others, at the Centre for Geospatial Information Science.

The Rector of the institution, Prof. Abiodun Falodun, disclosed this during the unveiling of the CGIS, at the school’s premises.

Falodun noted that the centre was fitted with state-of-the-art facilities for research and capacity building in geospatial information science.

As made known in a statement from the Office of the Special Adviser, Media to the Governor of Edo State, the rector said the state government and the Tertiary Education Trust Fund were instrumental to the establishment of the centre.

Falodun also said that the centre would serve as a training facility to a number of organisations that require the collection of geospatial data in carrying out their functions, as well as provide short professional courses and introductory training programmes for secondary school students.

At the Third Public Lecture of the institution, which held alongside the unveiling of the CGIS, Dr Innocent Bello, described geospatial information science as a vital element in the quest for sustainability in urban and regional development.

In the lecture titled Geospatial Technology as a Tool for National Planning and Development, Bello, who is an expert in satellite data management at the National Space Research and Development Agency, said the presence of the CGIS at a critical time when reliable and up-to-date data is a mirage, is a right step in the right direction.

“Although the level of understanding and rate of uptake of geospatial information, particularly at the policy and decision-making level, remains less than optimal, many do not understand its value and importance within the context of the sustainable development agenda.

“Governments at all levels need accurate data in order to govern, hence GST integration,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]