FG inaugurates World Bank’s $611m investment in Oyo
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

The Federal Government on Thursday inaugurated the Better Education Service Delivery for All in Oyo State, making it the second out of the 17 beneficiary states to formally start the implementation.

The government also commended the World Bank for initiating BESDA and the provision of $611m to support the Nigerian government in strengthening Universal Basic Education, as well as addressing the first pillar of the Ministerial Strategic Plan 2016 – 2019 on out-of-school children.

The Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, at the at the event held in Ibadan, capital of the state, disclosed that Nigeria had the highest number of the out-of-school children in sub-Saharan African with an estimation of 13.2 million. He noted that the government was strengthening the quality of basic education in country to confront factors that deny children access to basic education.

Adamu, who was represented by the Director, Basic Secondary Education in the Minstry, Dr Lami Amodu, said that BESDA would focus on 17 states, which include the 13 states of the North-West and North-East geo-political zones, as well as Niger, Oyo, Ebonyi and Rivers states.

He said, “It is gratifying that Oyo State is the second among the 17 states that have successfully commenced the implementation process. I am, indeed, very delighted at the bold step taken by Governor Abiola Ajimobi on having the state covered by BESDA to formally launch the programme. This is a clear demonstration of his quality leadership and his personal commitment to education, as well as the passion to revitalise our education sector in order to develop the abundant human capital of the state.”

Malam Adamu said that BESDA would result in a better life for all children and improve literacy and strengthen accountability for results at the basic education level in the focus states.

He added that ensuring out-of-school children are back to school and learning will not be only a moral and legal obligation but also a productive investment that will guarantee the future of children and ensure that their rights are protected as enshrined in the Childs Right Act, 2003.

In his address, the Governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi said that the present administration had drawn a credible road-map to guide the operations of all stakeholders in the education sector, noting that the state government had also spent huge amount of resources with a view to ensuring quantitative and qualitative education service delivery in the state.

Ajimobi said, “It is worthy to note that our government has not defaulted in the provision of matching grants for infrastructural facilities to enhance basic education delivery in the state. We commend the Federal Government and the Universal Basic Education Commission for ensuring quality education at all levels. We cherish and consider it a great privilege and wish to assure the Federal Government that the state will put in place all necessary mechanisms to ensure the successful implementation of BESDA.”

On his part, the Executive Secretary of UBEC, Dr Hamid Bobboyi, said the commission will continue to evolve revolutionary strategies towards a total overhaul of basic education delivery by focusing on the paradigm shift from being input-based to being result based.

He also said the commission has been investing hugely on data generation, analyses and reporting by repackaging some of the statutory mandates for better results.

In her address, the Executive Chairman of Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board, Mrs Aderonke Makanjuola stated that neglecting out-of-school children would deny them their fundamenttal rights and jeopardise the country’s pursuit for home-grown technological development and economic transformation, as she called for all hands to be on deck to bring out-of-school children back to school.

In his goodwill message, the representative of Association of National Conference of Principals of Secondary Schools and Nigeria Union of Teachers Oyo State Chapter, Mr Babajide Emmanuel, said BESDA was a welcomed and laudable development.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]