Fayemi tackles congestion with four new schools
Abiodun Nejo

Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has approved the construction of four new secondary schools in Ado Ekiti to tackle the problem of congestion in classrooms in the capital city.

Fayemi, represented by the Deputy Governor, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, said, “The four schools, which will be named after eminent citizens of the state, are expected to take off in September 2019 when the new academic session resumes.”

He spoke in Ado Ekiti while distributing learning materials, including 2000 chairs and lockers, 550 students’ laptops, 9,792 copies of science text books and 1,100 set of drawing boards and T-square to select schools across the three senatorial districts of the state.

The governor said the distribution of the educational materials was to complement other motivational devices, including distribution of 3,000 free JAMB forms for indigent students, procurement of science equipment and consumables and payment of outstanding incentives to beneficiaries of rural and core subject allowance among others.

Fayemi said that his government increased the budgetary allocation to education in 2019 budget to keep pace with the UNESCO recommendation of 26 per cent of the total budget, saying “the increase will enable government provide basic educational needs for schools as captured in its Knowledge Economy Agenda”.

Identifying education as key to breaking the throes of generational poverty, the governor said he would ensure a free and quality education for all children of school age, saying, “Ekiti State cannot afford to remain a dwarf in the comity of states in the education sector. The quest to restore our lost glory in the education sector is not negotiable.”

Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Mr Ayo Ajayi, said distribution of the learning materials to public secondary schools in the state would further enhance teaching and learning outcomes in the schools.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]