There should be alternative to strike — UNIOSUN VC
The Vice-Chancellor of the Osun State University, Osogbo, Prof. Labode Popoola, talks about how he put an end to riots at the institution in this interview with BOLA BAMIGBOLA. Excerpts:

How did you handle the challenges you met on ground such that it did not overwhelm you?

This job was advertised and I applied for it. I was interviewed and I came first. I knew what I wanted to do here, based on the background checks that I did. I knew this place was rotten. I knew I had a duty. Those who employed me knew what was going on here and they wanted me to do something about it.

What do you mean by rotten?

You know what journalists write about us; that I have embezzled money. If it is true, it would not be difficult to know, but it is not true. Those who employed me – the Visitor and the Governing Council – are happy with me because they are seeing results. If you knew this university four years ago, you can compare it with what it is now. In terms of visible achievements, even in the areas of academics, our students are excelling.

You can see that our students don’t go on riot again. They don’t misbehave as they used to do in the past. So, those that are making noise are only trying to resist a positive moving force. Almost everybody is on board the new train. They are saying enough of this trouble. We have some of the people, very few of them, I don’t want to call them the cabal because this is not a political environment, who just want to make life difficult for themselves.

It was alleged that you refused to pay some non-academic staff of the university who joined a strike ordered by their union

It is important to know how the system runs. They listed 34 people who were paid when they went on an illegal strike. This is a university and there is a policy that says if you don’t work, you don’t get paid. It is not my policy. It is the policy of the council approved by the visitor to the university. There are documents to that effect.

Now, high-ranking officers of the institution cannot go on strike. The Director of Health Services cannot go on strike. These people will go and lock up the hospitals whenever they are protesting. Have you ever heard that in a university some people lock up hospitals because they want to force people to join their strike? You cannot force the director of health services to go on strike. The Director of Works cannot go on strike. These are the people they listed. Those people did not commit any offence. They were not supposed to go on strike and they didn’t go on strike. The Vice- Chancellor’s secretary did not go on strike. The Deputy Registrar did not go on strike. The Chief Security Officer of the university cannot go on strike.

You were recently invited by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission over allegations of corruption. How did that go?

The EFCC must do its job. If I write to the EFCC today that Boladele has embezzled N20. The EFCC has a duty to investigate. I went to the EFCC for the first time on December 19. The matter they took to the EFCC, the council had investigated it. I was exonerated. They took the same matter to the House of Assembly, nothing came out of it. They took the same matter to the former Governor of the state, he just laughed it off. Four of my colleagues have been appearing before the EFCC since April 2018 on the same allegations. Then I went to the EFCC on December 19 before I left Ibadan. They claimed in their petition that I awarded contracts to members of staff. How is that possible?

In the petition they wrote to the House of Assembly, they claimed that I appointed non- indigenes of the state to critical positions. For God’s sake, this is a university. They said some provosts were non -indigenes. My background doesn’t allow for such frivolities. In any case, I didn’t employ those people. I met them here. In terms of seniority, if it is their turn, I will then say they are non- indigenes?

What do you consider to be your achievements so far?

In my first few weeks, UNIOSUN students were always in the news for negative things. Nowadays what we hear is that they are winning laurels. Of course, it cannot be a perfect situation, but most of the students now know why they are here. That is one.

Secondly, in the area of curriculum, all our programmes are now accredited. That was not the case before I got here. We have introduced 21 new programmes. The National Universities Commission approved all of them. In the university environment, the access road was in bad shape when I came. Now look at the environment. Look at the classrooms. Go to Okuku and Ikire and see the renovation that is going on. We are going to do it around all the campuses of the university. The funds that were leaking in the past are now being used to ensure that these things are in place.

How do you cope with running the school without subvention?

Well, it is not as if we don’t get subventions at all. Since I came here the largest sum of money we were given, until three months ago, was between N42m and N43m. Yet we have a wage bill of about N170m. On the average, a student should pay nothing less than N600, 000 for any programme, but we know that is not implementable in our current situation.

So, what our students pay as tuition fee is about N185, 000. Of course, there are other charges, which the students are the beneficiaries, like health, ICT, sports and excursions. With that, we are able to increase our IGR. It is not enough, but we have been able to manage because we have been very prudent in the allocation of our resources. That is why we have been able to run our programmes and pay salaries.

We have been able to invest and give departments money to do other things. We have UNIOSUN Ventures. We have a water factory, a block making factory and we have started poultry in Ejigbo with over 2,000 birds. These were not there when I came here. Our integrated farm is making progress. These are the initiatives that I brought. We are hoping that in the coming years, we will be able to generate more revenue from these investments.

What is the permanent solution to the incessant industrial action by the staff unions in Nigeria’s universities?

It is like a husband and wife. You don’t ever have a perfect husband and you don’t ever have a perfect wife. Yet couples agree to live together. In the case of Nigeria, available resources will never be enough, not only for education but also for other sectors. But, as an academic, I will ask why Nigeria is unable to fund its education sector? Unfortunately, rather than ask questions and seek the answers to the questions, we prefer to go on strike.

Many times, we have heard people say that a strike is the last resort. But in truth, there is no last resort in this life. I still believe we can get things done without embarking on strike. The cost of a strike is quite huge. You cannot build a thing by destroying it. We don’t even have a regular calendar again, except that we have decided here not to join any strike. We know the implications of a strike. What do we tell the parents? What do you tell the students who are committing their time and resources?

Many of the students are missing scholarship awards. Many of them who want to travel abroad for postgraduate studies cannot go. Schools abroad resume August/ September every year. This strike is going to cost some students three years. These are the things, as a parent and citizen of this country I worry about. I want to plead with our colleagues to let us be partakers in the solution. For instance, if the Federal Government decides to give 100 per cent of ASUU’s demands, what has been destroyed is much more.

Will you advise the Federal Government to implement the ‘no work, no pay’ rule to discourage incessant strikes?

In fact, there is a law to that effect. We are all striving to be like modern nations. If you go to the United Kingdom, you take your pay for the work you do. When unions want to go on strike in the UK, they would have saved enough to take care of the needs of their members. Last year, academics in the UK went on one week strike. Apart from the fact that they didn’t get paid, they also refunded money to their students for the work they didn’t do. So, if we want to be part of the global village, then we have to adjust to some of these things.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]