Pay attention to agric innovations, minister urges varsities
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Minister of State for Agriculture, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, has urged Nigerian universities to pay attention to innovations in agriculture with a view to ensuring food security, create employment opportunities and boost the nation’s revenue.

Lokpobiri, who said the country would be sitting on a keg of gunpowder if pragmatic steps were not taken to ensure food security, advised tertiary institutions to emulate the agriculture initiative of the Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State.

The minister, who spoke in Ado Ekiti on Sunday at a luncheon organised in his honour by the founder of ABUAD, Chief Afe Babalola, to end the minister’s two-day visit to ABUAD Farms and other facilities of the university, said, “There must be steps to have the kind of farms that ABUAD has. What the university is doing is the first step towards guaranteeing food security.

“Our universities that are sitting on hectares of land must pay attention to technology and innovation. They must emulate what ABUAD is doing in the agriculture sector. I wonder what will happen to us in the future, if we cannot feed our 180 million population.”

He noted that the institution had made an effort to encourage agricultural students by reducing their tuition.

Lokpobiri, who lamented that the country was losing a lot of revenue through food imports, said, “Before President Muhammadu Buhari came on board, Nigeria was losing $9bn in revenue earnings annually in the agricultural sector.

“This is the reason why President Buhari said we must produce what we eat. He reduced taxes in agriculture to attract investors to Nigeria. We are also taking pragmatic steps to increase productivity in the sector.”

He warned that Nigeria might witness serious famine in future with a possible increase in her population to 250 million by 2030.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]