Handling adverbs in indirect speech
Often, many of us concentrate on changes in tenses when we change a sentence from the direct to indirect speech. Yes, it is good to watch the behaviour of the verbs involved as well as pay attention to changes in punctuation marks. But this is not enough if we want to get perfect indirect or reported speech. Another key aspect of the rite has to do with adverbs in the statement, which must also experience transformation.

In other words, adverbs, especially adverbs of time and place, also change forms, just as verbs do. Not observing this aspect of the rule makes each of the following clauses faulty, for instance:

Direct speech: The man said, “I want to know how the vice president’s chopper crash-landed.”

Indirect speech: The man said he wanted to know how the vice president’s chopper crash-landed yesterday.

Direct speech: “The campaign will resume tomorrow,” she said.

She said the campaign would resume tomorrow.

Direct speech: Davido said, “I don’t want any controversy now.”

Indirect speech: Davido said he didn’t want any controversy now.

You would think that I did well by ensuring that I changed the tenses of the verbs in the statements in the direct speech, while also ensuring I throw away the quotation marks. But is my effort enough to guarantee me flawless statements in reported expressions? No. I failed to do the needful on the adverbs in the sentences, so the reported statements harbour grammatical errors. In the indirect speech form, yesterday, tomorrow and now should become the previous night, the day after and then respectively:

The man said he wanted to know how the vice president’s chopper crash-landed the previous day.

The woman said the campaign would resume the day after.

Davido said he didn’t want any controversy then.

Hope you remember that adverbs are words that modify verbs. They tell us more about verbs in terms of when, where, why and in what circumstance an action is taking place. That is why we, for instance, have adverbs of place (here, there) and time (now, yesterday). The two types of adverbs are particularly affected by the rule we are examining:

Direct speech: “They want to go now,” the teacher said.

The teacher said they wanted to go now. (Wrong)

The teacher said they wanted to go then. (Correct)

James claimed, “The money is not here.”

James claimed the money was not here. (Wrong)

John claimed the money was not there. (Correct)

Some of the adverbs affected, however, have more than one option. Among them are ‘yesterday’, which can become the previous day or the day before; and ‘last night’, which changes to the previous night or the night before. In the same vein, the next day, next week and next year become the following day, the following week and the following year respectively.

While ‘ago’ also becomes ‘before’ and ‘today’ becomes ‘that day’, note that there are other words that are neither verbs nor adverbs which must also change when the clause is being transformed. They include ‘this’ and ‘that’, as exemplified below:

“I don’t want this,” he insisted.

He insisted that he didn’t want this. (Wrong)

He insisted that he didn’t want that. (Correct)

“These politicians are very funny,” the critic said.

The critic said these politicians were very funny. (Wrong)

The critic said those politicians were very funny. (Correct)

When ‘now’, ‘here’ have to remain the same

If the person reporting the speech and the listener happen to be where the person who gave the direct speech made it, ‘here’ will retain its form. It will not become ‘there’. Also, if the report is made immediately, or ‘now’ refers to an object present at the time of reporting, it need not become ‘then’:

The doctor said, “You can’t eat now.”

The doctor said I couldn’t eat now. Correct)

Another word covered by the exemption is ‘this’. If the object is present where the speech is being reported, the word does not transform to ‘that’:

“Give her this,” the matron remarked.

The matron remarked that I should give her this. (The object is right there.)

Of course, if the object is more than one, and ‘these’ is used, it too does not turn to ‘those’.

“These are his shoes,” the cobbler said.

The cobbler said these are his shoes.

Reported speech in present tense not affected

Remember that the reporter can decide to use the present tense to report the speech. When he does this, the verbs remain in the present tense or present continuous form. Automatically too, all adverbs remain the same:

The President says, “I won’t punish the minister now.”

The President says he won’t punish the minister then. (Wrong)

The President says he won’t punish the minister now. (Correct)

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]