Partner varsities, research institutions, minister urges private sector
Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki

The Minister of Science and Technology, Dr OgbonnayaOnu, has called on the private sector to show more interest in supporting researches and innovations in universities, as well as other research institutions, to boost the manpower required to move the nation forward.

Onu, made the call during the weekend at the Alex-Ekwueme Federal University Ndufu-Alike, Ikwo in Ebonyi State while inaugurating the upgraded chemical laboratory, equipped by PZ Cusson Africa and the National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion.

He said, “The Federal Ministry of Science and Technology is at the forefront of ensuring that laboratories in the universities, research institutions among others, are upgraded.”

Onu added that having world-class laboratories would help the country to have world-class researches and one day, produce a Nobel laureate in Physics, Medicine and Chemistry.

He added, “The researchers should be encouraged because if we can produce high quality manpower, it will help industries increase productivity and make more money. Teaching and researches in the nation’s universities should be geared towards solving national problems.

“The ministry’s interest is to promote researches driven by industrial needs and this will ensure that commercialising research findings would not be a problem.”

He pointed out that the country could not continue to depend entirely on other nations to solve her problems because it had some of the most intelligent people in the world.

Onu also sought the immediate establishment of an Intellectual Property and Technological Transfer Office, in the university.

In his address, the Director General, NOTAP, Alhaji Dan-Azumi Ibrahim, said the agency was of the view that developing human capacities, facilities and policies would ensure that the country moved forward. “We should, fore mostly, undertake research and development that is capable of producing products and services.”

Also, the Chief Executive Officer of PZ Cusson, Mr Christos Giannopoulos, said the establishment would continue upgrading universities in the country as part of its social responsibilities.

The Vice-Chancellor of AE-FUNAI, Prof.ChinedumNwajiuba, commended the ministry for its effort towards enhancing the country economic development through science, technology and innovation.

“This institution which places high premium on research, also appreciates NOTAP and PZ Cusson for the partnership that gave birth to the event we are witnessing.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]