Nigeria needs to embrace online schooling –Rhodes
Fisayo Odumuyiwa

The Provost of Harrow School Online, Heather Rhodes, has advised Nigerians not to neglect online learning, stating that it gives room for flexibility.

He made this call in Lagos on Thursday at a press conference organised by the Harrow School Online in collaboration with Pearson Schools.

According to him, online schooling is for everyone since the world has moved past keeping people in physical classrooms. “Some people have still not attained the level of education they wish to attain because of the difficulty to attend classes. Online classes give students the freedom to juggle their career and school because they are not tied down to a fixed schedule.

“We live in a rapidly changing world, and education too must adapt to the new challenges this presents, and reflects young people’s lifestyles and aspirations. It’s a privilege to be at the forefront of this new chapter of education. We are pleased to be partnering Pearson using their expertise in this area to make it a reality. I look forward to welcoming our new students in 2020,” Rhodes said.

Speaking on the partnership the Head, Pearson Schools, United Kingdom, Sharon Hague, said, Harrow Online School was partnering Pearson Schools to commence a leading British education system in Nigeria.

Hague said, “It is a co-educational school for students aged 16 and above who have strong English skills and are looking for prestigious and high-quality British education that suits their lifestyle. Pearson is investing in digital innovation and our collaboration with Harrow builds on our existing leadership in online schooling in the United States and the world. Through this innovation, we are helping export high quality, British curriculum internationally, using technology to increase access to quality education for international learners.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]