Club distributes N20m materials to schools
Maureen Ihua-Maduenyi

A social development club, Etsako Club 81 said it is set to distribute instructional materials worth over N20 million to secondary schools in three Local Government Areas in Edo state.

The LGAs are Etsako Central, Etsako East and Etsako West while the materials include sets of laboratory equipment, textbooks, charts and maps among others.

The social club also said 15 students from underprivileged families from the 15 clans in councils will benefit from the 2019 N100, 000 scholarship scheme bursary awards for indigent students.

President of Etsako Club 81, Prince Asamah Yusuf Kadiri who spoke at a press conference ahead of the Etsako 2019 Day in Lagos said the gesture was aimed at supporting government efforts in uplifting the standard of education in the state as well ensure that brilliant students from poor background are not deny the opportunities to attain their destiny in life.

He said the scholarship awards will see beneficiaries receive an annual sum of N100, 000 each from the club for a period of four years while they study in approved universities, polytechnic and the Nigeria Defense Academy.

Speaking on the Etsako Day 2019 schedule for Saturday, October 12th, Prince Kadiri told journalists that the theme “Showcasing the Cultural Heritage and Investment Opportunities of Etsako” is aim at drawing investors interest into the abundant mineral resources scattered across the landscape of Etsako land.

Prince Kadiri said, “The primary objectives of the club is to serve humanity, make contribution to nation building through community development as well social and economic development initiatives in various spheres of human endeavour”

The club President added,“Showcasing our heritage outside the shores of our fatherland is a way of drawing our kith and kin in the Diaspora together and also to woo investment into the rich hospitalities and tourism opportunities, mineral resources and others that abound in Etsako land.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]