NECT remodels Maiduguri school to boost orphans education
The education of orphans and most vulnerable children affected by the conflicts in the North East region of Nigeria has received a further boost with the unveiling of the upgraded and remodeled Maiduguri International School by the North East Children’s Trust.

The school, which has over 600 pupils and comprises nursery, primary and secondary sections, was established as a co-educational institution in 1981.

It is owned and managed by the Borno community to enhance access to quality education in the state.

The Vice-Chairman of NECT, Prof Hauwa , said at the unveiling of the project on Tuesday in Maiduguri, that the Trust executed viable interventions to support provision of quality education to children affected by the conflict in the northeast.

Biu added that the projects were designed to upgrade the existing infrastructure, provision of learning resources and teacher capacity development programmes.

She listed the projects to include completion of 10 block of classrooms; renovation of 44 classrooms, auditorium and staff room as well as construction of a dining hall.

Other projects are the rehabilitation and equipping of physics, chemistry and biology laboratories and construction of 30-student capacity Information and Communication Technology centre with wireless connections.

Biu listed other projects, which include construction of a vocational centre, upgrading and equipping of Physics, Chemistry and Biology laboratories, resource rooms with computers, remodeling of a makeshift mosque, Junior Primary & Senior Primary Schools, nursery Blocks 1 and 2, electrification of the entire premises and offsetting of outstanding electricity bill as well as construction of drive ways and installation of solar powered overhead tank.

Dr. Masha said the Maiduguri International School, which was set up for non-profit goals, should see the assistance as an opportunity to open its door for more vulnerable children to have access to quality education, which is the bedrock of meaningful development in all societies.

Borno State Deputy Governor, Usman Kadafur, commended NECT for its huge support aimed at reinvigorating the education sector ravaged by the decade-long insurgency in the region.

Kadafur also said that the state government accorded priority to the improvement of the education sector through the establishment of new schools and improvement of teacher service and welfare scheme.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]