Pupils urge FG to provide better school facilities
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

Pupils of some public secondary schools in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, have called on the Federal Government to intensify the provision of adequate infrastructure, books and other facilities to improve the teaching and learning environment in the country

The pupils gave this advice on Thursday during the Korea-Nigeria Quiz Competition, which brought together about 60 pupils from 12 public schools in the FCT.

The competition was organised by the Korean Cultural Centre of Nigeria.

A pupil of Government Secondary School, Nyanya, Sandra Omomoh, told our correspondent at the event that the government must intensify the provision of facilities in schools at both the Federal and state levels.

She said, “I believe that our classrooms need to be more equipped so that pupils can learn in a suitable environment. This should be taken seriously by the government. If our schools do not have the adequate facilities, pupils cannot assimilate anything.

“The quiz contest was based on a book on the Republic of Korea, which discussed the culture, traditions and history of Korea. We were given the book to study only on Wednesday and I am glad to have participated in the competition.”

Omomoh emerged as the winner of the contest and she went home going with a laptop computer.

Another pupil, Mabel Amodu, from Government Secondary School, Gwagwalada, said, “The government needs to provide more books for us. We need the authorities to fund our clubs and encourage the reading culture.

“In my school, a lot of pupils don’t have this opportunity because they don’t have these books to read.”

The KCCN Director, Mr Lee Jin-Su, noted that the quiz competition was to celebrate the mutual cooperation and shared values that existed between the Korean and the Nigerian peoples, noting that it was to develop skills and knowledge of the participants.

Some other FCT schools at the competition included Government Secondary Schools from Dutse, Garki, Deidei, and Pegi.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]