Passion for education moved me to establish Isrina Schools – Proprietor
19-year-old student of Crawford University, Igbesa in Ogun State, Grace Amuzie, explains why she founded Isrina School, in this interview with DAYO OJERINDE

What inspired you to start a summer school in the first place?

I was in Senior Secondary School two when the summer lesson started. I was 15-year-old then. During the long holiday, I decided to start teaching the kids in my neighbourhood. I did that for the month of August and I went back to school. The following year (2016) I gathered the kids again and began to teach them, after their parents persuaded me to do so. There was an improvement. Later, with support from some of my friends, parents and well-wishers, I transformed the school into a day care centre.

What was your initial objective?

My initial objective was just to gather the neighbourhood children and teach them during the long holiday. Their parents were impressed with the way I handle them and that gave me the courage to start the school.

What role did your parents play here? Did they sell the idea to start a school of this trpe to you?

Nobody sold the idea to me. The school is the product of a vision that came to me as a result of my passion for little children. My parents have been supportive from the beginning and they are the ones who run the school in my absence. My parents saw the school as something that will keep me busy during the long holiday.

Where did you get the name of the school from?

Isrina is derived from Israel and Angelina, my parents’ names. It was my own way of rewarding them for their support over the years. The school started with four children, now we have over 83 pupils.

What were the challenges you encountered?

We had difficulty raising the capital to fund the school, getting the structures and recruiting teachers. Through support from my friends and well-wishers, we were able to start the school.

I am grateful to God for sending the late Mrs Yetunde Oghomienor, the Managing Director of Aframero Limited, to my aid. She donated tables and chairs to the school at the inception. The furniture is still in use today.

Looking at this Ajegunle environment, the challenge we face currently is not limited to security; we also lack space to build our structures and funds.

A lady of your age should be concerned about getting more education. In your case, is the school a barrier to such ambition?

No, the school is not in any way stopping me from achieving the educational heights I want to attain in life. I am currently in my final year. Whenever I got to school, my parents help with the running of the school. So there is no vacuum.

How many teachers does the school have and how did you recruit them?

We have six teachers at present. I started teaching as a secondary school leaver before inviting basically O level holders and those that had the passion for teaching.

For the Kindergarten and Nursery sections, we employ mothers who can take care of children. The school currently runs from daycare to primary five. There are about 83 pupils in the school.

How do you deal with the members of your staff who are older than you and parents of your pupils?

There is mutual respect between us. So far, there is no issue of disrespect. The parents love what I am doing and I give them their due respect.

The decision doesn’t just come from me and my parents. We try to get everybody’s opinion before arriving at a conclusion.

Where do you think the school will be in the nearest future?

My plan is to expand the school and to have a solid background to groom Nigeria’s future leaders. We aim to provide quality education at a low cost to parents.

Have you registered the school with the relevant govt agencies?

We have registered the school with the Corporate Service Commission. The process of registering with the Lagos State Ministry of Education is ongoing.

Are you in any relationship at the moment?

Yes, I am in a relationship and my fiance shares the same vision with me. We are working towards the same goal. He doesn’t have any problem with me running the school and studying at the same time.

How do you pay your teachers? Is tuition free in the school?

NCE holders are paid N20,000 monthly, while school leaving certificate holders get N10,000 monthly. The pupils pay N4,000 per term. We have a partnership with the African Clean-Up Initiative where we have an arrangement for parents who can’t pay the school fee to bring used plastic bottles. Our partner from ACI comes to collect the used plastic bottles in exchange for cash.

What would you advise other Nigerian youths to do in the absence of employment?

My advice to other youths out there is to start something positive with their lives. They should not wait for government to do everything. The government cannot employ everybody at the same time and there is no excuse to engage in social vices. They should start something, no matter how small. They should not sit back and say they won’t do anything meaningful with their lives because the government has not come to their aid.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]