FUOYE explains why it reviewed medical, acceptance fees
The Management of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti in Ekiti State, has explained why it reviewed the institution’s medical and acceptance fees.

The university authorities, in a statement signed by the Director of Administration in the Vice-Chancellor’s Office, Mr. Sunday Olatunbosun, said that FUOYE did not make any significant increment in fees, except for medical and acceptance fees for justifiable causes.

The statement reads in part, “Our medical fee now has to be N10,000, while the acceptance fee is now N50,000. Fees in federal universities are usually not unilaterally fixed. There are levels of consultations among stakeholders, which have been done or ongoing.

“As to whether we can cope with a lower acceptance fee because we are a federal university, this is not true, because the university met many uncompleted projects and we have had to complete them from our meagre resources.

“Examples include the Central Administration, the three-in-one laboratory where we were given only half the sum by the government. There is also the newly completed hostel and the engineering workshop in Ikole, among other projects.

“There are many developmental projects ongoing on the two campuses of FUOYE. Whatever we do in Oye, we have to replicate in Ikole.

“Previously, we had all our 100 level students in Oye, but now, because of security and convenience of students, we have moved the first-year students in the faculties of Engineering and Agriculture to Ikole campus; and this means that so many facilities that we already have in Oye campus, such as the large lecture theatres, the sports complex, lecture rooms, offices and others, have to be replicated on Ikole campus.

“To execute these projects, we need money. But even at that, there hasn’t been any significant increment in our fees, except in some faculties and departments where some special fees have been suggested for practical workshops.

“We should look at what is currently obtainable in other universities. Acceptance fee in a state-owned university, for instance, is currently N57,000 generally for their students. For medical and engineering students, their acceptance fee is over N100,000 currently. Ours is not even near such amount.

“Besides, on a daily basis, we have to expend more money on managing the university, and getting so many projects done as demanded by our students.

“We put on the generators as early as 6am and put them off at 10pm on a daily basis and we all know the cost of diesel.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]