Don urges JAMB, CBT proprietors to sign MoU
Dayo Ojerinde

The Dean, School of Technology, Yaba College of Technology, Dr Peter Okoli, has urged the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board and proprietors of Computer Based Test Centres in the country to have a memorandum of understanding to better serve exam writers better.

Okoli at an event organised by Computer Based Test Centres Proprietors Association in Lagos recently said the MoU will strengthen the public-private partnership that exists between the two parties.

Speaking on the topic, Technology Remedy to the Challenges in the Education Sector, Okoli said technology could be used to address the challenges in the education sector.

He listed the challenges in the sector to include, poor enrolment in schools, under-funding of the education sector, corruption and exam malpractices.

He challenged the CBT operators to be proactive and move with technological advancement, collaborate with other stakeholders in the education sector, and also ensure that they have a cordial relationship with the Federal Government.

The president of the association, Mr Maxwell Akwuruoha, said its members were out to help JAMB curb exam malpractices and corrupt practices in the Nigeria education sector.

Akwuruoha lamented the lack of a memorandum between JAMB and CBT proprietors as a major cause of lack of commitment and motivation from both parties.

He said, “In as much as CBT proprietors qualify to be termed partners in progress based on our investments, vital roles we play from registration to the conduct of the JAMB UTME exams and even post-registration portal services, there is no known document that defines this serious national project.

“In specific terms, aside periodically meetings with CBT proprietors, during which instructions are only passed down to proprietors, both parties cannot ascertain through a tangible document.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]