Gunmen attack another Kaduna school, kidnap principal
Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna

Unknown gunmen have kidnapped the Principal of Government Technical College, Mararaban Kajuru in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State, in a raid which took place in the wee hours of Thursday.

The Kaduna State Police Command confirmed the incident and gave the name of the abducted principal as Mr Francis Maji.

This incident occurred just a week after gunmen kidnapped six female pupils, Vice Principal and a Matron at the Engravers College, Kakau Daji in Chikun Local Government Area of the state.

A teacher in the school, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the gunmen, numbering over 20, had stormed the school compound around 12.00am, shooting sporadically into the air and made their way to their victim’s residence and took him away.

He said the incident forced the pupils, who were asleep when the gunmen arrived in the compound, to scamper for safety.

“The pupils, their teachers and other members of the school’s staff to wake up from sleep. They ran in different directions for their dear lives. It wasn’t a pleasant experience at all,” he said.

Confirming the incident, the Deputy Public Relations Officer of the State Command, ASP Suleiman Abubakar said the Divisional Police Officer received information about the invasion.

He said, “The Command received information through DPO Kajuru, in the early hours of today 10/10/2019, at about 0220hrs , group of Armed Men Invaded Government Technical College Kajuru, a Boarding Secondary School in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna state and started shooting sporadically in the process abducted one Mr. Francis Maji the Principal of the school.

“On receipt of the information, team of Policemen were immediately mobilized to the area with a view to rescuing the victim and arresting the perpetrators. The Police timely intervention help in preventing the hoodlums From gaining access to the students hostel. The Command has also fortified security within the general area.”

READ ALSO: Kwara Assembly seeks prosecution of ex-revenue boss

The spokesman added that the assurance that the command was working round the clock to tame the recent change of tactics by the enemies of peace who now resort to soft targets.

The CP, he said, also called on the general public and particularly parents not to be deterred by the recent attack by hoodlums on schools, as the Command was making relentless efforts to prevent future occurrence of the unfortunate incident.

“The Command wants to assure the good people of the State that, it remained resolute in its commitment to safety of all citizens, as that is, its onerous responsibility,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]