Babalakin urges FG to encourage quality education
Dayo Ojerinde

The National President of the Government College Ibadan Old Boys Association, Dr Wale Babalakin, has urged the federal and state governments to endeavor to return to providing quality education in the country.

He made this call in Lagos at a briefing organised by GCIOBA to commemorate the 90th anniversary of GCI, which was created in 1929.

Babalakin described half-baked education as dangerous to the larger society and the individuals involved.

He said that salvaging the education sector is the duty of every Nigerian.

“If government decides to fund education, then government must fund good quality education. That is the bedrock of civilisation. Those who want education for everybody are on the right track but they should know the cost of it. The worst status is an half educated person. He is a danger to himself and to the society. Everyone should see the building of the educational system as our challenge.

“It’s a waste of time to continue the blame game. We the old students of GCI have decided that we have a clear knowledge of the quality education we got and we intend to provide for them, what we had. It will be challenging, but it is the best way to impact the lives of these pupils. Quality education is not rocket science, we had good education till a certain period in Nigeria,” he said.

Recounting his days as a pupil of GCI, Babalakin said that GCI as was a hub of of excellence. He lamented that nowadays many parents pay exorbitant school fees for their children and wards without getting good results for the efforts.

He said, “Many people have sent their wards to expensive schools and get far less quality education than we got for very modest resources.

“It has been very difficult to pick the group to celebrate. So, we chose two areas out of about 20 areas. We chose those who have done so well in the creative arts because GCI boys have efficiently explored this area. The people include, Prof T. M. Aluko; Director General of Nigeria Broadcasting Corporation, Dr Christopher Kolade; Nobel Laurette, Prof Wole Soyinka; a playwright, Emeritus Prof, English and Drama Prof Femi Osofisan; Prof Bode Sowande and Cyprian Ekwensi.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]