ASUU threatens to sanction uncooperative VCs
The Academic Staff Union of Universities has threatened that it would sanction some university vice chancellors who may have been “uncooperative” in the ongoing strike by the lecturers.

Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi, ASUU President, said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria on Tuesday in Abuja.

NAN reports that ASUU had commenced an indefinite strike on November 5, 2018, demanding for increased funding of the university education by the Federal Government.

Ogunyemi was reacting to the allegation that some vice chancellors have been intimidating lecturers in their institution and have ordered them back to the classroom, while some have reportedly commenced examinations.

According to him, the union may be preparing for a confrontation with some of the vice chancellors that have defaulted and failed to cooperate.

READ ALSO: Do not travel to Venezuela, US urges citizens

“The attitude of some of these vice chancellors is worrisome; the union will be prepared to engage such vice chancellor when the ongoing strike is suspended or called off, ” he said.

He expressed regret over some members of the union, who choose to betray their conscience by opting out of the strike.

He added that such members who may be aggrieved ought to take opportunity of available internal mechanism for resolving such crisis, saying that the union will address the issues at the appropriate time.

Ogunyemi, however, noted that there are reasons some members may have opted out of the action in some campuses.

According to him, some vice chancellors are uncooperative even though they will benefit from the university system that ASUU is agitating for.

“In some places, some of them will misapply the fund. That is why there will continue to be crisis, so when we go back, we are going to engage many of the vice chancellors.

“Like in some state universities, their governors are playing the ostrich, pretending to be funding their universities.

“Today, we call many state universities TETFund universities because the bulk of their capital projects in the last ten years came from TETFund support and lately, the NEEDS assessment grant.

“Governors, who own such universities, will be giving their vice chancellors directive to go and open the universities.

“They are just not being sincere to themselves because they are actually not doing what is expected of them.

“Another reason is that some of our members are aggrieved for reasons best known to them. Some have threatened to pull out of ASUU and go their own way.

“When you take it on the balance, you find out that within their inner self, they are not opposed to what we are asking for because the Earned Academic Allowances will go to them, revitalisation fund and the salary shortfall, it will be refunded to them,” he said.

According to him, at the end of the day, it is a matter of conscience.

(NAN)