I used to conduct maths classes for shoes as a child – Olagunju
Aishat Olagunju, 20, graduated from Bowen University, Osun State, with a first class in Mathematics. In this interview with TUNDE AJAJA, she shares the secret to her success and her plans for the future

Have you always had good performance in your previous schools or things got better when you got to the higher institution?

My performance was good in my previous schools, but things definitely got better when I got to the higher institution. For example, taking the West African Senior School Certificate Examination and the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination was not quite easy, but by God’s grace I passed very well. When I got to the university, I had to improve on my performance and thank God my hard work paid off.

Some students believe that graduating with a first-class degree starts from setting it as a goal while others feel it will come naturally from hard work. Did you plan towards excelling like that when you got to school or was it through divine providence?

Yes, actually. I made a promise to my father that I would graduate with a first-class degree in mathematics and I’m glad I made it. I agree with the belief that when you set a goal, it gives you something to look forward to, unlike when there is nothing to provide a benchmark for one’s performance. And with that, average performance could seem good enough. However, achieving a goal goes beyond drafting a plan. Like we all know; nothing good comes easy, so it wasn’t like a bed of roses, neither was it like doing the unthinkable task. Overall, apart from hard work, I thank God I made it.

When you told your parents that you graduated with a first-class degree, how did they receive the news, especially your mum?

They were both happy and that was quite exciting for me. My mum was proud of me, and she still is. The joy of parents when their children do well in their academics is best imagined. I’m glad I made them happy.

Mathematics still scares a number of people. What was the attraction for you?

Mathematics is one course I have always wanted to study because I never struggled with it and so that was what I applied to study. It comes easy; it is like breathing. I understand that some people tend to have difficulty with the course, but whenever I’m faced with this question, my response is why not mathematics? And that is because mathematics is in everything we do as humans. The philosophical reply is that where there is life, there is mathematics. It’s a beautiful course that I’m very passionate about. On a lighter note; someone once asked me if I ever found that X that is always missing in mathematics. I smiled and I felt that person didn’t understand that the X is every problem that needs solving. And that’s what mathematics is about; solving problems. I’m recommending mathematics to everyone who desires to solve any problem in life. I remember my final year project, Applications of Semi Groups, where I applied semi groups to biology, sociology, formal language, automata, etc. Anyone who can solve simple mathematical problems can solve simple problems of the society. Maybe one day, we will apply principles of mathematics to solve the problems in our country one after the other. So, for students who are still contemplating if they want to study mathematics, they should not listen to what anyone may say to scare them. Just go ahead and study it and make sure you excel in it.

Did your parents support your choice or they had another course in mind for you?

This is a story on its own. I have two brothers; one is an engineer and the other one is a lawyer (in training). So, my mum wanted me to be a doctor so it would be a complete taste. But I didn’t have passion for medicine; I mean if I’m about to commit seven years of my life to studying a course, then it means my passion has to be strong and sufficient. I told her if it’s a doctor she wants then I would go for my PhD so she could still get a doctor. I didn’t allow them to fill in any other course except mathematics in my UTME form and I’m glad I made that choice.

What part of the course did you enjoy the most and were there parts you didn’t really like?

I enjoyed it all; some more than the other, though. But the most enjoyable for me was when I was presented with a formula, a problem, and I had to find the solution. It was and is still exhilarating. Some people feel it’s all about calculations, but it’s not all about that. It never was and it never will be. It is complex and beautiful in its own way. There were semesters I didn’t use my calculator throughout and I was simply reading.

What was your reading pattern like?

I can’t estimate how much I read and how much sleep I got. However, I read and slept as I wished. One thing I never did was to deprive myself of sleep, because sleep is very important to everyone’s well-being and I didn’t want to deny myself of its benefits. It was only once in my third year that I remember denying myself of sleep. I had to take a test the next day; Abstract Algebra II, so I didn’t sleep that night. And that was the first and last time it happened.

Were you a lover of the library or you rarely used it?

I can count the number of times I visited the library. I only went there occasionally. That is why it’s good for students to know what works best for them because there are people who cannot but use the library.

What was the greatest sacrifice you made for your academic work?

I read a lot of books; novels and the like, but I had to reduce that so it would not disturb my studies. I was determined not to fail, even though I had to acquire knowledge in other areas of life.

For students contemplating studying the course on the basis of its job prospects, what would you tell them?

A mathematician can work anywhere. They can work in a bank, a school, financial institution, engineering firms, insurance companies, academic research institutes, and many others. That was why I said where there is life, there is mathematics.

Some students who study this course go for the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria’s certification and some go for postgraduate degree in statistics. What are your aspirations?

I would like to teach, I mean lecture, which surprisingly, was one of my aspirations as a young child. Of course, as it’s typical of children, I wanted to be a lot of things; singer, a dancer, an artist and a teacher, and I still do. But being a teacher is somewhat a priority. Ultimately, I want to be a professor of mathematics.

What was your happiest moment as an undergraduate?

My happiest moment was when I had my first 5.00 Grade Point Average. I was so happy that I resembled the Joker. And I won’t forget my saddest moment, which was when I performed woefully in a test.

When did you start having GPAs in first-class category?

That was the first semester of my first year and for me, I was determined and willing to do all I needed to do to make my aspiration a success because there really was no option but to graduate with a first-class degree.

Given that private schools are like boarding schools, what was your experience like in your first year, especially at your young age?

I must admit that it was a different experience because I never had to share a room with anyone, being the only girl in my house. But, in school, I found myself sharing a room with five other ladies. It was fun, frustrating, enlightening and eventually a blessing because I made lifelong friends that I wouldn’t trade for anything. Being the first time out of my parents’ sight, that experience taught me tolerance, patience and understanding because no two people are the same, so I can’t expect everybody to think and act the way I do. I had to learn how to compromise.

Were there times you were homesick?

There were too many to count.

Given that you couldn’t prepare your own meals, were there times you missed eating your own food or food prepared by your mum?

Home-cooked meals have no rivals. They are the best. Sometimes, I begged my mum to bring food for me in school. Those days felt like blessings (laughs).

Given the rate of unemployment in Nigeria, were there times it almost affected your dedication to your academic work?

No, because if I had let that sway me, I wouldn’t have achieved what I achieved, which is a process in the kind of woman I want to become.

Were you involved in other school activities apart from academic work?

Yes, I was sociable, especially in my department. I held the position of the welfare coordinator (200 level), Vice president (300 level) and General Secretary/Public Relations Officer (400 level). And at my leisure, I spent time with my friends and I loved to see movies.

Were there awards or scholarships that you won as an undergraduate?

None, really, but upon graduation I got the departmental award as well as Best Mathematics Graduate Award.

What do you think students should do to have your kind of result?

Figure out what works best for you and stick to it. Be focused, set your priorities right, have that mindset that you will be the best. Then work hard towards achieving that and you surely will. Also, in all things, never forget God.

Were there people who saw you as too serious?

Definitely, some people saw me as too serious. In fact, I had a hard time convincing them otherwise.

When you were young, were there times you were coerced into being serious or has it always been self-driven?

For me, coerce is definitely not the word to use. It was more like advice sessions. I had those and they helped.

What fond memories of your growing up do you still have?

I remember that while I was growing up, I used to arrange all the shoes, sandals, slippers (I could find) by the wall. Then I would take a plank, a white chalk and conduct a mathematics class for the shoes, sandals and slippers. The walls of my room were marked with different mathematics sums. I was a mathematics menace while I was growing up.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]