We need young minds to solve Nigeria’s problems – Aboderin-Talabi
Tare Youdeowei

A children’s picture book writer and Founding Publisher of Clever Clogs Books, Mrs Olabunmi Aboderin-Talabi, has said that Nigeria needs fresh, young minds to solve her myriad problems and move her forward.

Aboderin-Talabi said this at the unveiling of a library improvement project for the Dominican Group of Schools, Mafoluku, Lagos, organised by Clever Clogs Books and PEA Foundation on Wednesday.

She said young minds can only make an impact if constantly exposed to immense knowledge by reading a large variety of books.

The event, which was borne out of the desire of a Basic Six pupil of the school, Miss Oluebubechukwu Nwokeoma, to improve the school’s collection of books in the library during her tenure as library prefect, saw Aboderin-Talabi enlighten the pupils on the importance of reading books.

In her keynote address entitled, Lifelong benefits of reading, she said, “We need fresh young minds to solve the nation’s problems, innovate, view life differently and proffer solutions to challenges that we face. This can only be done by reading and gathering knowledge.

“Some of the lifelong benefits of reading are improved vocabulary, knowledge, memory and self-confidence. It also helps with the ability to communicate and solve problems. Reading regularly enhances your critical reasoning, keeps you up-to-date, keeps you abreast of novel ideas and shows you what goals to achieve. “Furthermore, reading widely helps you see life from another perspective. It literarily hands you the keys to your destination because it shows you what is possible and defines what you want out of life. Unless you read, you will not know the numerous and dynamic career paths available and viable in these times.”

On productive reading habits, Aboderin-Talabi, who is also the Chairperson of Women In Business, advised the pupils to have a library in their homes, spend lesser time in watching television, surfing the Internet and to read a book every day, week and month, as well as to convert random time to read anywhere, be it in the bathroom, at the dining room, on a bus or during break.

In her remark, the Head of School, Dominican Nursery and Primary School, Rev. Sr. Caroline Igwe, expressed her appreciation to the donors. She said, “It is a thing of tremendous honour that you chose our school as the beneficiary of this great initiative. We appreciate you for this huge contribution to the life and development of our Dominican School community.

“We also appreciate our little angel, Miss Oluebubechukwu, for this memorable legacy that you and your family are leaving for the school. It is my belief that through this laudable initiative, many of our pupils will be challenged to read more books and empower themselves with knowledge. I believe that the only way we can create global peace is through educating not only our minds but our hearts and souls.

“This event shows our determination to catalyse national effort towards advancing literacy in Nigeria. I challenge you all to read as many books as possible so as to improve yourselves and become repertoires of knowledge. As a result, there is a need to visit a library frequently.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]