Mathematics education key to credible elections – Ugbebor
Tare Youdeowei

The first female professor of Mathematics in Nigeria, Olabisi Ugbebor, has said that the knowledge of Mathematics and its application to research and forecasting can play a key role in ensuring credible elections in the country.

Ugbebor said this on Thursday at the 2019 Annual Mathematics Conference and Exhibition organised by the Mathematics for Life Foundation in Victoria Island, Lagos.

Speaking on the theme, The Mathematics of election: Choices, voting and outcomes, she urged the Federal Government to promote a functional Mathematics education among all Nigerians and to apply it in such a way as to make the country a better place.

Ugbebor said, “A strong correlation exists between the understanding of Mathematics and its pursuit to research level, on one hand and economic prosperity on the other.

“A key area of our system where Mathematics education will prove useful is in the strengthening of the electoral process. An example is the reduction of voting time and improvement on voting experience.

“Research has shown that some people will spend up to seven and a half minutes in the voting booth because they have no knowledge of pattern recognition. As such, they have trouble understanding the patterns on display in the ballot papers. So, ensuring that every citizen gets this very basic education can help to reduce voting time and improve overall voting experience.”

Also, a professor at the University of Alaska, USA, Godwin Chukwu, said that Mathematics would play an important role in the electoral process.

Chukwu said that analyses using mathematical models could serve as central tools for political parties to choose the most viable candidates to represent their parties, as he spoke on the sub theme, Predicting accuracy of election outcomes: Impact on census data and other factors.

He said, “Data from polls, public opinion, approval ratings and past trends could be aggregated and used to predict election outcomes. Data from census, voter registers and actual election results could be fed into mathematical models to check for discrepancies in results and thus keep the system in check.

“However, we should be careful about the use of election prediction tools in Nigeria because of the nature of the political system. Unusually high variability in the factors that influence election outcomes in Nigeria would limit the accuracy of election predictions, however, under normal circumstances the tools would work well and contribute towards improving the overall system.”

On his part, the President of the foundation, Mr Omoniyi Osuntuyi, said that Mathematics had the potential to serve as a tool to better the quality of life of Nigerians and it would be an important tool in the forthcoming election.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]