Kolade, Adebule want more girls involved in STEM
Tare Youdeowei

The Chancellor of McPherson University, Seriki-Sotayo, Ogun State, Dr Christopher Kolade, has said that more girls should be encouraged to take an interest in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics.

Kolade said this during the second edition of the Stemma Hands-on Empowerment Initiative’s Science and Technology Fair recently organised by the Christopher Kolade Foundation in Lagos.

Also the Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Dr Idiat Adebule, who attended the event, advised parents to encourage their daughters who had shown an interest in STEM and disregard the notion that only boys could cope with science subjects.

In his welcome address, Kolade said the fair was aimed at drawing the attention of girls to STEM because there was a need for Nigeria to catch up with and surpass the developed nations of the world, in terms of development and technological advancement.

He said, “One day, these young girls are going to take charge and make Nigeria as great as it deserves to be. Any decision you take today, the effect will come long after today. As such, it is wrong to call the youth leaders of tomorrow. We are saying that you are today’s leaders waiting for tomorrow’s opportunity. This means you are entitled to take some decisions today in order to take competent decisions tomorrow. To do that, you have to have a vision of what tomorrow is going to look like.

“That is why we have focused your attention on STEM, which the world is using to establish the track record for tomorrow so that Nigeria will hold her head high among other countries of the world. We must start doing things that will qualify us to be leaders of nations tomorrow. We have a longer distance to travel to catch up. So we need to go past them to get to the top.”

On her part, the deputy governor said the mindset of girls ought to change towards science. “The stereotype of girls not studying science subjects should be removed totally because the world is changing and we have to catch up. The initiative is to propel interest in STEM, encourage girls to improve their skills and be whatever they want to be.

“The theme is apt because the false impression that only boys can succeed in science should be a thing of the past. Parents and guardians should also be included in the awareness campaign because they fuel the stereotype. The mindset of girls needs to be changed towards science and opportunities like these need to be made to help them grow. It is important that they have a good knowledge of STEM to excel in any career path they choose,” Adebule said.

While delivering the keynote lecture themed, Building a Balanced Pipeline for Tomorrow’s Science and Technology Workforce, the guest speaker, Onyeche Tifase, said that women were fast becoming the preferred gender in recruitment because they usually did not inflate their abilities.

He said, “Engineering is all about solving problems. Women are now becoming the preferred gender because they tend to say less of what they are capable of, as opposed to men who sometimes inflate their abilities.

“Education is beyond what you are taught in the classroom, it is also about what you are doing for your society. We need to enhance the economy to put an end to the brain drain. The biggest opportunity still rests in Nigeria because challenges beget opportunity. Growing up with the knowledge that technology counts and that you have the power to provide solutions, whch are unique to us, will change things and move the nation forward. As such, if we don’t focus on the values and attitudes of our youths, they would lose a lot of opportunities.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]