IGS alumni lament Ekiti govt’s neglect of alma mater
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Ifaki Grammar School Old Students’ Association has lamented the neglect of their alma mater, following the takeover of its compound by the Ekiti State Government for the defunct University of Science and Technology, Ifaki Ekiti.

IGSOSA National President, Prof Gbenga Aribisala, said that pupils of the school were abandoned by the government at Methodist Girls’ High School, Ifaki Ekiti, where they were tenants for 10 years before the association relocated them last year to a new site earmarked by the government 11 years ago.

Aribisala, who spoke at Ifaki Ekiti during the 2019 Annual General Meeting of the association, appealed to the state government to provide the school with adequate facilities.

“The state government took over the school, which was one of the best secondary schools in the country, from us.

“Right now, it is being used as a campus of the Ekiti State University. We want the government to come and help us,” he said.

Aribisala, who also led members of the association to the groundbreaking ceremony of a N17m five-classroom block scheduled for completion by the end of February, said the government only provided two blocks of classrooms and a hall at the new site of the school and “abandoned” the pupils at MGHS.

He said the old pupils of IGS across the world would only support their school and not “build a school for government”, adding that they had mobilised funds to provide some necessary facilities, including a borehole, gate, toilet facilities and sports field.

He said, “You can imagine what we lost when we were tenants for 10 years at MGHS. The population of our pupils was going down. The principal has said that just between September 2018 when we moved the pupils down to this place and today, pupil enrolment has risen from 461 to 531. This shows that we need the state government to provide the necessary facilities in the school.”

The school’s pioneer senior prefect, Pastor Adedayo Ojo, called on the state government to make the school conducive for learning by providing the necessary infrastructures, equipment, laboratories and more, so as to enable the pupils to study in a very conducive environment.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]