Teachers laud FG’s move to harmonise BECE
Tare Youdeowei

Primary and secondary school teachers in the country have described the Federal Government’s recent decision to harmonise the Basic Education Certificate Examination as a positive move in the right direction.

The teachers noted that harmonising the BECE across Nigeria would help to uphold true federalism by ensuring equality in the education sector and the gradual elimination of the quota system.

The Federal Government had, during the annual meeting of Registrars, Chief Executive Officers of States and Federal Capital Territory examination bodies held last Tuesday, said that plans were underway to harmonise the examination in all the states of the federation.

Speaking through a Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Education, Mr Sunny Echono, who was represented by the Director of Basic Education in the ministry, Mr Prinzo James, the government had explained that harmonising procedures and standards in the conduct of the examination became necessary to eliminate disparities and ensure a generally accepted standard.

Reacting to the development, a teacher in the Ikorodu area of Lagos, Mr Johnson Tayo said, “I think it is a good development in a sense that we will be getting the same uniformity that we are getting at the level of the West African Senior School Certificate Examination. The same examination will be taken at the same time all over the country.

“These pupils are going to meet at higher institutions and it is important that they are made to take the same examination since it is the same national curriculum that is being followed. This plan will bring harmonisation.”

Tayo urged the Federal Government to review the quota system used in admitting pupils to tertiary institutions. “The disparity in the admission process where candidates from some parts of the country are admitted to tertiary institutions of their choice, even after getting lower scores than other candidates in the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination, amounts to corruption. All the candidates went through the same system. It is unfair to those who worked hard and scored higher.”

Also, Mr Tony Ali, a retired teacher in Benin City, capital of Edo State, expressed the opinion that the harmonisation would help to check examination malpractice, if followed through.

He said, “Although the examiners have alternate questions, pupils taking the examination later could still study questions from other states and have an advantage. So, having everyone take the examination at the same time will reduce malpractice.

“Another advantage of the harmonisation is that the forced uniformity in the school calendar will enable things to run smoothly. Perhaps, under a different system, the states would have been able to control of their education systems and determine the examinations that suit their environment, but in the system we have, uniformity and harmonisation are important.”

On her part, Mrs Adebola Jones, a teacher based in Lagos, commended the plan because she foresaw a system that would cut costs for many states. “This plan will cut costs for the examination bodies. Instead of paying different examiners to set different questions for the different states, the national examination will just be one set of questions. So, in terms of logistics, it will cut costs.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]