Sanction VCs who misappropriated staff allowance, group tells FG
Olufemi Atoyebi, Ibadan

The National Association of Academic Technologists has commended the Federal Government for issuing queries to some indicted vice-chancellors of public universities after the submission of a forensic audit of the N30bn earned allowances released to the schools in 2014.

In a communiqué signed by the Chairman of the group, Sani Suleima, and the General Secretary, Hamilton Iyoyo, at a national executive meeting in Abuja, NAAT called on the government to take a step further by sanctioning the erring VCs.

The group also commended the Federal Government for the release of N8bn earned allowances to the non-teaching staff of federal universities.

The communiqué said, “Government should go beyond the queries and sanction vice-chancellors found culpable, appropriately. Also, university staff that received what was not due to them should be made to refund same. NAAT commends the Federal Government for the recently released N8bn for payment of earned allowances to non-teaching staff of federal universities.

“The union hereby calls on the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, to ensure that the disbursement actually goes to deserving staff, strictly in compliance with the agreements signed between the FG and the respective non-teaching staff unions.”

NAAT also appealed to the VCs of the receiving schools to distribute the fund to their qualified staff without fear of intimidation from other staff unions.

“The Vice-Chancellors of federal universities must not allow themselves to be intimidated or pressured into paying the money to undeserving staff. NAAT stands by the templates derived from the respective agreements, which the unions signed with FG in 2009 and which was tendered at the Joint Action Committee of the non-academic staff unions’ meeting with National University Commission officials on December 20, 2018,” it noted.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]