‘Higher education’s role is to reassert universal values’
Higher education has a key role to play in countering the spread of populism and nationalism and tackling global challenges such as poverty and climate change, by reasserting universal values of human dignity and the value of science and research, UNESCO’s education chief, Stefania Giannini, said last week.

Competition between universities and between countries will be increasingly about human capital, she warned. Countries that are able to attract talented and very qualified people and give them opportunities to improve their competences will be the most competitive.

But the same countries will also build more inclusive societies “because a strong higher education system, at the national level, can help to lessen social tensions, help people to be tolerant and to know different cultures, religions and languages better.”

UNESCO, as the UN and leading international organisation dedicated to education, science and culture, maybe battling in a difficult context of rising opposition to multilateralism and globalisation, but its mission, to build peace ‘in the minds of men’, still has much to offer the world, she told journalists in London, especially in the current context.

She said that globalisation, although it had enabled people to live, learn and work in different countries, had become a negative word for many common people facing challenges as a result of it.

“Maybe now it is time to get back to a universal perspective based on human dignity, respect, tolerance, exchange of knowledge of cultures and religions. This is a dimension where education and specifically higher education can play a crucial role.”

She was talking on the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in advance of a wide-ranging speech in which she argued that higher education is a “fundamental human right” and, more than ever, education is the “main infrastructure to build sustainable development and sustainable societies” and should contribute to “society as a whole.”

“Higher education has a frontline role to play in understanding and finding solutions to challenges affecting all countries, including in their ethical dimensions.

“Higher education institutions are vital for advancing inclusive national and regional development, for shaping more resilient and inclusive societies. They are intricately linked to shaping the economic, social and environmental fabric of our world.”

Giannini, who was Italy’s second female rector – leading the University for Foreigners of Perugia, was speaking in London at an event marking the 21st anniversary of the UK’s Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education.

She said the world was witnessing an ongoing revolution in higher education that UNESCO, as the only United Nations agency with a mandate in this field, has a responsibility to guide, with all its partners, towards inclusion, relevance and excellence for all students.

Quality assurance is key to survival

“It is a revolution mirroring accelerating globalisation, demographic shifts and quantum leaps in technology that are profoundly transforming how we live, work and learn, even blurring the boundaries of what it means to be human.

“I would argue that quality assurance is co-substantial with the very survival of a university, and of our responsibility towards generations of learners.”

She said that, although there was a tradition of excellence in some of the oldest universities, every university’s challenge today is to provide high-quality programmes that meet students’ expectations, inspire them to be creative, open-minded and innovative, to be critical thinkers with the ambition and knowledge to take up the complex and interdependent challenges of our times.

“We need to build inclusive, accessible and open systems of excellence, and ones that are accountable.”

She pointed to two important developments that are changing or challenging the role of universities.

Source: universityworldnews.com