Engineer charges varsities, polytechnics on innovation
Adekunle Peter, Benin

A System engineer, Dr Ama Amadasun, has advised the management of universities and polytechnics to make use of available natural materials to contribute immensely to the development of the country.

He said this while delivering a lecture themed, Leveraging ICT Towards Practice in the Digital Age: Software Tools as Catalysts for Innovation, at the Usen Polytechnic, Usen in Edo State.

Amadasun charged academicians and students to prioritise projects in innovative product design and deployment so as to contribute meaningfully to Nigeria’s economic advancement.

He said that available natural materials could be put to use to create new products in building technology, software design, manufacturing, medicine and energy production.

Stressing that the exploitation of natural resources was indispensable in the development of a strong economy, Amadasun urged the Federal Government and state s to prioritise efforts that stimulate and drive technological advancement and deployment.

“Natural materials like bamboo trees, metals and steel can be used to manufacture items, such as furniture, bicycles, keyboards, mouse, monitors for computers as well as building materials for the production of fences, gates and wardrobes,” he said.

He urged students of the polytechnic to take advantage of the advancement in modern technology to deploy software tools in the development of new products that drive development.

The Rector of the institution, Prof. Abiodun Falodun, said the polytechnic had grown in the last year and explained that Amadasun was one of the numerous lecturers in the Diaspora who had been engaged to entrench the institution’s internationalisation drive.

According to him, “With this lecture, we are announcing to the world the ongoing effort to reposition this institution as a first-rate tertiary institution that fosters intellectual development. We are ensuring that scholars share their thoughts with the host community, the media and the country at large so that they can stimulate debate and entrench the culture of interrogating and questioning backdated ideas.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]