AAU reopens for lectures
Adekunle Peter, Benin

Some lecturers of the Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma in Edo State, on Monday commenced academic activities in defiance of the directives of the Academic Staff Union of Universities.

This is even as the university authorities confirmed that the institution opened for academic activities to get funding to meet its financial obligations.

The spokesman for the university, Mr Edward Aihevba, stated that the monthly subvention from the Edo State Government only met 45 per cent of its staff salaries and the balance was paid from school fees.

He said the university could either be in solidarity with ASUU or sink. “We are between the devil and deep blue sea. If we stay in the strike, we will sink. It is better we stay afloat while other universities carry on the strike.

“Our university has been in solidarity with other universities who will have the full benefit of the strike action. We are funded by our state government. About 45 per cent of our salary requirement is what we get from the state government and we get the balance from our IGR, which comprises school fees paid by students. This means that we cannot afford to let our students remain at home.

“We are determined in this university not to scatter the academic calendar. After the strike, the benefits coming to us are in the long term. Right now, the students are the ones paying the fees. We don’t want the students to be half-baked.”

Meanwhile, the Chairman of the AAU chapter of ASUU, Prof. Monday Igbafen, accused the university management of threatening to sack ASUU members who defied the directives to resume work.

Igbafen said the lecturers found in the classrooms were on temporary appointment and those suspended from the union. He wondered why the school’s management was against the ASUU strike, even as it benefitted N5.4bn from TETFund and NEEDs assessment due to the ASUU struggle.

His words, “We are still on strike. There is no faction of ASUU here. The VC is broke and he wants to collect school fees. We won’t be compelled or intimidated to call off the strike action. The only body that can call off the strike is the national body. This whole resumption thing is a game by the university, which is renting people to be in the classrooms as lecturers. We advise parents to keep their children away from the university campus.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]