Wrong perception affecting technical, vocational education –FG
Adekunle Peter, Benin

The Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, has said that wrong perception is affecting the enrolment of candidates into various technical and vocational education institutions, as well as assessment and certification programmes in the country.

Adamu, who was represented by a director in the ministry, Mrs Olubukola Adedigbe, also said the dearth of qualified instructors, lack of learning materials and ill-equipped workshops were the challenges militating against technical and vocational education in the country.

Speaking at the National Business and Technical Examination Board’s exhibition and roundtable on skills assessment, the minister said, “In recognising the relevance of skill qualifications towards the acceleration of national industrial rebirth, the ministry, in collaboration with stakeholders and partners, facilitates the institutionalisation of a six-level National Skills Qualification Framework in Nigeria,” he said.

Also, the Governor Godwin Obaseki advocated the review of the technical education curriculum to meet the demands of the 21st century.

The governor, who was represented by the Commissioner for Employment and Wealth Creation, Emmanuel Usoh, noted that stakeholders often placed emphasis on paper qualification and overlooked skill qualification, which he described as paramount to the nation’s development.

He stressed the need to emphasise technical education and de-emphasise paper qualification, saying that a skilled person certified by the NABTEB could function effectively anywhere in the world.

On his part, the NABTEB Registrar, Prof. Ifeoma Isiugo-Abanihe, said the board and its stakeholders were faced with the challenge of filling existing gaps in providing training and verifying emerging new trades for the 21st-century job market.

She said the Federal Government introduced the Nigeria Skills Qualification to tackle the deficiencies in the national system of skills training and assessment.

The registrar also explained that the NSQ assessment procedure recognised the certification-based skills that people already possessed.

Isiugo-Abanihe also gave the assurance that the board would create a mass of trained verifiers to accommodate the increasing demand for skill qualifications. She urged training institutions to train internal verifiers.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]