FG orders arrest of promoters of illegal tertiary institutions
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Federal Government, through the Ministry of Education, has directed the arrest and prosecution of the promoters of illegal tertiary institutions in the country, as it put the total number of unlicensed universities at 66 and that of unlicensed polytechnics, monotechnics and colleges of education at 68.

Giving this order on Friday in Abuja, the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, noted that the government would work with the relevant security agencies to crack down on all illegal tertiary institutions in the country so that admission seekers would not fall into wrong hands.

Adamu said the institutions had no admission quota and ran unaccredited courses with practically no standards, in addition to their products being “half-baked and unemployable.”

The minister said, “I use this opportunity to direct all regulatory agencies in the public education sector, namely, the National Universities Commission, the National Commission for Colleges of Education and the National Board for Technical Education to work with relevant security agencies to immediately crack down hard on all illegal tertiary institutions.

“The promoters of such institutions should immediately be apprehended and prosecuted. Let me warn that the days of treating those institutions with kid’s gloves are over. The process of accreditation of tertiary institutions has been streamlined and there is no reason, whatsoever, for any institution not to come forward for proper accreditation.

“The incidence of illegal providers of tertiary education is more notorious in the university sub-sector than the polytechnic sub-sector. To this end, 66 illegal degree mills have been identified by the NUC. It is also crucial to state that while some of these illegal providers are operating illegal institutions based in Nigeria, some are online in unapproved linkages and affiliations with substandard foreign institutions that have no accreditation or recognition of regulatory bodies either in Nigeria or their home countries.

“The proliferation of these institutions has made the job of regulatory agencies in the sector very difficult. Such institutions also default in taxes. They do not keep to the rules of the game. They have no admission quota; they run unaccredited courses with practically no standards. Their products are half-baked and unemployable.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]