FG to train 100 ex-militants in vocational skills
Peter Dada, Akure

The Federal Government, through the Presidential Amnesty Programme, has said that it will commence vocational training for 100 ex-militants in the Niger Delta.

The Coordinator, Presidential Amnesty Programme and Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta Affairs, Prof. Charles Dokubo, who stated this during the commissioning of the Oil and Gas Vocational Training Centre in Agadagba-Obon, Ese-Odo Local Government Area of Ondo State, also said the government would partner the Petroleum Training Institute, Effurun in Delta State for the training and certification of the trainees.

Stressing that the training centre would offer basic skills in oil and gas, power, maritime and agriculture, as well as other areas that focus on the industry needs of the region and country, Dokubo said, “I realised that so much money was being expended on the facilitation of vocational training for our delegates in privately owned vocational training centres managed by individuals. I made it clear that during my time, as the chief executive of the programme, approval will not be given to the training of any of our delegates at vocational training facilities outside this country. About 100 of the ex-agitators will be having their training here for the first phase in the next nine months.

“A firm based in the United Kingdom, in conjunction with the Petroleum Training Institute, designed the required curriculum for the proper certification of the trainees of the centre as approved by the National Business and Technical Examination Board.”

The coordinator advised the ex-militants to make proper use of the facilities at the centre, while he gave them the assurance that they could take up jobs in any part of the world after the training.

While inaugurating the centre, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for providing the facility in the state.

Represented by his deputy, Mr Agboola Ajayi, the governor said the amnesty programme had transformed the entire region in the area of capacity building.

Akeredolu appealed to the Federal Government to ensure that more people in Ondo were integrated into the amnesty programme.

He also urged the people of the area, especially the trainees, to make good use of the facility.

“Our people should exploit this opportunity. We should not play with it. We should guard it and take it as our project so that we will take over the oil industry as already planned by Mr Dokubo. It is a wonderful thing,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]