LASU suspends remittance of ASUU members’ check-off dues
The Lagos State University has suspended the remittance of check-off dues for lecturers who are members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities.

The university Spokesman, Mr Ademola Adekoya, made this known to the News Agency of Nigeria on Monday in Lagos.

Adekoya said that the remittance of the check-off dues into the union’s bank accounts remained suspended, pending when the management and operation of the accounts would be properly regularised.

“In the circumstance, the Vice-Chancellor, in the exercise of his supervisory and general responsibility to council to maintain good order in the university, has directed the immediate suspension of remittance of check-off dues of members of the union.

“The remittance of check-off dues into ASUU-LASU bank accounts remained suspended pending when the management and operation of the account(s) are properly regularised,” he said.

Adekoya said the management’s decision followed the receipt of a petition signed by about 70 per cent of the ASUU-LASU members.

According to him, the petition alleged that the union’s erstwhile chairman, Dr Isaac Oyewunmi, was still part of those operating the bank account of the union, in spite of being a staff of another institution.

NAN reports that the LASU Governing Council, on September 7, 2017 dismissed Oyewunmi for misconduct bordering on extortion of money from students and Dr Adebowale Adeyemi-Suenu, the erstwhile vice- Chairman of ASUU-LASU, for misconduct bordering on manipulation of students’ results.

Adekoya said by virtue of their dismissal, they ceased to be members of ASUU-LASU. “Reports reaching the management confirmed that both Oyewunmi and Adeyemi-Suenu had illegally been collecting monthly allowances of N50,000 each from the general monthly deductions of ASUU-LASU members. The petitioners further alleged that the management is acting in concert with the executive of ASUU-LASU to defraud members of ASUU-LASU.

“The summary of the response of the Secretary ASUU-LASU is that the above issues concern the internal workings of the union and relates to the interpretation of the union’s constitution and code of practice. The relevant financial institutions of the union’s bank account have, however, confirmed that Oyewunmi, as at January 9, 2019, is a signatory to the bank accounts of ASUU-LASU, ” Adekoya said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]