Ekiti to pay teachers N146m rural, core subject allowance
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

Ekiti State Government has released the sum of N146m for the payment of Rural Teachers Allowance and Core Subjects Allowance to teachers in the state.

The Deputy Governor of the state, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, said that 6,203 primary and secondary school teachers serving in rural areas and those teaching core subjects would benefit from the gesture.

The Core Subjects Allowance is paid to public school teachers handling Mathematics, English Language, Physics, Chemistry and Biology while the Rural Teachers Allowance is paid to those serving in rural communities.

Egbeyemi described the gesture as a demonstration of the Dr Kayode Fayemi administration’s commitment to the welfare of teachers and to ensuring meaningful development in the education sector.

While 3,314 teachers serving in rural areas received a total sum of N77.35m, 2,889 core subject teachers were paid N68.72m.

It would be recalled that the two allowances, which came on stream during Fayemi’s first tenure were outside the normal monthly salaries paid to teachers by the state government.

Egbeyemi urged primary and secondary school teachers in Ekiti to reciprocate the gesture and cooperate with the present administration by putting in their best to regain the lost glory of education in the state.

The deputy governor, who noted that the education sub-sector in the state had been enjoying a new lease of life since Fayemi assumed office, listed the reforms in the sector to include the Executive Order banning the collection of illegal levies in public schools and the release of N200m housing and car loans to teachers.

READ ALSO: Two arrested for attempted kidnapping in Niger

Others, according to him, are payment of the West African Examinations Council fees for 13,000 final year pupils in public secondary schools, purchase of 3,000 Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board forms for Ekiti youths and procurement of 552 laptops for selected secondary schools.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]