Balogun advises govt to return history to schools
Dayo Ojerinde

The Chairman of First City Monument Bank, Otunba Subomi Balogun, has advised the Federal Government and the states to return history to the curriculum of primary and secondary schools in the country.

Balogun, who was represented by his son, Mr Bolaji Balogun, said this on Thursday during the presentation of the book, The First Church in Lagos, History of Holy Trinity Church, Ebute-Ero, Lagos — 1852-2016, at Our Saviour’s Church Hall, Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos.

He said, “It saddens me that we no longer teach history in our primary and secondary schools. As a nation, if we fail to know where we are coming from, we won’t know where we are going. The history of the church is important and I say so because, for me, the most important history to ever read is the Holy Bible.

“It is important as a church in this country to share the history of the church with the present and future generations. We must document our history so that generations yet unborn will learn from them.”

The author of the book, Dr Paul Osifodunrin, an associate professor of history at the University of Lagos, said the book would place the church at the centre of the discourse and correct the alteration that has hitherto existed about the history of the church.

“Before now there were many things that we didn’t know about the church, which the book has unravelled. Until now, we used to believe the Holy Trinity Church, Ebute-Ero, was established on January 10, 1852, but through our researchwe found out that the church was actually established on January 11, 1852.

“History is important and it will help us to always set the record straight. We need to go back to history and stop paying lip service to it. The state government should make Holy Trinity Church, Ebute-Ero, a cultural heritage site for being the first church in Lagos,” Osifodunrin said.

The book reviewer, Prof.Dapo Asaju, who is the Vice-Chancellor of Ajayi Crowther University, Oyo, said the author addressed the history of Christianity in Nigeria and established that the Niger Delta was the first contact point of Christianity in the country, not Badagry or Abeokuta as popularly believed.

“The book has eight chapters, 304 pages and it was published in 2018 by University Press Plc. The book is rich in bibliography. It was written in simple language for all to read with appendixes which contain key documents about the church.

“The book has a comment page on the back where key members of the church who have read the book commented. The foreword was written by the retired Bishop of Lagos, Rev. Adebola Ademowo. The first chapter talked about the origin of the church, while the second chapter talked about the growth and development of the church. The third chapter talked about the era of consolidation and challenges. Chapter four was on evangelism; chapter five had to do with education,” Asaju said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]