Increase investment in basic education, don tells FG
David Olorunsogo, Ibadan

A lecturer at the University of Ibadan, Dr Isola Salami, has called on the Federal Government to pay more attention to elementary education by increasing investment in the sub-sector.

Salami made this call during a briefing held at the Cedarville School, Oniyeye Estate, Ibadan on Wednesday.

He said that the future of the country depended on the quality of its basic education. “Human beings’ experience character and personality formation between the ages zero and eight. If you dare expose a child to a good educative environment, then you are sure of building a good character in the child.

“Developed countries do not joke with education at the formative years. It is very important. Although it is expensive, it is the best. If you miss the right education at that level, it’s like getting the foundation of a house wrong. Basic education is the best and the most important part of education.”

Salami suggested that efforts be made to ensure a good learning environment for pupils, as he recognised the contribution of the private sector to education in Nigeria.

Oh her part, the Director of Cedarville School, Eniola Bolorunduro, said there was need to overhaul the educational facilities.

She said, “We can imbibe a lot of things from the advanced countries because we have the resources. Right here in Nigeria, we have talents. We have children who can do a lot of things, but there are no facilities on ground for them. If the facilities are available our pupils will be able to compete anywhere in the world.

“Some students are lagging behind, maybe because of the learning environment or family background. In our school, we have an eclectic curriculum which brings in curricula from other countries and blends them with our own. It is so that our children will have the privilege of what obtains outside Nigeria in terms of education.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]