Experts advocate technological upgrade of teachers
Tare Youdeowei

Experts in the teacher-education sub-sector have called on teachers to improve their teaching methods by using technology to impart pupils with adequate skills to succeed in the 21st century.

They made this known on Tuesday at the 5th National Conference of Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union, held at the Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, Lagos.

At the conference, which was themed, 21st Century Teacher Education Programme: Technological, Pedagogical and Content Requirements, it was agreed that teachers had to first become technology compliant teachers before producing pupils that can excel in the jet age.

The experts said that the modern teacher should be adaptive, be a life-long learner, know how to collaborate and be amaster of technology in the classroom.

With these skills, according to the experts, the modern teacher would be able to facilitate and inspire pupils’ learning and creativity to excel in the global society; enable pupils’ to maximise the potential of their formal and informal learning experiences; facilitate learning in multiple modalities; work as effective members of learning teams; use the full range of digital-age tools to improve pupils’ engagement and achievement; work with their students to co-create new learning opportunities; use data to support pupil learning and programme improvements, as well as work with policy leaders as change agent.

The Deputy Provost, Federal College of Education (Special), Oyo, Oyo State, Dr Theo Ajobiewe, however, said, “It is one thing to know and be well grounded in your teaching subject, it is another to know how to deliver or impart knowledge effectively for the students to understand and always look forward to the next class.

“As such, educational institutions must design programmes that help prospective teachers to understand deeply a wide array of things about learning in social and cultural contexts, to enact these understandings in complex classrooms serving increasingly diverse pupils. In addition, if prospective teachers are to succeed at this task, teacher education must design programs that transform the kinds of settings in which novices learn to teach and later become teachers.”

Ajobiewe, recommended that technological facilities for teaching and learning should be integrated into the syllabus of teacher education and it should be adequately and practically taught.

He added, “Teacher education programmes need to prepare teachers as classroom researchers and expert collaborators who can learn from one another.Teacher education should take up the charge of educating policy makers and tell the public about what it actually takes to teach effectively in today’s world.

“The enterprise of teacher education should venture out of the universities or colleges of education and engage more closely with schools in a mutual transformation agenda.Teacher education should be designed to help teachers develop the disposition to continue to seek answers to difficult problems of teaching and learning.

“For productive teaching to take place, government, through the ministry of education and other educational bodies, should disallow untrained individuals from practising. Where there is delay or lack of government and non-governmental organisation sponsorship, teachers on their own should try and attend in-service training at least once a year to improve their skills and build self-confidence in teaching and improve their quality and effectiveness.”

On his part, Prof. Oluranti Adedayo, of the Department of Mathematics and Statistic, FCE TECH, Akoka, said the country should upgrade the educational system to a level where pupils and teachers become solution providers.

“Having the e-generation teacher calls for emphasis on digitalisation during teacher training, so they can pass the technological competence acquired by them to teach the pupils. It is advocated that proper education of teachers can be used to solve the problem of the world, as such, constant professional development of pre-service and serving teachers will equip them with skills to improve them to vary their teaching in line with what obtains in developed nations of the world.”

In his paper, Prof. Biodun Akinpelu, of the Faculty of Education, Lagos State University, Ojo, said that inclusive education and the integration of technology were necessary for teachers to catch up with their counterparts in developed countries.

“To address our national search for solutions to our pupils’ growth as a nation, our teacher preparation efforts to develop young minds for the future have to reflect the fact that 21st century teachers cannot afford to do things the same way. Our social, cultural and linguistic landscape as a nation has to be considered.Inclusive education and integration of technology have to form a major part of our professional efforts. The pace at which technology in the classroom is moving can only be described as rapid; the 21st century teacher just needs to move along with it,” he said.

Also the conference organiser, COEASU, Akoka chapter, through its chairman, Mr Ebenezar Oje, said time had come for stakeholders and the government to stop playing lip service to education and seek ways to make teachers innovative.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]