EKOBA advises school management on discipline, morality
The Eko Boys High School Old Boys Association has advised the management of the school to remain dedicated to building disciplined, brilliant and morally-upright pupils.

The association also told the pupils in the school to remain focused in their studies in order to be successful later in life.

The old pupils spoke through their acting National President, Rilwan Fashina and the National Public Relations Officer, Akinloye Busari, at the 106th anniversary and Thanksgiving ceremony of the school held at Methodist Church Nigeria, Cathedral of Blessing, Mushin, Lagos.

At the ceremony, Fashina noted that it was the training and discipline instilled in the old pupils of the school that made them to succeed in life.

He also advised the school’s management not to forsake the kind of training that make the pupils responsible in both character and learning, as he disclosed that there were plans to relocate the school from its present site at Mushin to Abijo on Lagos Island.

“We are thanking God for keeping us alive up to this time and for the opportunity to come together as a group to contribute to the development of our alma mater. We are in the process of relocating our school from to Mushin to Abijo on Lagos Island. The Lagos state Government is investing a lot and we, as members of EKOBA, are also investing in the school.

“I advise the management of the school to remain dedicated to the course of building total pupils, in both character and learning. I advise the pupils to listen to their teachers because it is what we were taught that formed the foundation of what we are today. “

While delivering his sermon, the minister in charge of the Methodist Church of Nigeria, Cathedral of Blessing, Mushin, Lagos, Rev. Israel Ogunsiji, urged the old pupils to radiate love wherever they go.

The cleric noted that their achievements should be seen in their good deeds to their fellow old pupils and mankind in general.

He said, “A day is coming when God will ask you how many people you have assisted to get promotion in your office. Mind you, the sit and position you are occupying today, thousands of people had sat on that seat and today they are no more. If you know how to do good, continue. If you know how to do bad, continue. There is a reward for everything.”

He also prayed that the year 2019 “will be a year of peace, success, blessings, abundance and elevation for EKOBA.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]