I read a lot to learn something new–Akande, first-class graduate
Gracious Akande, 20, graduated with a first-class degree in Mass Communication at Pentecost University College, an affiliate of University of Ghana. She graduated with 3.82/4.00 CGPA. In this interview with TUNDE AJAJA, she talks about her educational journey and life in a foreign institution

We learnt you had your tertiary education in Ghana, what informed the move?

Initially, it wasn’t part of my options to study in Ghana, but when I didn’t meet the cut-off mark for my first choice in the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination, it became an option. I could have gone for my second choice, but my dad got the idea about going to school in Ghana from a family friend. We both researched about schools in Ghana, the tuition and the cost of living. Although it was a bit expensive, considering the financial situation at home, it was still relatively less expensive compared to private universities in Nigeria at that time. We settled for a school since I was going to get my certificate from the University of Ghana and that sealed the deal.

How easy was it to get admission into the university there?

It was very easy. All I needed was my Senior School Certificate to show that I passed my subjects, and that was it. I got the admission form, filled it and sent it. Few weeks after, I was offered admission. I didn’t have to take any other examination. So, it was easy and simple.

Considering that you didn’t plan to leave Nigeria for your education, how easy was it for you to acclimatise yourself?

Primarily, I would say it was interesting to be in another clime, where you meet people from different parts of the world. The diversity of beliefs and character was amazing. The weather isn’t really different from that of Nigeria so I didn’t have a problem in that regard except for the fact that the sun seemed to be hotter in Ghana than in Nigeria. It almost felt the same, but it seemed I got darker. About the food, I like to try new things naturally, so easily I sampled their delicacies, which I enjoyed, by the way. I only had a problem with their plain rice. It had this weird smell which I hated because they don’t eat the long grain parboiled rice we are used to here. Usually, when travelling back to school, I would take food items along and my mum sometimes sent food items to me as well.

How did you handle missing your parents, siblings and friends?

It was a bit difficult initially. Would you believe that there were times when I cried while on the phone with my parents or siblings? I really missed them but it got better over time, not because I stopped missing them but because I was able to manage it better with time. I remember my first Christmas away from home; that was when I finally understood how homesickness felt. But I thank God for wisdom to manage it.

How often were you coming home?

The first two years, I came home every semester. Immediately after my second year, I just stopped coming home. I guess I finally adjusted to the environment. I really wanted to do internship at a media house in Ghana, so I stayed back until after I finished my final project.

Did you explore the option of staying there to work after your programme or that didn’t cross your mind?

The thought crossed my mind. The thought of serving there crossed my mind as well but because it was only for Ghanaian citizens, I couldn’t serve there. By the time I had completed my project, I could not continue to say no to my parents who had been mounting pressure on me to come back home.

Was it your deliberate plan when you got to school to graduate with first-class degree or it was a product of providence?

I have learnt that nothing happens by chance. Earlier, I mentioned that my tuition was quite expensive, so my plan was to get high grades, not only to impress my parents, but to also qualify me for a scholarship, in order to take the burden off my parents. That was my motivation in the first year. After my first year, I singlehandedly put together my scholarship application, requested for certain documents to be scanned and sent to me from Nigeria. On getting to the scholarship office, the moment my form was opened which showed I was Nigerian, I was immediately told I could not qualify for the scholarship because it was only available to Ghanaians. I was devastated. I managed to hold back the tears till I got to my room where I had the privacy to cry. That was my greatest disappointment at the time. But, like I said, to be successful in any venture, you need to be deliberate about it because nothing good comes easy. Graduating with a first-class degree in itself may be easy if one is wired naturally with discipline, focus, diligence and wisdom from birth. However, no one comes endowed with these attributes, so we all have to go through the rigours of imbibing them, which is the difficult part. But once we have mastered that, the rest is easy.

How many of you were in your class and how many graduated with a first-class degree?

Not many; just about 80 students or thereabouts, out of which 10 of us graduated with a first-class degree and two are Nigerians. We actually had 12 Nigerians in my class and it was a good experience.

Given that not everyone in your class graduated with a first-class degree, what were the things you did differently from others to achieve that?

I think the most important factor would be the fact that as an undergraduate, I began to have a closer relationship with God. I prayed as if that was the only thing I needed to do to graduate with a first-class degree. Similarly, I read as if that was the only thing I needed to be the best. Striking the balance was what I had going for me and the combination of the two really worked. I will recommend those two to anyone.

Some students would wonder what it really takes to graduate with a first-class degree. How many hours were you reading and how many hours did you sleep daily?

I will try not to bore you with too much information. I would say it was not about reading daily or sleeping less. I just believed that whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well. First, I studied myself and decided on the type of student I wanted to be. I almost never missed lectures; I studied my lecturers, understood what they expected of their students, and tried to do my best. I paid huge attention to assignments and group projects. I took part in presentations and I started studying for examinations at least a month before each examination, which meant that before the revision week, I was through with all my courses and I would have questions prepared for my lecturers. The truth is that sometimes, it could become tiring and boring being the good student but I knew what I wanted and that kept me going.

How often did you use the library?

I used it a lot. There was hardly a week I didn’t visit the library. I enjoyed reading naturally, even if I wasn’t going to do assignments or read a book related to my course, I would sometimes pick up a book on health, law or other areas just to learn something new. Other times, I would just go with my notepad to plan or write down ideas that came to my head.

What informed your decision to study mass communication or were you constrained to accept it?

I did sciences in senior secondary school and I would say I struggled because I have always been inclined towards art. When I saw the opportunity to switch to a course I was passionate about, I grabbed it, and that was mass communication. And even as an undergraduate, I enjoyed the practical aspect of the course. I covered school events and wrote news articles for my school’s website. Throughout my four years in school, every holiday I went to a media house to participate in internship in order to gain practical experience about the practice of journalism and understand the media landscape better and I did part of it in Ghana.

What were your most memorable moments as an undergraduate?

Riding a quad bike on the beach was my most exciting moment. Also, representing my school in a competition called the ‘Newsroom’ was another exciting moment for me. I started believing in myself more as a writer when my lecturers and colleagues encouraged and supported me in the competition. It also boosted my confidence in my ability as a writer and speaker. Although we didn’t win the competition, that experience made me somehow popular in the department. Also, being on the Dean’s Honours List was another memorable moment. How I moved from being a struggling science student to being on the honours’ roll is still unbelievable. However, an embarrassing moment for me was caused by a lady who owed me money and did things that I found unpalatable. Thank God for the wisdom to handle it and of course the moment passed.

What is your aspiration?

I have always wanted to be an investigative reporter, but to be honest, days, months go by and it is gradually becoming a fading dream because the political landscape in Nigeria keeps getting worse and it seems nothing will ever be done to change things. I am inspired by Ghanaian investigative journalist, Anas Aremeyaw Anas, who has gone to great lengths to make people in power accountable. In addition, I want to establish my own editing and publishing firm within the next five years.

Some people don’t contemplate going into a relationship because they see it as a distraction. What about you? Did you also see it as a distraction?

I think it is based on individuals. Some can manage the two while some cannot, but for me, I just did not fancy being in a relationship then. I didn’t think I could handle both successfully so I jettisoned the idea.

Were you social or it was always about your studies?

I think I was a bookworm. Although, I created time once in a while to go out with friends but I would mostly relax with movies and junk food. I sometimes attended school events that were entertaining.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]