Varsities should do more to hold leaders accountable — Don
A lecturer at the University of Lagos, Prof. Timothy Nubi, has called on universities to take their place in nation-building by organising programmes that will hold leaders accountable.

Nubi, who is the founding Director of the Centre for Housing and Sustainable Development at UNILAG, made the statement in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria in Lagos on Monday.

According to Nubi, more debates on critical issues bordering on national development should take place in universities.

“Intellectuals are saddled with the responsibility of researching into daily challenges and coming up with lasting solutions, including checking manifestos of aspirants into public offices. This is apart from teaching and community development.”

He expressed satisfaction at Saturday’s town hall meeting with some presidential candidates on the state of nation’s Housing Market.

NAN reported that Dr Oby Ezekwesili of the Alliance Congress Party of Nigeria, Prof. Kingsley Moghalu of the Young Progressives Party and Mr Omoyele Sowore of the African Action Congress were among the presidential candidates who attended the meeting.

Mr Fela Durotoye of the Alliance for New Nigeria and Mr Isaac Ositelu of the Accord Party were also present at the event which took place at the university’s main auditorium.

Nubi also said, “We are happy with what happened here as approved and supported by the Vice-Chancellor of this university, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe. It is a milestone achievement for the university to take this step in organising this meeting for the public. It will go a long way to create the needed awareness. Through this meeting, we were able to tell the whole world that housing remains key to national development and whoever wants to govern the people must make housing a priority,’’ he said.

The founding director further called for the much needed political will to achieve housing development for the masses, as he urged increased investment in the housing sector for facilitated development.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]