Fundraising can help universities engage with society
For many years, the interaction between universities and the private sector appears to focus mainly on research and innovation partnerships. But today, interest in fundraising is on the rise in a competitive context in which may organisations already raise money for their activities in a highly professionalised way. This is an important development for many different reasons.

Universities seeking to establish successful fundraising activities can work with several tools. Foundations, ‘friends’ associations, sponsorships and crowd-funding are the main instruments which support the missions of universities in alternative ways. These tools can work together, like an orchestra, or individually.

Before implementing a fundraising strategy, it is crucial that universities analyse their immediate environment, both inside and outside the institution. Fundraising requires leadership and attention and a team that works for the needs of the university, rather than one that is solely concerned with its reputation.

It is also important to take into consideration different funding cultures, tax incentives, the history of an institution and the characteristics of its alumni base, as well as current economic conditions and societal aspects.

Each university should tailor its own strategy based on these different parameters; a concept that works successfully in London might not work in other cities or countries. Fundraising concepts help universities to identify the needs, possibilities and the right tools for cooperation. Normally, fundraising strategies are highly individual.

Furthermore, fundraising at universities must respect and even strengthen a series of core principles. The freedom of research and teaching must be guaranteed, the investment of donors or sponsors must conform with the university’s strategy and cooperation and investments must strengthen the reputation of the university. All activities must be transparent and fundraising nowadays must be sustainable.

Fundraising can boost democracy

In the so-called ‘post-truth era’, it has become essential for universities to find partners they can collaborate with to strengthen their work and to intensify dialogue and communication with civil society. Universities have a special responsibility in this matter, as guardians of independent research, but they often require external help to better reach out beyond their traditional constituencies.

Partnership-building and fundraising activities can build better democratic skills. Indeed, in healthy democracies, independent media, free artistic expression and autonomous education and research at universities boost the immune system of a society.

Universities are lighthouses of knowledge and need to build bridges, with partners and society, to increase interest in science and in the challenges of the future. It is also important to reflect on the way science works and how universities operate as places of free and critical thinking without any commercial interest.

Universities have big assets, but the challenge is to find sympathisers and partners who strengthen the culture and activities and transmit these values to the public. Fundraising means generating partnerships and in a sense ‘friend-raising’.

Sponsorship is about more than money

Sponsorship is based on considerations and activities that are spelt out in an agreement or contract between partners – sponsorship is also a form of partnership. It is built from the unique selling proposition that the institution makes to potential sponsors. It needs to define planned activities to reach identified goals and be supported by a financial plan and a ‘sponsor pyramid’.

The unique selling proposition must be translated into different sponsors, playing to their different interests (scientific, artistic, political, economic, touristic and so on).

Sponsorship is an interesting and versatile tool when combined with public relations, marketing and hospitality activities. Not only does it provide a public platform for university activities, but it also helps transmit content; it promotes workers’ open-mindedness, helps generate new relationships and ultimately creates win-win-win situations.

To put it in a nutshell, sponsorship is much more than looking for money.

Let me illustrate this point with an example of a concert cycle called ‘Musical Adventure Central Europe’ that I established some years ago for the International Summer Academy Prague-Vienna-Budapest. The project involved the leading music universities of Central and Eastern Europe, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce and the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

In a context marked by the 2004 enlargement of the European Union, this initiative focused on the richness of music and musical talents in the region and their ability to foster new interaction between Central European countries in a growing EU, based on a common cultural heritage.

The project gained media interest and allowed the partner universities to reach out to a broader public. Deeply impressed by the young artists featured, prospective sponsors who had been invited decided to endow scholarships for highly talented students from Central and Eastern Europe to participate in the master classes of the International Summer Academy – a true ‘win-win-win’ situation.

We, as university leaders, practitioners and partners, are not lacking in important reasons to search for friends and start working for a better Europe; but ultimately, it is in everyone’s interest to assemble different actors in society to support the values upheld by universities.

Christian Vranek is a consultant in sponsorship for science, the arts and business. He discussed the topic of fundraising at the 4th EUA (European University Association) Funding Forum held in late 2018 at Ramon Llull University in Barcelona, Spain. This is an edited version of his article which was published by the EUA.

Source: universityworldnews.com