Mixed reactions trail Buhari’s support of teachers retirement age
Tare Youdeowei

This year, Nigerians expect a better lease of life that will bring progress to them in their endeavours. Teachers in the Nigerian Civil Service are not left out as they are hopeful that President Muhammadu Buhari will sign the bill, which will increase their retirement age from 60 to 65 years.

Stakeholders have, however, disagreed on this move. Some see it as a way of retaining the experienced hands, while others say that more old people will take up the space, which young and vibrant youths would have occupied to learn from the wisdom of the old before they are due for retirement.

There are some, however, who feel that a part-time system should be adopted as opposed to full employment till they clock 65, since teaching in primary or secondary schools is more demanding than lecturing in a university.

In an interview with our correspondent, Mr Michael Shina, who will be due for retirement in 2020, if the bill is passed into law, said he would love to stay longer in service as he did not feel tired at all.

“If the ratification is done while I am still in service, yes, I will enjoy it. No, I won’t be tired at all. When you take pride and get joy from what you do, as I do, you can never be tired. You can never be tired of giving what you have, of developing the minds of the young ones.

“I think President Buhari is in support because the government realises that allowing these people to retire at the age of 60 will be robbing the people coming after them of the opportunity to learn from their experience. All that experience will just be wasted, that is why the development is welcomed. I personally welcome it because it is another opportunity to serve my fatherland.”

On giving room for youths to get into the profession, Shina said, “Education is a continuous process. No one has a monopoly of knowledge. If not for the state of the country, the Federal Civil Service would be employing almost annually. In spite of that, there are still recruitments going on. Those who are ready for teaching jobs are getting it and directly or indirectly, they are understudying the experienced teachers.”

However, a retired teacher, Mrs Patience Erahon, expressed the opinion that any hard working teacher that loved the profession would be exhausted at age 60. As such, she suggested the retirement age should remain at 60 years, while healthy and interested teachers could stay on as contract staff with less working hours.

“At 60, a teacher is already becoming redundant, especially when you are looking at a secondary school classroom, it is different for universities. What they should have done was to leave the retirement at 60 and if people want to go in for contract work, maybe for a few hours a week. That would be better. And that is if they are able to, because some, even at 60, they are already way older than that because they have been adjusting their age. At such age, what would they really be able to put into merit what is being paid to them?

“I say this because, if one is truly working, whether in administration or classroom, and I am speaking from my experience as a classroom teacher, it takes a toll on you. At 60 plus there is little that one can put in without almost endangering one’s health.”

Speaking on how the increased retirement age negates the drive to have more young people in the teaching profession, Erahon said, “Adding that extra five years when there are young people trying to climb up the ladder is not wise. They have been clamouring for this for a while; having the same retirement age as university lecturers, but that shouldn’t be. Lecturing in the university is markedly different from teaching in the secondary schools.

“Lecturers can afford to just go into class, say a few things, ask the students to develop their notes and give test. But in secondary school, you do more than that. If the pupils go for external exams and fail, it reflects on you.”

On the health implications of working till 65 years, a Neurologist at the University of Ibadan, Prof. Adesola Ogunniyi, said the medical history of teachers should be considered and only medically fit persons should be allowed to continue.

“My view is that experience is important; if the person is still medically fit, if the person is still productive and relevant, there is no problem with teaching till 65. There are possible medical conditions with getting old; high blood pressure for example but if the person is still healthy and adheres to medical advice, there would be no problem.

“However, those who have medical conditions before the age of 60, medical files of such individuals can be checked for excuse from duty for medical reasons; they can be assessed by a doctor to see if they are healthy enough to continue. But those that have remained healthy can just go through routine health checks to make sure their blood pressure, sugar level and eyesight are fine.”

Ogunniyi further cautioned that due to the prevalence of dementia in old people, it should be looked out for in teachers. “Talking about dementia, only three to 10 per cent, that is between one in 10 and one in 30 old people have dementia. Also, when people are older than 65 there is a higher risk of dementia. This means that increasing the retirement age by five years will not increase the prevalence that much. However, such individuals would have shown features like being forgetful, missing their way, missing lectures, teaching the wrong things and other behavioural changes that would show that something is wrong.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]