2019 Cowbellpedia targets girl child education – Einarsson
Tare Youdeowei

The Managing Director of Promasidor Nigeria Limited, Mr Anders Einarsson, has said that this year’s Cowbellpedia Secondary Schools’ Mathematics TV Quiz Show will be focused on the girl child.

He made this known during a briefing held in Ikeja on Tuesday, where the commencement of registration for schools to enter the fifth season of the competition was announced.

Einarsson also said the competition was open to pupils in JSS3 and SSS2 from ages 10 to 18 attending full time secondary education in both public and private schools in the country.

“As part of the brand’s deliberate effort at encouraging the girl child’s interest in Science,Technology, Engineering and Mathematics courses, mixed secondary schools are expected to nominate a minimum of two female students for each category. As research has shown that a positive relationship exists between girl child education and the Gross Domestic Product of a nation.

“For 21 years, Cowbell has been involved in the improvement of the standard of Mathematics education in country, while Cowbellpedia has provided a platform to identify, showcase and reward excellence in the subject. It has also continued to trigger the interest of pupils and further reinforce the importance of mathematics in the growth of modern economies,” Einarsson said.

The Promasidor boss disclosed that the first prize includes a cash prize of N2m and an all-expense paid educational excursion outside the country, with the first and second runners-up getting N1.5m and N1m respectively.

The teacher of the top prize winner will be awarded N500,000, while those of the first and second runners-up will get N400,000 and N300,000 respectively.

On his part, the Marketing Manager of Promasidor Nigeria, Mr AbiodunAyodeji, explained that is strictly online and the portal for registration, which opened on Monday, October 1, 2018, would be closed on Sunday, February 3, while the qualifying examination would take place nationwide on Saturday, February 9, at the over 200 designated centres.

Each school, according to Ayodeji, will be required to present its best 10 pupils; five from JSS3 and five from SSS2, irrespective of sex, religion, tribe or state of origin, to enhance their chances of qualifying for the qualifying written exam and move on to the TV Quiz Show.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]