Akwa Ibom constructs 60 modular classrooms
Patrick Odey, Uyo

The AkwaIbom State Commissioner for Education, Prof. Victor Inoka, said on Thursday that the state government had started the construction of 60 modular classroom blocks across the 10 federal constituencies in the state.

He said 10 of the modular classroom blocks had already been built in Uyo High School, Etoi primary school, Uyo, as well as in schools in Onna Local Government Area.

Inoka, who spoke yesterday, explained that the government ventured into the project to ensure that pupils in public schools had access to what their counterparts in developed countries enjoyed.

“Sixty schools are proposed for the project. This is the first phase of the project. The materials are complete and ready for use. We have done four in Uyo High school, Oron road and one at Etoi Primary and Secondary school. Two at Onna LGA are also completed.

“The classrooms regulate temperature according to the weather condition. They can be cool when the temperature is hot without air conditioning. With the gadgets you access anywhere, they are also fire resistant.”

Inoka also disclosed that government is sponsoring the education of 31 pupils in private schools drawn from the 31 local government areas of the state.

He said poor but intelligent pupils were picked for sponsorship in private schools, adding that the government had faithfully lived up to its expectations, regarding the payment of fees for the children.

“The government is determined to ensure that AkwaIbom children enjoy quality education, even as it is tackling the problem of infrastructural deficits in public schools. Soon, the problem of poor infrastructure will be totally eradicated.

“In all the 31 local government areas we sent children to the best schools through scholarship, and government is paying for them. The boarding and school fees are paid for them by the government. I can show you the vouchers and tellers we paid straight to the school account.

“We said, if the millionaires are sending their children to Tower of Ivory or Top Faith School, we should have these children experience what it is. It is not as if public school is meant for poor people. We selected 31 children from all the 31 local government areas in the state.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]