Teachers must be well paid, equipped to drive development —Hakeem Subair
Hakeem Subair is the founder of the One Million Teachers Project which trains and empowers teachers. He speaks with TOFARATI IGE on the inspiration behind the project and its activities

What is the ‘One Million Teachers Project’ about?

Without qualified and motivated teachers, children stand very little chance of realising their potential. Unfortunately, there is a huge shortage of such teachers across the world. The situation is particularly dire in Sub Saharan Africa where 1MT is currently focused on. Nigeria, unfortunately, accounts for over 25 per cent of this shortage. Nigeria has one of the poorest learning outcomes in the world, with one of the highest numbers of out-of-school children in the world – estimated at over 13 million – a disproportionately higher percentage, compared to other countries.

Ultimately, our aim is to have a critical mass of highly-competent and enterprising change makers as we begin to build the foundation for an educated citizenry. Our programme goes beyond training to providing the teachers with pathways to lucrative careers and job satisfaction by offering a pathway to excellence where they progress through various levels.

What led to this initiative?

In 2008, my wife and I were looking for an appropriate place to leave our daughter, Nadrah, while we were at work. I worked with a bank at the time, and my wife was a busy doctor who was often on duty. We were not satisfied with what we found available in terms of schools and day care facilities where we lived. So, we decided to open our own school. What started with a handful of friends’ children quickly blossomed into a 192-student enterprise. The school was thriving except for one issue — the teachers. We used to have two backup teachers at any time because somehow, a teacher could just decide not to show up. We always had trouble getting good teachers. I could only imagine the state of other schools.

I relocated to Canada in March 2012 under the Federal Skilled Worker programme, but education back in Nigeria remained in my thoughts, even though I could no longer supervise the school we had back home. I made up my mind that if this was going to be involved in education, which I was passionate about, I was going to do it in a different way. I believe that we can achieve greater impact by channelling our efforts at helping teachers do a better job of teaching – as the most significant resource for transforming education is to transform the teacher, and that investment in the teacher brings the most return on education.

What are some of the challenges you have faced in the course of carrying out this project?

The biggest is funding. Getting such a massive initiative off the ground is a Herculean task. Despite the tremendous support we have received from various quarters, having adequate funds to power our activities has always been a struggle but somehow, we have kept it going. Being away from my family so many times is also tough to deal with but there are lots of joys in making new connections as well as having amazing teammates who make the load lighter. The teachers and students also make it all worthwhile.

What do you aim to achieve with all these activities?

1MT aims to close the gap in teacher shortage – estimated at 69 million globally (17 million in Sub Saharan Africa where the shortage is most severe – and where 1MT is currently focused on) by 2030. Our goal is to attract new young teachers to the profession while simultaneously training and motivating existing teachers to increase their professional capacity and enhance the learning outcomes of their students.

What do you think are the major problems of the educational sector in Nigeria?

We lack all the four key school-level ingredients for learning – prepared learners, effective teaching, learning-focused inputs, and the skilled management and governance – that pulls them all together. The effect is that not only do we lack trained workers, we lack readily trainable workers, leading to low job quality, earnings and labour mobility. To get out of the crisis, we not only need to increase enrolment and access, but we need to go beyond schooling to prioritise learning – because schooling is not the same as learning. Our educational system should equip students with the skills they need to lead healthy, productive and meaningful lives.

Why did you decide to relocate to Canada?

I didn’t feel like Nigeria was conducive for me to fully exploit my talent. I also wanted a place where my kids would have a chance of standing shoulder to shoulder with the best in the world. Canada was an obvious choice.

In what ways can Nigeria curb brain drain?

I think we need to fix our home. When we do so, people will visit and those at home will want to stay. If a place is not conducive for people to thrive, they will leave; it’s as simple as that. We can make whatever noise we want but this situation will not change if people don’t believe they have a future here. This is as much a leadership problem as it is a followership problem. We must demand change from the way things are by electing leaders who will lead the desired change. Yes, many have become so desperate that all they can focus on is the next meal, and I don’t blame them. Most of us only think about ourselves and our immediate families, but we need to be reminded that we can only truly thrive when the system is healthy.

Is there any basis for comparison between the teaching profession in Nigeria and Canada?

The teaching profession in Canada attracts some of the smartest graduates you can find anywhere. That is not the case in Nigeria, where, in the majority of cases, people go into the profession because they can’t find jobs elsewhere. In the universities, many, who are unable to find admission in other areas of study, go into education because it is easier to get into, due to low demand and because it is less competitive. In Nigeria, we don’t have the best people taking care of our future, unlike Canada, where some of the best and brightest minds are in the teaching profession. Of course, Canadian teachers are better remunerated. To attract the best and brightest, we need to pay them well.

What are some of the things Nigeria can learn from the Canadian educational system?

Show me the state of your educational system, and I will show you the state of your society. Canada does a good job with education (and they hardly brag about it). While education is a provincial matter, the country ensures that everyone has access to quality education, regardless of income or status. Public education is topnotch with some of its best and brightest going into teaching.

I think Nigeria has a lot to learn. We need to provide high quality public education to all, regardless of income, location, family circumstances or any other factor.

A lot of people have criticised the curriculum in Nigeria as being obsolete. What’s your take on that?

While the curriculum might be described as inadequate, I think it is just one among several factors that is responsible for the poor situation we are in. Without competent people, curriculum, like many of the other inputs, will not amount to much. I argue that instead, we should focus on developing the human capacity needed to drive the system.

In what major ways do you think Nigerian teachers need support?

They should get better remuneration; ongoing and sustained training that stress life-long learning; coaching; mentorship; financial and non-financial incentives; a work environment that is suitable for teaching and learning; and a society that appreciates the central role they play in society.

What are your educational qualifications?

I have two degrees in finance and general commerce from the University of Ilorin and University of Windsor, Canada, respectively. I also have a Master in Innovation and Entrepreneurship from Queen’s University, Canada. In addition, I have a certificate in social impact, also from Queen’s University. I have attended hundreds of professional development courses over the years.

What is your work history?

I have over 17 years’ work experience; more than 12 of which were in the financial services industry –including Guaranty Trust Bank, Oceanic, and Intercontinental Bank. I also ran a microfinance bank.

Who are your role models?

Some of my favourite people are Stephen Covey, Nelson Mandela, Mother Theresa, and Steve Jobs.

What were your childhood ambitions?

At different times, I wanted to become a pilot, engineer and professor. Now, I just want to be happy – to be able to live life on my own terms, and to do work that feeds my soul.

How do you like to dress?

I always like to be comfortable and I try to dress for the occasion (I’m attending).

How do you unwind?

I relax with nuts by my side, curled up in bed or the corner of a couch with a good biographical book, and occasionally binge-watching movies.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]