Ten expectations for education sector in 2019
Tare Youdeowei

A former Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission, Prof. Peter Okebukola, has revealed 10 features of the education sector that will be expected describe 2019.

He made this known in a statement made available to our correspondent on Monday.Describing 2018 as a year of mixed blessings for the education sector, he said some positive elements in the education report card were the release of basic education funding to states, greater attention to teachers’ capacity development by the Universal Basic Education Commission, increase in the carrying capacity of the university system through licensing of more private universities and recognition of more state universities by the NUC.

Okebukola also described the past year as one where increasing attention was paid to burning issues facing the sector by the National Council on Education and the National Economic Council.

Commending the Federal Government and the NUC, he said, “The NUC was able to significantly improve its quality assurance operations and expand its open and distance learning services. The Rasheed Revitalisation Plan for the Nigerian University System (2018-2023) was activated in 2018. NUC also broke the backbone of data drought by publishing the latest statistics of the university system, as well as the 2017 State of University Education and the Directory of Full Professors in the system.

He said, “Towards the close of the year, the government at all levels, declared a state of emergency on education. It also reduced the cost of purchasing the Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board and National Examinations Council examination forms to the joy of candidates and their parents. In 2018, the model of public service accountability and transparency was also a feature of the Oloyede-led JAMB. The body emerged the gold standard in the use of public funds and the conduct of public examinations.”

He, however, condemned the large population of out-of-school children and the poor performance of pupils in the senior school certificate examinations.

Stating that the Academic Staff Union of Universities’ strike would not go beyond the early months of the year, Okebukola postulated that the sector would enjoy increased funding.

He said, “In 2019, 10 features of the education sector are anticipated. It is expected that the ASUU strike will not last beyond the early months of 2019 because of the deft moves of the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, and the Executive Secretary of the NUC, Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, to end the spate of strikes.

“Unknown to many, these leaders are working tirelessly behind the scene to get the universities reopened again. When reopened, the universities will have a long spell of uninterrupted academic calendar. Historical trends confirm that when a national strike is called off, the system will have a long recess from strikes. The year 2019 will fall within the recess period so we should expect a rather peaceful year with regard to stability of the academic calendar.

“The second feature is improved funding for the sector. The Universal Basic Education Commission is poised to continue its release of funds for basic education to states. Tertiary Education Trust fund will gallop swiftly in its admirable match on intervening in physical development of our universities and polytechnics. The dividend of the ASUU strike will be a huge injection of more funds into our universities. The declaration of a state of emergency will also cause states and the Federal Government to pay more attention to funding the sector. Consequently, 2019 will turn out to be one of the best years in funding education in Nigeria in recent times.

“The third feature, which will be a collateral benefit of the second, is so because of improved funding; our schools and universities will have improvements in physical resourcing. The welfare of staff in the universities will also be enhanced. These will translate into improved productivity in the system and more likely than not, improvement in the quality of education delivery at all levels.”

Foreseeing that there would be a reduction in academic corruption but no reduction in the number of out-of-school children, Okebukola added, “The fourth anticipated feature of 2019 is the attainment of not less than 60 per cent of the objectives of the Ministerial Strategic Plan 2016 -2019. January 2019 will also witness the formal unveiling of the Rasheed Revitalisation Blueprint for Nigerian universities and the active pursuit of its targets on access, quality, governance, research and innovation, curriculum renewal, ICT deployment and reduction in academic corruption.

“Fifthly, as shown by trends in election years, the 2019 general elections will impact positively on the education sector as the winners will strive to impress by trying to fulfil their election promises to the citizenry in the first year of assuming the reins of power or renewing their mandate. Thereafter, we cannot be too sure as our politicians are too quick to forget promises they make to the electorate.

“Sixthly, 2019 will not see a significant drop in the number of out-of-school children in view of the recent rise in insurgent activities in the northeast. Happily, the president is taking steps to address the challenge and our armed forces are gallantly winning the battle.”

He also said the re-establishment of State Education Development Fund and the reduction in incidences of sexual harassment in schools, would be a feature of this year.

“The seventh forecast is that more private universities will be licensed in 2019, at least four, to further enhance the carrying capacity of the system. The NUC will sharpen its quality assurance teeth in 2019 and implement codes of good practice in governance and quality delivery of conventional, open and distance learning systems.

“The eighth expectation is on security and safety in schools. The National Policy on Safety and Security in Schools in Nigeria will mitigate the insecurity in the education sector. It is important to augment the services of uniformed security officers in our schools with other security measures such as establishment of vigilante groups and community neighbourhood watch.

“Ninth is the re-establishment of State Education Development Fund and other funds to create additional but sustainable funding sources to improve education service delivery in post-basic schools for the achievement of the 2030 Agenda.

“The tenth expectation is reduction in incidence of sexual harassment in our schools, especially in our universities, brought about by the national searchlight on the phenomenon and the well-publicised sanctions on persons caught in the act,” Okebukola submitted.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]