World fails to protect children in conflict – UNICEF
The United Nations Children’s Fund has said that the future of millions of children living in countries affected by armed conflict are at risk as warring parties continue to commit grave violations against them.

The UNICEF Director of Emergency Programmes, Mr Manuel Fontaine, who disclosed this in a statement on Thursday in Abuja, lamented that world leaders had failed to hold perpetrators accountable in spite of these violations, among other crimes.

According to the News Agency of Nigeria, Fontaine said that children living in conflict zones around the world have continued to suffer through extreme levels of violence over the past 12 months and the world has continued to fail them.

“For too long, parties to conflicts have been committing atrocities with near-total impunity and it is only getting worse. Much more can and must be done to protect and assist children. Children living in countries at war have been under direct attack, been used as human shields, killed, maimed or recruited to fight.”

Fontaine specifically noted that rape, forced marriage and abduction have become standard tactics in conflicts from Syria to Yemen and from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, to Nigeria, South Sudan and Myanmar, over the course of 2018.

According to him, in Afghanistan, violence and bloodshed remained a daily occurrence with about 5,000 children killed or maimed within the first three quarters of 2018, equal to all of 2017 and children making up 89 per cent of civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.

He further noted, “In North-East Nigeria, armed groups, including Boko Haram factions, continue to target girls who are raped, forced to become wives of fighters or used as ‘human bombs’. In February, the group abducted 110 girls and one boy from a technical college in Dapchi, Yobe State, while most of the children have since been released, five girls died and one is still being held captive as a slave.

“Cameroon has seen an escalation of the conflict in the North-West and South-West regions with schools, pupils and teachers often coming under attack. In November, more than 80 people, including many children, were abducted from a school in Nkwen, in the North-West of the country and released a few days later. A total of 93 villages have allegedly been partially or totally burned due to the conflict in the areas, with many children experiencing extreme levels of violence. In the Central African Republic, a dramatic resurgence in fighting has enveloped much of the country, with two out of three children in need of humanitarian assistance,” he noted.

The UNICEF director, therefore, called on all warring parties to abide by their obligations under international law to immediately end violations against children and the targeting of civilian infrastructure, including schools, hospitals and water infrastructure.

The organisation, according to him, also urged states with influence over parties to conflict to use that influence to protect children.

“Much more needs to be done to prevent wars and to end the many disastrous armed conflicts devastating children’s lives. Yet even as wars continue, we must never accept attacks against children.

“We must hold warring parties to their obligation to protect children. Otherwise, it is children, their families and their communities who will continue to suffer the devastating consequences, for now, and for years to come,” Fontaine said.