Demoted Otuoke varsity dons accuse VC of chasing shadows
Samuel Nkemakolem, Yenagoa

The seven demoted professors of the Federal University, Otuoke, Bayelsa State, have accused the Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Seth Jaja, of chasing shadows.

They made this known at a press briefing in Yenagoa, through Prof. Steve Nwabuzor, Dr Fellina Nwadike and Dr Evans Ugboji-Eze, where they also accused the VC of running the university “like his private estate.”

The professors, recruited from various universities across the globe said allowing the VC to continue in his ways would be counterproductive to the government’s policy of encouraging Nigerians in the Diaspora to return home.

They said, “Having replaced all the Aluko appointees in positions of leadership, Prof.Jaja decided to terminate their appointments by recklessly and illegally demoting them and converting their tenure appointments to contract appointments. It should be noted that all the seven professors purportedly demoted were from the Diaspora and were employed by the pioneer VC.

The result of Prof Jaja’s indiscriminate recruitment exercise is that today, the VC, all principal officers and almost all the senior academic and administrative staff of the university came from state institutions.

“The effect is that the VC frequently applies rules and regulations in the management of the university that should not apply to a federal university. Management meetings do not hold and decisions that affect the livelihood and careers of staff are taken by a few individuals at secret locations.”

They also accused the VC of ignoring the physical and infrastructural development of the university while quadrupling student intake to drive fees collection.

“Meanwhile, the university has federal allocations of about N7m sitting in Abuja. Instead of making efforts to get these funds released, the VC, who for three years has remained at his residence in his home institution in Port Harcourt, making twice weekly trips to Otuoke, is busy pursuing perceived opponents.”

The university, had on Wednesday, through its Registrar, Mr IruoYousuo’ said the seven demoted professors and six sacked non-teaching staff lacked the requisite scholarship while some absconded from the institution.

He also said the Governing Council of the school took the decision at its 10th meeting where appointments, disciplinary issues and other resolutions to sanitise the system were resolved.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]