ASUSS canvasses support for extension of teachers’ retirement age
John Charles, Makurdi

The National President of Academic Staff Union of Secondary Schools, Mr Amaji Samuel, on Thursday, called on Nigerians to support the move by the National Assembly toextend the retirement age for primary and secondary school teachers in the country from 60 to 65 years.

Amaji made the call during a press conference in Makurdi, where he commended the member of the House of Representative and Deputy Chairman, House Committee on Land Transport, Mr SegunAdekoya, for sponsoring the bill.

He said, “We are happy to let the world know about the elongation of the retirement age for both primary and secondary school teachers in Nigeria. The bill has gone through the first and second reading. Recently we went for the public hearing and it was like everyone’s bill because all those who spoke felt that we have been cheated for too long.

“So, we the ASUSS Nigeria want to throw our weight behind this, we support the elongation of service age for primary and secondary school teachers from 60 to 65 and we want other Nigerians to consider the bill apt and support the it.From available records retirement age of teachers in most countries of the world, including Africa is between 65 and 70 years, so Nigeria should not be different.”

Amaji further noted the elongation of retirement age, when signed into law, would have a monumental impact on the development of teaching and learning in basic education, as well as greatly change the perception people have about teachers in the country.

“Some teachers joined the service at the age of 20 but at 55 they are out of service when their experience matters the most. So, we dwell principally within the classrooms that is why we are calling for support after making our position known, openly, that it is good for us as teachers to stay longer in service to regulate the massive influx of people from teaching, especially at the secondary level to the tertiary institutions because civil service rules coverpublic school teachers too.”

The national president also advocated for the establishment of secondary education commission to help address the infrastructural development of secondary education, as he observed that there are some benefits which come from outside the country to such established commissions which could be used in the development of education.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]