IbadanPoly graduates 9,549 students
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

Oyo State Governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, has promised that his administration will continue to put in place policies that will sustain the dominant position of The Polytechnic, Ibadan among other tertiary institutions in the country.

The National Board for Technical Education had recently rated The Polytechnic Ibadan as the best in Nigeria among its peers under the control of state governments nationwide.

Speaking at the combined 32nd and 33rd graduation ceremonies for the 2015/2016 and 2016/2017 academic session over the weekend, the governor also lauded the efforts of the school’s management for complimenting the state government efforts at turning around the fortune of the 37-year-old institution.

The Rector of the institution, Prof. Olatunde Fawole, earlier in his address stated that this institution graduated a total number of 9,549 students, just as he charged them to be good ambassadors of the school.

The governor who was represented by the deputy, Otunba Moses Adeyemo acknowledged “the efforts of the management and staff of the Polytechnic over the years and in ensuring that they provide an enabling environment for effective teaching and learning. I commend the academic staff for putting the students through the various aspects of their courses and imparting in them the requisite knowledge.

“Your dedication to work, coupled with administrative acumen of the management and the governing council and the consistent support of the state government, no doubt, culminated in the rating of The Polytechnic, Ibadan, by the National Board for Technical Education as the best state-owned Polytechnic in Nigeria and the fourth best among the 112 rated Polytechnics in the country.

“My administration will continue to support the Governing Council of this Polytechnic in the formulation and implementation of laudable programmes that will uplift the institution and sustain her enviable position among tertiary institutions in Nigeria.

“Our ultimate goal is to make this institution number one, not just in the country, but on the continent of Africa. The present council, under the able leadership of Professor Isaac Adebayo Adeyemi, is no doubt living up to expectations. The council has been so dynamic and selfless in its handling of issues capable of moving the institution forward and higher.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]