Teachers need more resources, training – Proprietor
Tare Youdeowei

The founder of Seedtime Foundation, Mrs Adetola Oladeji, has said that teachers should be given more teaching resources and support to improve teaching quality, as well as to encourage passionate people to come into the profession.

Oladeji, who is also the Head of Secondary, Grange School, Ikeja, Lagos, made this known at the end-of-the-year party and seventh anniversary of the foundation recently held on the school’s premises.

She also said that to put an end to the literacy and numeracy crises in the country, focus and funding should be shifted to early childhood education.

She said, “I think we have forgotten about the foundation stage of the school. For example, when did Lagos State start the reception level? It used to just have from primary up. Reception is where you build the child, not when they get to the primary. There are some primary four children in some schools that cannot say a word in English and you wonder how they got to primary four. As such, the government has to put more funding into education.

“There is also need for well trained, passionate teachers. Also, there should be more resources and support for teachers so as to encourage passionate people to come into the field. Teachers have to earn well too, as is obtainable in some other countries if not the pupils and country would lose out.”

Also, the Special Guest Speaker at the event, Dr Bose Durojaiye, urged government at all levels and individuals to treat education, which she described as the best tool for unification, as top priority.

Durojaiye said, “Although education is free to a level now, it is a fact that Nigeria’s educational system needs a complete overhaul. With 9 million school-aged children out of school and the poor state of our public schools, it will be fair to say that we have failed our younger generation. This is an extremely depressing figure knowing that education helps in nation building.

“But there is hope. There is an urgent need to wake ourselves by improving our education system as citizens, notwithstanding what our government is doing or not doing. With NGOs like Seedtime Foundation, that have taken up the responsibility of improving education in public schools through Touch A Life where they are helping pupils from poor families to access post secondary education and other learning opportunities, there is hope for the nation.

“There are many other organisations working hard to help raise awareness among the masses, regarding the importance of education to children because motivating these children can help them break the poverty chain. By getting involved in such, we can all contribute to strengthening our systems and thus help in nation building.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]