Lack of political will is killing education sector —Bank-Olemoh
Tare Youdeowei

The Special Adviser to the Governor of Lagos State on Education, Mr Obafela Bank-Olemoh, has identified the lack of political will to develop education in Nigeria as one of the major challenges facing the sector.

Bank-Olemoh said this during the Lagos Economic Advisory Committee Education Stakeholders Roundtable held recently in Victoria Island, Lagos, where it was agreed that the quality of teachers and their remuneration had to be improved to steer the course of educational development in the state on the right path.

The special adviser said, “We need the political will, if not all that we are clamouring for will amount to nothing. We need to build a coalition of change. Public and private partnership needs to go beyond laws and rules. Members of the communities have to be involved because schools belong to them. There must be a deliberate focus on primary education because you cannot succeed in other forms of education if primary education is not sound. We must improve human capital to get results, to drive projects and implement policies.”

“We need to be radical about mopping up out-of-school children and find creative ways to improve access to schools. Research has shown that the best schools in Nigeria are private schools. As a result, closing down poor quality schools is really not the way to go. The solution is to improve the quality of public schools then have a grant for poor quality private schools to improve their standards or be fazed out. This brings to light the need for the school grading system which is not just about generating revenue for the state, it is most importantly about knowing schools that are not doing well in the private sector so they can be up-scaled.”

He argued that getting education right had to do with the quality of teachers and not necessarily the curriculum, since good teachers could make any curriculum work for the child.

“Teachers too have to be graded and certified every three years in the public and private sectors to ensure that they remain relevant to the system and useful to the pupils. This is in tandem with upgrading the teaching profession so that it moves from being a last resort for youths to being a destination to touch lives.

“Teachers also need to be taught to make the curriculum work for each child. There is excellence in every child and it is our job to work bring it out, be it literacy and numeracy, technical skills or entrepreneurial abilities. School administrators also need to be trained to become professionals so that they can be held accountable for the failure of pupils in public and private schools,” he said.

The Chairman Lagos EAC, Mr Bode Agusto, said the committee would ensure that the resolutions reached would go beyond mere talk to action, regardless of the government in power.

He said the goal of the roundtable was to improve education in the state and getting schools to focus on achieving the desired outcomes aligned with employers’ need.

Augusto said, “The state has 20 million Nigerians which is 10 per cent the country’s population. The state government earns N4b annually, which translates to N20,000 to cater to each person per annum. It is clear that government alone cannot go far. So we must find creative ways of solving the problem.

“About 35 years ago, primary education was free and secondary education was paid for. The population has exploded from that period to the present day. Can we really deliver quality education?

“To get quality education, pupils have to have skills that are valuable and marketable. To get this, even in the modern age, we need teachers and classrooms. There are 3.5million children of primary school age in the state, this means we need 115,000 teachers if classes have 30 pupils per class. How do we close the gap between demand and supply?”

On her part, the Co-founder Teach for Nigeria, Mrs Nike De-Souza, said that even though states were doing a lot to better education in their territory, a lot more still needed to be done.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]