Redeemer’s Polytechnic will raise champions in technology – Adeboye
Tare Youdeowei

At the just concluded Holy Ghost Congress, of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, the General Overseer, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, unveiled a polytechnic, the Redeemer’s College of Technology and Management.

Adeboye said the polytechnic was established with the goal of raising champions in the fields of technology and management.

He said, “The Redeemer’s College of Technology and Management is now open here at the Redemption Camp, so if you are interested in technology or management this is your opportunity, tell your friends or relatives, by the grace of God, this particular college of technology is well equipped.”

On his part, the rector of the college, Prof AdedejiDaramola, said, “RECTEM is fundamentally unique because of its vigorous involvement in research and development in technology, through its set pattern of exploratory innovation outside the traditional classroom environment. It is an avant-garde technological institution poised to provide its students with an education that combines rigorous academic study and the excitement of practical exploration and discovery through real-life simulations, extensive teaching and learning.

“The aim is to develop in each member of the RECTEM community, the ability and passion to work wisely, creatively and effectively for the betterment of humanity.”

The Polytechnic is set to provide leadership in the technological revolution of Africa by advancing the frontiers of practical knowledge and education in the field of science, technology, management and other areas of studies that will best serve the nation and the world at large,” Daramola said.

He added that the polytechnic would kick off with the schools of Science and Technology; Management Studies; Engineering Technology; and Environmental Science, all of which are of international standard and approved by the National Board for Technical Education.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]