Buhari, Tinubu, Ofeimun mourn as Sophie Oluwole dies at 83
Chux Ohai

Renowned philosopher and scholar, Prof Sophie Oluwole, has died at the age of 83.

Although our correspondent gathered that Oluwole passed on in the early hours of Sunday in her residence at Ibafo, Ogun State, the detail of her death was scanty as of the time of filing this report.

Reactions from President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, as well as from scholars and intellectuals, trailed the news of the philosopher’s passage.

The President, in a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, in Abuja on Monday, noted that the deceased had through her teachings and works celebrated the Yoruba culture, history and worldview and reminded the world that within pristine traditions there were values that promoted the ideals of democracy, fairness, equity and justice.

He urged all who mourned Prof. Oluwole to honour her memory by carrying on from where she left in her zeal to promote indigenous knowledge, skills and discipline that could help to redefine people and a nation.

In his reaction, the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, described the deceased as a distinguished academic and Yoruba nationalist who would be deeply missed because of her commitment to the development of the Yoruba culture, tradition and philosophy.

He said, “Prof. Sophie Oluwole loved and celebrated Yoruba tradition and philosophy so much that she was nicknamed Mamalawo (female herbalist). Nigeria, the Yoruba race and all those who admire pristine traditions will sorely miss her. Her teachings and works derived from the Yoruba school of philosophical thought. To her, the ancient African philosopher Orunmila was second to none.

“I commiserate with the Oluwole family, the academic community, students who passed through her. I pray they have the strength and resilience to continue where she stopped. To the soul of the late Prof, I pray for eternal rest.”

A former Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the university and a close friend of Oluwole, Prof. Duro Oni, in a telephone interview with our correspondent, said that Nigeria had lost a scholar and academic who gave an African philosophical perspective to her life and teachings.

Oni said, “Prof. Sophie Oluwole believed in and advanced the contribution of Africa to global discourse and civilisation. She confronted issues head on and made frequent appearances on television to advance the cause that she believed in.

“She was also, to the best of my knowledge, the first and only female Dean of Student Affairs at the University of Lagos, an assignment she took on even in perilous times. May her gentle soul rest in peace and may God grant her family the fortitude to bear the loss.”

Also, reacting to the sad develpment, renowned poet and culture activist, Odia Ofeimun, described Oluwole as one of the few women philosophers in Nigeria who were daring in probing new areas of thought.

He said, “Prof Oluwole had great respect for African traditions, in terms of fixing them into the broad spectrum of philosophical thinking across the world and showing how we could make use of them for a more advanced African civilisation.

“She was a particularly interesting woman in the sense that she liked to do what was unusual. No matter how people talked about modernisation, she did it in her own way and not by following convention.

“She was also fairly unusual in her approach to philosophy. She did not just treat African myths and ideas as belonging to the past. She tried to make them part of the world movement of philosophies from ancient Europe to the present day.

“When it came to defending women’s rights, she worked it out herself without being a follower of any specific modern trend. She was a feminist with a difference. In any case, she was particularly good at stating her position without making her being a woman to disturb whatever she thought about anything.”

Seasoned filmmaker, Tunde Kelani, prayed that Nigerians and indeed, the Yoruba would never forget the teachings of the departed philosopher.

“We should pray that her work as an African philosopher should not be in vain. We should also pray that people will remember what she stood for all her life and all she taught about the importance of African languages and culture. She was an expert in Ifa literature and Yoruba culture,” he said.

Born in 1936 at Igbara-Oke in Ondo State, Oluwole was Nigeria’s first female doctorate degree holder in philosophy. Educated at the University of Lagos and the University of Ibadan, she taught African Philosophy in UNILAG between 2002 and 2008. Her teachings and works are generally attributed to the Yoruba school of philosophical thought, which was ingrained in the cultural and religious beliefs of the various regions of Yorubaland.

Before her death, Oluwole had wished that Orunmila and Ifa were captured in a definitive book, much like the Bible and the Koran. Once, in an interview published in The Punch, she had argued that the critical symbol of the African essence was in danger as it principally remained an oral legacy.

Unfortunately, that dream was not fulfilled before she passed on.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]