Govt agencies must supply books to national library – Education minister
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, has said that failure on the part of government ministries, departments and agencies to deposit their publications with the National Library of Nigeria for public use may hinder public access to the items.

The minister said that government documents, such as policy statements, reports of commission of inquiries and past policy decisions must be with the library and made available for public use.

Adamu spoke during a sensitisation workshop on international standards organised by the NLN for publishing and legal deposit compliance for federal ministries, agencies and departments, which held at the Ministry of Education headquarters in Abuja.

Arguing that the habit of not depositing books with the library would not do the public any good, the minister said, “Government documents, such as statistical studies, reports of inquiries, hearings on government policies and past policy decisions are produced on a yearly basis, but they are not on public view. They are only limited to the agencies. This action does not project a good image. When government publications are not deposited in the library, the benefits to the public are denied.

“Access to the documents is needed for an effective implementation and monitoring of government programmes and activities. It is, therefore, necessary for copies of documents published to be deposited in the library for public use.”

The Chief Executive Officer of the National Library of Nigeria, Prof Lenrie Aina, said the agencies must ensure that the books also complied with international standards through the issuance of the International Book Number for books and reports and International Standard Serial Number for journals, newspapers and magazines.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]