Ekiti vocational schools get $3m World Bank grant
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The World Bank is set to spend the sum of $3m on three government-owned technical colleges in Ekiti State under the bank’s Innovation and Development Effectiveness for Acquisition of Skills programme.

World Bank’s Senior Education Specialist, Dr Tunde Adekola, said the IDEAS programme, which is private-sector driven, would focus on technical and vocational education skills.

Adekola, who spoke in Ado-Ekiti, the capital of the state, on Thursday during a meeting of the World Bank Team with Governor Kayode Fayemi, also said that the programme was aimed at skills acquisition for youth employability and empowerment.

The World Bank official said: “The IDEAS would provide training and certification for middle level manpower that would see technical colleges return to their original purpose of establishment.

“The World Bank is happy that the five-year programme aligns with the knowledge-based economy being pushed by the Fayemi-led administration,” he said, expressing confidence that the programme would be a great success in Ekiti State because of the full accreditation of the state-owned technical colleges.

The governor expressed optimism that the programme would address the deterioration of craftsmanship in the state, stressing that government must make technical and vocational education a desire.

Fayemi, who restated the readiness of the Ekiti State Government to improve youth empowerment in the state, said: “My administration will provide the necessary support for the immediate take-off of the IDEAS programme in the three benefiting technical colleges in the state”.

He faulted the belief in some quarters that technical education was meant for school drop-outs, saying there was need for “psychological reorientation” so that “people will know that not going to the university does not mean you are a failure”.

IDEAS, a World Bank’s SEPIP successor programme, was started in Ekiti State in November 2013 during the first tenure of Fayemi and had seen to the establishment of various education related projects, including the ongoing rehabilitation of the Government Technical College, Ado Ekiti.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]