135 pupils vie for scholarship award
Tare Youdeowei

About 135 pupils selected from public secondary schools in Ibadan, Oyo State, have sat for a qualifying examination for the Dr Adegbenga Sun-Basorun Scholarship Award, which is sponsored by FoodCo Nigeria Limited.

The scholarship, established in memory of the founder of the company, will see 70 pupils in junior secondary through to the completion of their secondary education.

Speaking on the scholarship, the Executive Director, FoodCo Nigeria Limited, Mr Ade Sun-Basorun, on Saturday, said it was set up to give equal opportunities to indigent pupils, as well as to reduce the burden of out-of-school children in the country.

He said, “The initiative will help ease the financial stress that families go through in their quest to provide quality education for their children and wards. I am optimistic that the scholarship will be a springboard for indigent pupils in Ibadan to achieve their academic and career aspirations. This aligns with the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility of impacting the lives of Ibadan residents through the provision of educational support, healthcare service and empowerment.”

Sun-Basorun added that the company worked with the management of the schools to nominate the most suitable beneficiaries to sit for the qualifying exams, as he explained the scope of the scholarship.

“For a start, the scheme is open to junior secondary school two pupils whose individual academic performances from the previous class will be an initial eligibility criterion. We have just concluded an eligibility test for pupils in seven secondary schools in Ibadan. In all, we are expecting to award scholarships to 50 to 70 pupils, depending on their performances,” he said.

On her part, the State Coordinator, Universal Basic Education Board, Ibadan Office, Mrs Lydia Gbagi, lauded the company for extending its CSR to the education sector. “It is always gratifying to see corporate organisations choose education as the platform to touch lives. We are delighted because this scheme will not only serve as an incentive to pupils, it would help to tackle the challenge of getting pupils in school and keeping them there.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]