Osun, Kaduna enroll 27,000 out-of-school children
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

About 27,000 out-of-school children have been enrolled in public schools in Osun and Kaduna states under the EduMarshals intervention programme in partnership with the state governments.

Our correspondent learnt that under the EduMarshals programme, which started in Osun State in 2017 and in Kaduna State in 2018, some marshals were also appointed by the government to go to the streets and ensure that the out-of-school children were registered in public primary and secondary schools.

It was gathered that 350 education marshals were appointed by the Kaduna State Government after inaugurating the programme in September 2018, while 150 marshals were appointed in Osun State by the government since 2017.

The EduMarshals Chief Executive Officer, Stella Blaize, in an interview with our correspondent in Abuja, said the programme is intended to penetrate the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, adding that Plateau and Niger states were the next focus of the intervention programme.

Blaize, an educationist formerly based in the United Kingdom, said the programme was “an urgent solution to Nigeria’s record as the country with the highest out-of-school children globally and 60 per cent illiterate population”, which she described as a worrying statistics.

She said, “Our goal is to collaborate with the state governments to remove these children from our streets. Now in Osun, Kaduna and partly in Plateau states, the aim is to make parents aware of their right to enrol their children in school for free, compulsory primary education. It is in the Child Rights Act.

“With EduMarshals and the Osun State Government which employed 150 marshals working with us, we have enrolled 23,000 out-of-school children since 2017. They were placed in primary and junior secondary school classes.

“In Kaduna State, we started in September 2018, and we have been able to enrol over 4000 kids. The number is growing because we have a large number of out-of-school children in the state. Our main objective is to tackle the out-of-school children’s menace. But in doing this, we also got to see some nonchalance in our public schools which actually encourages this problem.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]