Beware! Even governors misuse severally
Akeem Lasisi

Some expressions are so tricky that they can beat anyone hands down. An example of such is the adverb, severally. It is a word so widely misused that even a professor of English may not escape the grammatical scourge.

The problem, as we have pointed out several times (not severally) in this class, is that many people think severally means several times or many times. But its meaning is quite different from this. No wonder, the word recently beat two of our big men – the Cross River State Governor, Prof. Ben Ayade; and former Governor of Delta State, Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan. The fact is that if people of their calibre can get the expression mixed up, every other person must be on his or her guard.

On separate programmes on Channels TV, I caught each of them using the word in the way that is pervasively misused. Interestingly, Uduaghan’s case came up some two months ago when he featured on an intensive interview programme called Hard Copy. (Watch my spelling of occurred – double Cs, double Rs. The same thing applies to ‘occurrence’. But if it is the present tense, it is CC and single R: occur.)

During the piercing interview, Uduaghan needed to convince the host that his emergence as the governorship candidate in 2007 was neither by accident nor something he got on a silver platter. (Note, I didn’t say on a platter of gold, which is a wrong expression!) He needed to convince her that it was not really the case of one man handpicking him, as he had actively been in politics for some time before then. So, he stressed that he had severally participated in elections. Severally? No, the choice of the word is wrong in the context.

Ayade’s example is a more recent one – I think on Thursday or Friday – when I ran into a news programme during which he spoke on a Calas Vegas resort his government is building in Calabar. The way the governor spoke about the project showed that he is very passionate about it. Now, he needed to explain how his government arrived at the name, Calas Vegas. According to him, it is conceived to reflect the character of America’s Las Vegas, whose tourism profile Ayade finds to be very impressive. While trying to add that he had been to Las Vegas a couple of times, he said he had been there severally. Severally? No. The word has again been abused.

But note that we are not out to celebrate the mistake made by the top politicians. Rather, I want to convince us that severally is often misused by both the common man and the elite. This is why I decided to bring it back after we have treated it on more than one occasion in this class. So, let’s pay attention and get it right once and for all.

Although severally is an adverb (modifying a verb), it does not mean several times, often or many times. So, if you use it to depict so, you are wrong. In other words, there is a problem with the following clauses:

President Buhari has said severally that he will not relent in his fight against corruption.

The boy still went to play with his peers despite the fact that I warned him severally against doing so.

The clauses are erroneous because the meaning of severally is separately or one after the other. When two or more people did something, but they did not do it together, in union or as a team, it means they did it severally:

During the meeting, the governors severally addressed the security issue. (This does not mean that they addressed the matter repeatedly. Rather, they did so separately or one after the other.)

The couple severally admonished the boy. (The husband did so, and the wife did so – but separately.)

Dictionaries generally agree on the meaning of severally, just with more emphasis here or there. Whether Oxford, Cambridge, Longman, Collins or Webster, none defines severally as several times or many times. For instance, the Oxford Dictionary defines it as ‘separately or individually; each in turn’, with the example: The partners are jointly and severally liable.

Cambridge Dictionary, on the other hand, defines it as separately, rather than as a member of a group, with the following examples: All guests are considered to have severally agreed to these conditions. The partners are jointly and severally responsible for the company’s debts.

You must have noticed that there is a business or legal angle to the meaning of the word – based on some of the examples that have been used. On this, the Business Dictionary puts the meaning in perspective thus: exclusively, separately, singly, or solely. It adds that a severally-owned property is owned by one entity only; and being severally responsible for a debt or obligation is to be solely-responsible for its payment or satisfaction.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]