UNIBEN VC advises corporate bodies on funding education
Adekunle Peter, Benin

The Vice-Chancellor of University of Benin, Prof. Faraday Orumwense, has advised corporate bodies to join hands in funding university education.

He gave the advice while receiving items donated by the 1998 alumni of the Computer Science Department of the institution.

The items, valued at N10m, included Desktop Computers, UPS devices, data networking, Internet access and furniture.

Orumwense, who was represented by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academics), Prof. Pius Iribhogbe, commended the donors for their gesture.

“We appreciate the philanthropic gesture of these old students. We use this opportunity to call on corporate bodies to join hands with the government in funding quality education,” he said.

In her welcome address, the Chairman of the 1998 alumni, Mrs Nike Nwokocha, said the donation was their way of giving back to the society and complementing the efforts of the government in providing qualitative education for its citizens.

“The idea to prepare our students to face future challenges began 20 years ago. We want to provide modern information to students so that they can achieve success and international recognition in their professions. We thank the management of the university, as well lecturers of the department of computer science, for the good upbringing and good academic background we enjoyed.”

He listed them as: condition of service, the Polytechnic Law and, the financial regulations and accounting manual.

“These are documents and instruments that normally enhance performance of any institution, especially in this era of national and global competitiveness.

Hopefully, the revised documents would be ready for the consideration and approval of the council on or before the first quarter of 2019 and thereafter, the revised Polytechnic Law would be presented to the Governor for his assent through the normal channels.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]