‘Girl-child education way to peace, progress’
Tare Youdeowei

A diplomat, Dr Olatokunbo Awolowo-Dosunmu, has said that educating the girl-child is the only way for the country to secure peace and progress.

She made this statement during the 70th anniversary of the New Era Girls Secondary School, Surulere, Lagos, held on Tuesday.

Speaking to the pupils of the school, Awolowo-Dosunmu said, “You were given the opportunity to go to school, not all girls are. We were given the privilege to be born into families where we were considered important enough to be sent to school. Today, we are talking about educating the girl-child because it empowers not just them, but the whole nation. It is the only way to have peace and progress

“Girls, it is from this age that you determine what you want to do because it gives you focus. As you go about your life, do not let anyone convince you that you are inferior to any other human being, you are created in God’s image. It does not matter that you may not be an academic high flyer, you can still achieve your dream.”

At the event, the old girls commissioned projects worth N20m in the.

The National President of the Old Girls Association of the school, Dr Iyabo Runsewe-Abiodun, stressed the need to support the Federal Government in delivering quality education. She said, “Looking back, we found moral and infrastructural decadence in the school and that informed our decision to give back. Our first goal is to improve the academic and moral standards of the school. The visibility of the school will also be improved.

“We want to celebrate the girlchild that is why we commissioned 17 projects worth N20m for the school that has been shaping girls for the past 70 years. We cannot leave the delivery of quality education to the government alone.

The problems of girls emanate from the society and family that is why everyone has to be involved.

“The government should support girls by enacting policies in our favour. We have partnered the government even though we are of the opinion the school should be handed over to old girls. The projects we commissioned makes it obvious that we are well equipped to care of our school, no matter what, we will not relent.”

Urging girls to communicate their problems to avoid depression was Emike Oyemade, a teacher and author of sexual abuse book, Odofa. She said, “Young girls should be focused and exercise self-control. Learn to communicate your problems to the right people that will help you.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]