NERDC develops online safety curriculum for schools
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council has said that it is developing an online safety curriculum for Nigerian schools to protect children from Internet-related hazards.

The council said it was working with a non-governmental organisation, public and private Development Centre, to infuse the curriculum into school subjects including Computer studies, English Language, Civic Education, Commerce and Economics.

The NERDC Executive Secretary, Prof. Ismail Junaidu, stated this on Wednesday during a two-day workshop held in Abuja to begin the process of adoption of the curriculum for schools.

The workshop was organised by the PPDC, with support from Google.

The NERDC Executive Secretary, who was represented by the Director, Library and Informatics Centre, Dr Nnanna Eleri, said the safety curriculum would expose Nigerian pupils to the fundamentals of digital safety.

Junaidu said, “We are collaborating to ensure that Nigerian pupils are responsible and safe in the online world. There is the need to ensure the safe use of the Internet among young Nigerians as they explore, maximise and utilise all the benefits that it offers.

“It is on the basis that we nursed the idea of developing an online safety curriculum for Nigerian schools. This strategy became the most effectual since many of these young minds can be reached through the school system.”

Junaidu said the workshop would enable the stakeholders to come up with key components and features of the proposed curriculum.

The PPDC said the aim of the online safety curriculum was to “teach the Nigerian child the fundamentals of digital safety so that they can be safe and confident explorers of the online world.”

The PPDC Chief Executive Officer, Mrs Nkemdilim Ilo, said the adoption of online safety in schools’ curriculum would enable pupils to be responsible digital citizens who could use the Internet for socio-economic good.

“The Internet is web-based. So we need to begin to look at how to empower our young children to be safe online. What rules do they need to guide themselves with to be more responsible online; how do they interact on issues they do not understand like cyber bullying, fraudulent mails and sexual predators online? These are the areas the curriculum will address,” she added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]