Old pupils seek return of Christ’s School to Anglicans
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The old pupils of Christ’s School, Ado Ekiti, have called for the return of their alma mater to Anglican Communion, so as to facilitate the development of the school and the resuscitation of its ideals, culture and values.

The president of the National Working Committee of the 1988/93 Set of the school, Olumide Abegunde, who lamented that the standard of the school had fallen over time owing to government’s busy schedule, said the owners, and the alumni could manage the school.

Abegunde spoke in Ado Ekiti during the 25th graduation anniversary of the set, an occasion that marked the old pupils’ annual reunion, the Chief Olusola Bayode Scholarship Awards event and the inauguration of four renovated JSS 1 classrooms in the school.

He said: “Government has many responsibilities. At this formative stage, education should be taken seriously, hence the need for stakeholders to be in charge. The Anglican Communion owns the school. Under our call for return of the school to its original owners, there is an arrangement between the old pupils and Anglican Communion to run this school together.

“We will raise funds and get involved in the decision-making process, while the Anglican Communion will bring their godly training and godly principles to bear on the school and pupils. At present, there is infrastructural decay, look at the structures! If you cannot have new ones, the existing ones should be standing.” Abegunde said the annual scholarship schemes fell under three categories – Merit, Indigent and Overall Best Students in English Language from JSS1 to SSS3 He added, “We are giving back to the society that God used in moulding us over the years. It will assist the beneficiaries in their studies and as well spur others to perform better.”

The Planning Committee Chairman, Sogo Ajongbolo, said the yearly event was the product of the old pupils’ vision. “We want every child in Christ’s School to have the opportunity to succeed in life. We realised that our foundation in life was actually built in Christ’s School, hence our resolve to give back,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]