Council hails Buhari’s assent of NOUN amendment bill
Tare Youdeowei

The Council of the National Open University of Nigeria has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the assent of to the National Open University (Amendment) Bill 2018, which provides greater legitimacy to the university as a full-time open and distance learning institution.

The council made this known in a statement signed by its chairman, Prof. Peter Okebukola. It stated that the amendment would make graduates of the institution eligible for the National Youth Service Corps Scheme.

The statement partly read, “The NOUN (Amended) Act for which we eagerly await its gazetting, also provides for graduates of NOUN to be eligible for enrolment in the National Youth Service Corps Scheme. These provisions and others will set NOUN on a trajectory for improved delivery of quality university education, which would place students at par with conventional universities and a catalyst for our march to be the best open university in Africa by 2030.

“The council expresses deep appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari, the National Assembly, especially the Senate and House Committees on Tertiary Institutions and TETFund, the Honourable Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, the Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission, Prof. Abubakar Rasheed and well-meaning Nigerians who were part of the process leading to the enactment of the NOUN Amendment Act.”

The council also stated that it was in the process of strategising to double current enrolment from 500,000 to 1,000,000 within the next five years in accordance with the Ministerial Strategic Plan 2016-2019 on increasing access to university education in the country.

It said, “More importantly, the council is supporting the Senate of NOUN, under the leadership of Professor Abdalla Adamu, the Vice-Chancellor, to significantly improve the quality of the delivery process so that by 2025, NOUN graduates in at least five programmes will be the best in the Nigerian university system and will be graduates of first choice among public and private sector employers and indeed, be globally-reputed employers themselves.”

The council added that the institution was in the closing stage of hosting the African Centre of Excellence on Technology Enhanced Learning, funded by the World Bank through NUC between $4m to $6m in a five-year cycle, to focus on the development of IT technologies for improving the quality of learning and digital policies.

“The centre aims to achieve this through postgraduate education for capacity building and development of ICT tools and solutions; and the development of digital technologies for access to knowledge and quality improvement in the acquisition of critical skills in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics.

“The Centre also aims to build capacity to bridge the technology knowledge gap through development and research into ICT solutions (mobile technologies, virtual technologies) that will impact both public and private sector to foster economic growth in the country. NOUN is situated better than most universities to do this because of its online component,” the council said.

The council also made public the promotion of professors Onyeka Iwuchukwu, Comparative Literature; Saheed Ajibola, Mathematics; and Samaila Mande, Marketing and Communication; to the professorial cadre. As well as doctors Jonathan Aliede, Associate Professor of Mass Communication; Rosemary Adoga Obodo, Associate Professor of Guidance and Counselling; Kazeem Ibrahim Aminu, Associate Professor of Educational Psychology; Teju Alero Akujobi, Associate Professor of Law and Samson Babatunde Osoba, Associate Professor of Transport Management to the professorial cadre.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]