Indigent students get scholarship awards at First Technical University
The Chancellor of First Technical University, Ibadan, Chief Tunde Afolabi, has endowed a scholarship scheme to support exceptionally brilliant but indigent students who are unable to afford the university’s fees.

Made available through the Josephus Foundation, the scholarship is merit-based, covers tuition, accommodation and other fees for beneficiaries who are newly admitted undergraduates and direct entry students of the institution, beginning from the 2018/2019 academic session till the end of their study.

Speaking during the presentation of letters of award to beneficiaries, the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Ayobami Salami, appreciated the chancellor for his thoughtful generosity, as he stated the university’s commitment to its vision of being a world-class institution grounded in entrepreneurial practices, unique innovation, sustainability, science and international best practices for radical societal transformation.

Salami said, “The essence of First Tech-U is to raise the bar in tertiary education. This university was established to address the skills gap in the country and not to mass-produce unskilled certificate-wielding graduates, as it is in the country today. Here, our students are carefully baked to become outstanding entrepreneurs and innovators.”

The VC added that in addition to the Josephus Scholarship, there are also local government-backed scholarships available for students, as he declared that the management was committed to providing more support schemes to enable students have a best-in-class, globally competitive education.

Salami encouraged the students to justify their selection by demonstrating excellent moral and academic performance during their course of study.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]