How Africa can provide leadership to the world needs
What will be Global Africa’s unique contribution to the creation of a new, different, inclusive, caring, decolonised future as it, Global Africa, rises, carefully and unsteadily, to leadership of the world over the course of the next three generations, and as, concomitantly, Chinese leadership rises and then recedes?

If we look at the way African higher education has responded to this challenge until now it is clear that it has not gone far enough. Taking the post-apartheid democracy higher education project in South Africa as an example, we can discern at least four distinguishable features that define the nature and substance of its ambition.

These features are: first, transformation as an essential – yet narrow – focus on de-racialisation; second, transformation as the alignment of curricula and qualifications to suit the economy and the labour market; third, transformation with liberal notions of individual excellence and meritocracy at its core; and fourth, transformation as the merging of higher education institutions while effectively sustaining the inequitable and racially-organised institutional arrangements of the ancient regime.

At least until very recently, the conception and implementation of transformation has failed at a general system level, to disrupt, delink or precipitate an epistemic break from the status quo ante. This failure resulted in forfeiting the immediate possibility of nurturing a post-colonial university and related knowledge system.

In other parts of Africa, the early knowledge decolonisation projects hosted at various African knowledge production centres of excellence, such as the Ibadan School of History, the Dakar School of Culture and the Dar es Salaam School of Political Economy have actively sought to enable delinking and an epistemic break with the ancient regime.

However, these have not been sustained, as liberation leaders were replaced by – or themselves became – military rulers and despots during Africa’s lost decades (circa 1967–97). Thus, so much unfinished work lies ahead. But where does this commence?

The philosophy of Ubuntu

The South African educationalist and writer Es’kiaMphahlele holds that African humanism (ubuntu in the Nguni languages, or both in SeSotho, vumunhi in XiTsonga and uhuthu in TshiVenda) is the belief that human life – that is, the person and the personalised social units to which he or she belongs, which are the sole, sacred receptacles – is central to the universe. To ‘be’ underscores one’s very existence and the value of life.

The philosopher Mogobe Bernard Ramose confirms that the aphorism Mothokemothokabatho (I am because you are) implies the idea that “the individual human being is the subject and not the object of intrinsic value in its own right”, and that if it were not so, “it would be senseless to base the affirmation of one’s humanness on the recognition of the same in the other”; and that “it is meaningful to state that to denigrate and disrespect the other human being is in the first place to denigrate and disrespect oneself only if it is accepted that oneself is the subject worthy of dignity and respect”.

Source: universityworldnews.com

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]