‘West Africa yet to institutionalise research for economic growth’
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

THE dearth of research in universities in sub-Saharan African has been linked to the downward trend in economies and sustainable development plaguing many countries in the region.

The President, West African Research and Innovation Management Association, Prof. Labode Popoola, made this known while delivering the opening remark at the 12th WARIMA International Conference and Workshop with the theme, Strengthening research, innovation incubation and knowledge product delivery for national and regional development.

At the event, held at the Otunba Subomi Balogun Conference Centre, University of Ibadan, the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ibadan, Prof. Abel Olayinka, urged participants to let the conference reawaken the researchers and innovation managers on the importance of focusing research efforts on national and regional development, especially to reposition the West African sub-region for economic and social well-being.

Popoola, who is also the Vice-Chancellor of the Osun State University, lamented the inability of universities and other higher educational institutions in sub-Saharan Africa to internalise research and innovation management, which is key to sustainable development.

Popoola said, “Identification, planning, execution and ownership of the processes in research and research management go a long way in enhancing the outcome and impact that research can make to sustainable development. For this to happen, research and innovation management remains key.

“Unfortunately, this, as a concept is yet to be internalised in most universities and other higher educational institutions in sub-Saharan Africa. WARIMA has, therefore, renewed its commitment to ensuring that this ugly trend is reversed,” he assured.

He added that the association had partnered sister organisations, such as the South Africa Research and Innovation Management Association and the African Academic of Sciences, in collaboration with the Wellcome Trust to further develop the association and increase its membership and influence in the region.

Popoola gave the assurance that the conference would address the dearth in human resource in the field across the region.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]