Deserving corps members to bag presidential award – NYSC
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The National Youth Service Corps on Monday said it inaugurated a 13-member President’s Honours Award Selection Committee to shortlist corps members based on their Community Development Service projects.

The NYSC Director-General, Maj- Gen Suleiman Kazaure, inaugurated the committee in Abuja, noting that the Presidential award was meant to encourage diligence among corps members.

Kazaure urged the committee members to improve on the standards already set by their predecessors, adding that the public perception of the scheme was better due to corps members’ projects in the areas of infrastructure, education, healthcare delivery and agriculture in many rural communities across the country.”

The DG added, “As you commence the selection process, l implore you to approach the task dispassionately with the emergence of candidates that will be acceptable to all. The Community Development Service remains one of the major areas where the NYSC scheme has recorded remarkable success over the years.”

According to a statement issued by the NYSC Director of Press and Public Relations, Mrs Adenike Adeyemi, the President’s NYSC Honours Award was instituted in 1974 as a way of encouraging corps members to embrace national development by embarking on Community Development Service projects, among other activities.

The Acting Director, Corps Welfare and Inspectorate, Mr Sanusi Abdul-Rasheed, said the award would reward excellence in service and encourage corps members to see the dignity in labour and national integration.

Abdul-Rasheed said, “An on-the-spot assessment of the projects has been carried out, while the National Selection Committee will meticulously assess the nominees based on their citations forwarded by the state secretariats.”

The Chairman of the committee, Prof. Angela Miri, said the members would work with objectivity, while discharging their duties.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]