Private varsities are the future of tertiary education – Fajana
Tare Youdeowei

PROF. Sola Fajana of the University of Lagos has described private universities as the future of tertiary education in Nigeria.

Fajana made this known while delivering the fifth Distinguished Lecture of Mountain Top University, with the theme, Promoting educational rebirth through faith-based institutions: Thinking tomorrow today, on Thursday.

He said that a credible rebirth of the education sector would involve the deployment of technology, respecting the rights of others in the role set, embracing godly values and revitalising erstwhile university culture.

Fajana urged administrators of faith-based universities to have a positive atttitude towards raising morally sound graduates and re-entrenching academic culture in the university.

He said, “Thinking tomorrow today, faith-based institution managers and clients must have the right mind set. This involves compliance with extant regulations, establishment and consolidation of academic linkages, funding strategies, re-entrenching academic culture in the university and adoption of skill-building pedagogies.

“Faith-based institutions should continue to seek better ways of achieving their mandate. The choice of the direction in which a faith-based university should go is the responsibility of its proprietor. It is expected that access to technology assisted by the teaching and learning facilities will improve tertiary education in the future. This will assist in the implementation of the appropriate pedagogy that effectively drives skills building and global competitiveness in the products of the Nigerian universities system.

“Private universities are the future of tertiary education in Nigeria. They are the future legacy, our ivy leagues. The faith-based institutions are expected to carve a niche for themselves within the larger group of private universities, and thus readily make the tomorrow of the university system visible even today,” Fajana submitted.

Acknowledging the recommendation of the professor, the Vice-Chancellor of Mountain Top University, Prof. Elijah Ayolabi said, “There is no doubt that there is rot in the university system. The lecture not only fashioned ways out but showed us, faith-based institutions, where we fit in to make it right. We have to continually inject morals into the system by graduating students with the highest moral values into the society and leadership, year on year, so we can have a better Nigeria.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]