Al-Hikmah University to test students for drugs
Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin

Al-Hikmah University, an Islamic faith-based institution in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, has commenced testing of it students for hard drugs.

The Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Taofeek Ibrahim, disclosed this on Saturday during the 8th convocation of the institution.

Ibrahim explained that the university had commenced testing of incoming students on the use of hard drugs in order to effect appropriate intervention where applicable.

He added that any student found using hard drugs would be referred to a hospital, as well as to the guidance and counselling unit of the institution for reformation.

Ibrahim said, “Students’ discipline remains very high up on the university’s agenda in maintaining law, order and peace on our campuses. To sustain our mitigation of indiscipline among students, the compulsory accommodation of students in the university hostels and accredited private hostels remains in force.

“Also, the digital automated electronic ID card to monitor students attendance of lectures and unapproved absence from hostels at night, is commencing in this academic session. The university remains committed to improving facilities for students’ welfare and comfort in our learning environment.”

The VC also stated that the institution runs 47 undergraduate programmes, 21 postgraduate programmes and seven sub-degree diploma courses. He also said that the National Universities Commission had approved 18 new academic programmes for the institution.

Ibrahim said that 876 students would graduate from the university this year, of which 798 are undergraduates, 61 postgraduate and 17 sub-degree diploma.

In his address at the occasion, the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Governing council, Alhaji Muhammad Abubakar, urged universities in the country to be innovative and creative by embarking on industry-driven and marketable research.

He said, “Whether in humanities, social sciences, science and technology, our research efforts should be directed at solving specific problems. Our universities should make their researches marketable and turn them into sources of internally generated revenue.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]