Nigeria has only two million registered teachers — TRCN
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Federal Government has said that although Nigeria has two million qualified and registered teachers, the country is in need of 250,000 teachers annually to cater to the growing population of pupils.

Stating this on Thursday in Abuja, the Registrar of the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria, Prof Olusegun Ajiboye, noted that in some states of the federation some government-owned schools could only boast between two and four teachers.

Ajiboye said the sub-Saharan African region had a shortfall of about seven million school teachers and Nigeria carried a significant portion of that figure because of the country’s large population of out-of-school children – presently put about over 13 million kids.

He said, “Education is very critical to the development of any country. Just like every other profession, quackery is a problem and we want to remove quack teachers from our schools. What we are doing is to sensitise the people that quacks must be reported. Also, teachers who are still in school without the TRCN certification should do this before the deadline.

“So far, the TRCN has registered two million teachers all over the country since the inception of the council was registered. By registering, we mean those teachers who are qualified and have come forward for registration.

“In Sub-Saharan Africa, we still have a shortfall of about seven million school teachers and Nigeria carries a large chunk of that number. This is because we have the largest number of out-of-school children in the region.

“This is why Nigeria has a need of large number of teachers. When you get to some states, you will be surprised at the number of teachers you find in schools. We have been meeting with states to address this problem and the last state we went was Jigawa State.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]