Symposium calls for alternative teaching methods
Tare Youdeowei

At the 2018 Agbami Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics Symposium, stakeholders in the education sector called for alternative ways of teaching STEM subjects in such a way as to make pupils become curious and innovative.

They made this known at the Lagos Business School on Friday, where they discussed the theme Teaching STEM in the 21st Century: Current Trends, International Best Practices and Cross-Sector Action.

Organised by Star Deep Water Petroleum Limited and the parties in Agbami field, the event saw the Academic Director of LBS, Dr Olayinka David-West, recommend that pupils should not be made to choose an academic path too early in life if they are to become innovative.

David-West said, “Sadly, in Nigeria, children are made to choose, early in life, between science and the arts. If pupils were allowed to taste both sides long enough, they would do well in the sciences, even if they don’t go into formal practice. The knowledge of science is very necessary because science is life. It will make them more systematic, organised and productive.

“Teachers should find ways to make pupils more curious. Bring situations that are not confined to the textbook and prompt them to ask question. This is because the key to solving problems or being innovative is curiosity. Guide them towards finding creative ways to always keep their brain active.”

While speaking on Teaching STEM in the 21st Century, Dr Ijeoma Nwagwu of the LBS Sustainability Centre, explained that the symposium served to enhance 21stcentury thinking, creativity and collaboration, so as to build up ideas that address issues in education quality, particularly in STEM.

“A key component is training teachers to teach STEM in the 21st century because we find that students loose interest because of the way STEM is presented. Thus, it is about teaching them innovative ways to present STEM and leveraging technology to pique pupil’s interest. We are also looking at educating STEM in the way it applies to Nigeria. At LBS sustainability centre, we are seeking to work with private enterprises, government and teachers in reshaping education. There is a need for more collaboration and Agbami has created a model for what collaboration and long term engagement should look like,” Nwagwu said.

On his part, the Director of Star Deep Water Petroleum Limited, Mr Richard Kennedy, explained that the symposium had reached its third edition because the Agbami parties believed that the most rewarding investment is the investment in people.

He said, “We hope that this programme will identify issues in Nigeria’s STEM education reforms and provide strategies to ensure that STEM education is elevated to a national priority. It will also identify improved or alternative learning approaches in STEM education, including ways to strengthen the adaptation of these new trends to the educational sector.

“To succeed in this new information-based and technology-driven global society, Nigerian youths need to develop their capabilities in STEM to levels far exceeding what was considered acceptable in the past. STEM are undeniably some of the key subjects to study now because of the need for Nigeria to evolve the scientific and technological innovations needed to face the challenges of globalisation and build an evolving knowledge-based economy. More importantly, STEM education is directly linked to the global competitiveness and future economic prosperity of our country.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]