UCMAS takes Walking Calculator campaign to Oyo
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

With the declining quality of education and poor performances of pupils in public examinations, the Universal Concept Mental Arithmetic System has taken the global campaign to develop secondary school pupils into walking calculators to Oyo state.

UCMAC, which is present in 79 countries, has said it would train pupils in the state to learn, serve and excel.

This was made known by the Director, UCMAS West Africa, Mr Girish Gurbani, during the unveiling of the system at the University of Ibadan Conference Centre, where he disclosed that the project, which started in Nigeria with a centre in Lagos in 2015, had extended to seven states with over 40 schools running the model as a school curriculum activity.

Gurbani said, “UCMAS was designed to boost brain power and stimulate young minds by using abacus and mental arithmetic in a way that children find engaging and fun. It is not just about solving complex mathematical problems using mental arithmetic, but it is also about instilling and boosting confidence at that early stage in life.

“It teaches children between ages five and 14, the ability to focus on memory retention, enhancement and gives them the ability to do calculations without the use of an electronic device, thus, making them faster than a calculator.”

The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Mrs Ibironke Fatoki, who was represented by Mrs Adrat Durowoju, lauded the demonstration of the complex mental tests carried out on UCMAS-trained pupils from Lagos state, as she said the state government was willing to partner the organization in making Oyo pupils geniuses.

Also, the State Coordinator of UCMAS, Mrs Olufunmilayo Aderinoye said the state was ready to embrace the concept to train young minds and make geniuses out of them for the good of society and development of Nigeria.

Aderinoye added that the programme would take off in January, 2019 as she expressed optimism that the pupils would enjoy the full benefits of UCMAS like visualization skills, imagination skills, speed and accuracy, brain power, concentration, creativity, memorization, logical reasoning and all round academic proficiency.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]