Osinbajo is welcome in OAU – Olarenwaju
The Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Osun State, has called on the general public to disregard, in its entirety, a release written by a supposed student expressing a personal opinion that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was not welcome in the university.

This was made known in a statement issued by OAU’s Public Relations Officer, Abiodun Olarewaju, who stated that the Governing Council, management, Senate, staff and students of the university, hold the office of the Vice President and the person of Osinbajo in high esteem and shall never hesitate to continue in that manner.

READ ALSO: Suspected cult kingpin killed in Osogbo

The statement reads, “The OAU Community, particularly the students, are eagerly waiting for a day when either President Muhammadu Buhari or Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, or both of them, will come to OAU on a visit. The community is ready to give a rousing welcome to the Senior Advocate of Nigeria and renowned professor of law whose brilliant performance in the present administration has done the academic community proud.

“We hereby advise the general public to disregard, in its entirety, the release by anybody which runs contrary to the motto of the university: For Learning and Culture. We want to reassure the students that the present university academic calendar is on course and remains sacrosanct.”

The PRO also disclosed that the university, as approved by its Senate, would confer an Honorary Degree on Prof. Biodun Jeyifo, who the university described as “a very distinguished Nigerian academic and radical intellectual activist.”

The statement added that Jeyifo is an Emeritus Professor of English at Cornell University in the United States and, currently, professor of African and American Studies, as well as of Comparative Literature at Harvard University, also in the US and he would be honoured during the 43rd combined convocations of the university.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]