Buhari charges varsities to embrace FG’s entrepreneurial education policy
Peter Dada, Akure

President Muhammadu Buhari has urged tertiary institutions in the country to key into the entrepreneurial and technology education policy of the Federal Government.

He also charged the tertiary institutions to intensify efforts on the actualisation of the Sustainable Development Goals for economic growth and national development.

The President said this during the combined 29th and 30th convocation ceremonies of the Federal University of Technology, Akure , Ondo State.

The President, who was represented at the occasion by the Director of Accreditation, National University Commission, Dr Noel Biodun, noted that the roles of universities in economic growth and national development could not be overemphasised.

He said, “In this age of Informational Communication Technology, we believe that our universities of technology are pivotal to the actualisation of our national development agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations.”

According to him, the training acquired from universities would help to produce highly qualified manpower to solve the myriads problems facing the nation, such as insecurity and unemployment.

“It has become imperative for our tertiary institutions to align with the Incheon Education 2030 Agenda, which advocates education for self-reliance, basic skills and competencies needed in the 21st century.

“I enjoin FUTA and indeed, all other universities to key into the entrepreneurial and technology education policy of the Federal Government as enunciated in the Economic Recovery Growth Plan and the Ministerial Strategic Plan,” Buhari urged .

He explained that the policy would empower graduates to become employers of labour rather than roam the streets in search of scarce white collar jobs.

He said the Federal Government would continue to be committed towards developing the education sector through infrastructural development and increased funding of the universities.

The President added, “Government is also determined to improve access to the quality of our educational system. While government will conscientiously play its role to place Nigerian universities on a higher pedestal.

“The FG will continue to provide necessary interventions for infrastructural development, training and retraining of staff and research through the instrument of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund and other sources.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]