Mathematics will solve Nigeria’s problems, says Don
Tare Youdeowei

A professor of Mathematics at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Samuel Okoya, has called on experts to use mathematical models to solve the country’s problems.

He made the call during the 329th Inaugural Lecture of the university, themed, The many ‘faces’ of thermal explosion: Mathematical modelling point of view, where he also blamed teachers of Mathematics and lecturers for people’s disinterest in the subject.

Recommending the use of mathematical models in everyday life, Okoya said, “The only way to solve the myriad problems we face in the country is by using mathematical models. We should use them in everyday life. When you model your problem mathematically, then you can solve it by using techniques formulated to get solutions, either quantitatively or qualitatively. You can also explain what you are doing to people who are specialists in other areas. We need to get experts who are using this model to formulate a way out for the country and Nigeria will be better for us.

“Everything is based on the mathematical model. When Mathematics is applied to the real world, the most important thing is not whether it represents the complex mathematical techniques. Does it tell something meaningful about reality? We make impact by solving important mathematical problems derived from everyday living.”

Calling on teachers and lecturers of Mathematics to improve their teaching methods, Okoya said the ability of students to develop interest in the subject lies solely in the way it is being taught in schools. He urged instructors to simplify the subject to make learning easier.

The professor also urged the Federal Government to make Mathematics a course of interest by implementing a comprehensive system to identify and encourage bright students.

He said, “We have the National Mathematical Centre where they organise quiz contests for secondary schools. Is there any follow up? Are those who have won the competition monitored up to university level? Are they given scholarships? Are they encouraged? That is one of the ways by which we can ensure that Mathematics is appreciated by our young ones.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]