Use scientific methods to solve security challenges, NSRDA urges FG
Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin

The Director of the Centre for Atmospheric Research, National Space Research and Development Agency, Prof Akeem Rabiu, has called on the Federal Government to enforce scientifically established solutions to the current security challenges in the country.

He made this known on Monday during the University of Ilorin’s 13th Mosobalaje Oyawoye Lecture organised by the Faculty of Life and Physical Sciences, where he spoke on the theme, Science and technology, town and gown: Available nexus for sustainable development.

Rabiu added that patronage of space research and technology hold the key to solving the security crises in the country.

“Kidnappings, armed robbery, vandalisation of public infrastructure and the instance f terrorism are menaces that space technology has solutions for. For effective aerial surveillance which can be achieved with constellation of high resolution earth observation satellites network, some unmanned aerial vehicles, distributed surface mounted cameras, ground control rooms equipped with customised ICT and experts, are all we need to effectively man our country’s land and borders. This kind of system would complement our security outfits and build confidence in any investor,” Rabiu said.

He also recalled that space technology enabled Brussels and United States detect the terrorists behind the bombings of the Brussels airport of March, 2006 and Boston marathon of April 15th, 2013 within a few hours.

Rabiu, however, lamented that, “Nigeria, a nation blessed with tremendous natural and human resources is in a sorry state of under development. The duality of science and technology have been engaged in some other nations of the world to create sustainable development, there is no reason we cannot do same.”

In his remark, the Vice-Chancellor of UNIILORIN, Prof Sulyman Abdulkareem, said science and technology are a veritable for the development of any nation.

Represented by Deputy Vice Chancellor, Academics, Prof Sylvia Malomo, Abdulkareem added that “science and technology are Siamese twins that cannot be separated. Both are needed for the development of the society and the tool for acquiring them is knowledge.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]