Lagos to include HIV sensitisation in schools curricula
Dayo Ojerinde

The CEO, Lagos State Aids Control Agency, Dr Oluseyi Tenowo, has said that the Lagos State Government is planning to include HIV/AID sensitisation in the curricula for government-owned primary and secondary schools.

Tenowo, who was represented by a Senior Project Officer of the Agency, Dr Folasade Olaosebikan, made the statement during the unveiling of the 2018 HIV/AIDS awareness campaign project for five secondary schools in the state at the Oshodi Comprehensive Senior High School, Oshodi, Lagos.

She said that if pupils were taught HIV/AIDS control at a young age, it would be difficult for them to engage in unprotected sex and other actions that could expose them to the danger of contracting the deadly virus.

“More than 40m people are living with HIV worldwide and about 35m of them are adolescents. Therefore, to have an HIV free generation, we need to attend to the young people from age 10 upward and teach them how to avoid the virus.

“The Lagos State AIDS Control Agency has a partnership with the ministry of health and education to include HIV/AIDS education in the school curriculum and that would be done soon,” Tenowo said.

Also, the Managing Director, Total Upstream Nigeria Limited, Mr Nicolas Terraz, said the youth exposed themselves to infection with the HIV/AIDS virus whenever they engaged in risky behaviours, such as drugs abuse and cult activities, among others.

Terraz, who was represented by the GM, Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development, Total Upstream Nigeria Limited, Dr Charles Ngeribara, said it was disturbing that the prevalent rates of HIV/AIDS infection remained high due to negligence and ignorance.

“To reduce the impact of this disease, we join the UN and the WHO as part of a broad-based coalition that is leading the fight against HIV/AIDS. Prevention is not only better than cure, but it is also cheaper and prevents complications,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]