5,400 schoolteachers fail qualifying exam nationwide
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

About 5,400 primary and secondary school teachers out of the 17,000, who sat for the professional qualifying examination organised by the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria in October, were unsuccessful.

The Registrar of TRCN, Prof. Olusegun Ajiboye, who stated this in an exclusive interview with our correspondent in Abuja, also said the number of teachers who failed the examination represented 32 per cent of the total number of candidates.

Our correspondent learnt that the council initially conducted a teachers’ qualifying examination in October 2017 where 22,000 teachers registered. Then in 2018, there were two qualifying examinations – the May diet and the October diet.

While more than 18,000 teachers sat for the May examination, 17,000 teachers sat for the most recent October 2018 examination where about 68 per cent of teachers passed the examination.

Ajiboye said that the 5,400 teachers who failed the qualifying examination would be given an opportunity to resit before the expiration of the December 2019 deadline for teachers without professional certificates.

The registrar said, “In 2017, we stopped registering teachers on the basis of the presentation of certificates and we introduced the professional teachers’ qualifying certificate. The first examination was written on October 14, 2017.

“Initially, people thought it was going to be a paper-and-pencil test, but we actually introduced the Computer-Based Test. This is because we want the teachers to be computer savvy. They must not be BBC (born before computer) teachers. They have to learn how to use a computer.

“In October 2018, 17,000 teachers took the examination and 68 per cent passed. This is a professional qualifying examination, it is not a once-and-for-all exercise.

“So the teachers who failed have an opportunity to resit the examination and pass. This is because by December 2019, if a teacher is not registered by our council and he or she does not hold the professional certificate, such a teacher will be shown the way out of the classroom.”

The registrar added that the council had started working on the Teachers’ Career Progression Policy document, which would enhance the quality of teachers, their welfare and professionalism.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]