Education critical to Nigeria’s development – Osinbajo
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Tuesday said that education was critical to Nigeria’s development, adding that the Federal Government would continue to provide funding for the education sector.

Speaking in Abuja during the opening ceremony of a two-day workshop on sustainable funding of the education sector, Osinbajo urged government at all levels to give priority to how best to achieve quality education.

The Vice President, who was represented by the Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udo Udoma, also said, “Adequate funding and strategic planning are knitted and the two must be pursued together.

We have consistently supported the education sector by raising its budget every year since we came on board. For instance in the first budget that we did, we took up the capital allocation for education to N35.99bn in 2016. Then in 2017 we took it up to N56.81bn and this year 2018, the current capital budget for education is N102.9bn.”

The Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, who attended the event, said there was a need for adequate funding and planning to move the education sector forward.

He said, “The main problem is that if a teacher doesn’t get good pre-service training, he is not likely to offer anything useful to his pupils. Education is the responsibility of all and I call on the various state and local governments, agencies, parastatals and Nigerians to join hands so that we can raise the funds needed for education.”

A representative of the World Bank, Harnas Chandy, urged African countries to move fast to improve the quality of education by investing in education.

“The world needs to improve. There are some key players in the world and Nigeria is one of them, as such, for the world to do well, Nigeria has to do well,” Chandy added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]