Bayelsa unveils online scratch cards for primary schools
Samuel Nkemakolem, Yenagoa

The Bayelsa State Government has unveiled online scratch cards for the First School Leaving Certificate Examination and the Restoration Scholarship Examination, respectively.

The new online scratch card system, initiated by the State Ministry of Education under the Commissioner, Jonathan Obuebite, is expected to be used to check the results of the 2018 First School Leaving Certificate Examination.

The first of its kind in Nigeria, Obuebite said that the introduction of the scratch card would enable primary school pupils and their parents check the results of the examinations online, as well as save time, cost and money for parents.

He said, “Today is another milestone that we have achieved as a state. I dare say that Bayelsa is the only state in Nigeria that has gone digital in terms of record keeping for the First School Leaving Certificate Examination.

“We we are doing this because we want to breach an existing gap. Before now after the examination, you wait till the ministry does the marking and the results are sent manually to your school.

“In the past, you had to travel a long distance to your school to find out if you passed or not and also to access your result. Fortunately, this will no longer be the order of the day.”

While thanking Governor Seriake Dickson for keying into the scheme wholeheartedly, Obuebite noted that the governor had always wanted the state to be known for innovations.

With this innovation, he said, the issue of missing or damaged certificates would become a thing of the past.

Also speaking, the Commissioner of Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Martins and his counterpart in the Ministry of Environment, Mr Ebipatei Apaingolo, applauded the initiatives of the education commissioner.

Earlier in her remark, the Director, Examinations and Records, in the Ministry of Education, Mrs Emily Mieyefa, said that 19, 310 pupils registered for this year’s common entrance examination.

With 483 public primary schools and 76 private schools taking part in the examination, 734 pupils came out with distinction and 350 pupils obtained credit pass, while the rest got ordinary pass.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]