Varsity students to win N1.8m in ideas competition
Ada Wodu, Calabar

University undergraduates in Nigeria are to go home with N1.8 million cumulatively as prize money, if they present the best business ideas in the Africa Plus Partners Student Venture Prize competition.

The Chief Investment Officer of Africa Plus Partners, Adeniran Ajakaiye, who announced this at a briefing held in Calabar, said “The idea behind the maiden APP Student Venture Prize Awards is to encourage students from all Nigerian universities not to underestimate the potential of their ideas.”

He said only students with verifiable matriculation numbers would be eligible to participate in the competition, adding that the prize money for the event, which would be organised annually, was for the business idea, and not for the funding of start-up business.

Also speaking about the awards, the Chief Executive Officer of Edugist and consultant to the prize, Elvis Boniface, said “APP Student Venture Prize is designed to empower the most advanced, yet simple entrepreneurial ventures by Nigerian undergraduates. It seeks to support individual students who have identified significant opportunities and whose ventures have the potential to create impact at scale.”

He said interested applicants could log on to www.africaplusfund.com/student-venture <http://www.africaplusfund.com/student-venture> and submit their applications on line before the November 10, 2019 deadline.

Boniface added, “At the expiration of the deadline for application, 10 finalists will be shortlisted and camped for one week in a boot camp for intense training on different aspects of practical business education and the understanding of the business environment, among others.”

He said the boot camp would climax in a Lion’s Den/Grand Finale, during which the finalists would be expected to pitch their big ideas.

“The Grand winner(s) will win N1m in cash, which is designed to launch their high-impact ventures into the world,” he added.

The first runner-up will get N500,000, while the second runner-up will receive N300,000 as rewards.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]