Anxiety grips Ogun PTA teachers over sack threat
Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta

Teachers employed by Parent-Teacher Association in Ogun State are currently in a state of anxiety over alleged threat to sack them by principals and headteachers of public primary and secondary schools across the state.

Our correspondent gathered that some of the principals and headteachers threatened to sack the PTA teachers, following the suspension of the PTA levy in schools by Governor Dapo Abiodun.

Abiodun had recently announced the suspension of the controversial N3,700 PTA levy, describing it as a fee that made nonsense of the free education policy in the state.

Consequently, the principals and headteachers in the public schools allegedly resolved to ease out the PTA teachers and other casual workers in the schools.

Our correspondent reliably gathered that the principals and headteachers’ alleged decision to lay off the PTA teachers was due to lack of funds to pay their monthly salaries.

It was further gathered that apart from the PTA teachers, security men who were also employed by the PTA to secure the properties of the public schools in the state were also affected.

The state PTA Chairman, Olusegun Folorunsho, confirmed the alleged sack threat by the principals and headteachers in public schools.

Folorunsho said efforts were in top gear to stop the sacking of the PTA teachers.

He added that the association was responsible for the payment of the members of staff employed by the PTA.

He said, “The principals have called me, the PTA teachers have started calling me and I have told them to be patient.

“All the teachers in primary schools have started calling me, as well asking what they should do, but I told them to wait till we meet on Wednesday.

“This government belongs to us. We have met with the Special Adviser to the Governor in charge of Education on this issue and he told us that they should not sack them.

“I have told the principals and headteachers that they should wait. There is going to be a meeting. They have told us to hold a meeting afterwards and tell them what we want.

“We believe something positive will come out of it because this government is ready to listen to us”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]