Ex-UN chief to deliver UNILAG 50th anniversary lecture
Dayo Ojerinde

A former United Nations Under-Secretary-General and the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Sustainable Energy, Dr Kandeh Yumkella, will deliver the 50th anniversary lecture of the University of Lagos.

At a briefing held on Monday, the President of the University of Lagos Alumni Association, Dr John Momoh, said the theme of the lecture is, ‘How Nigeria Can Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.’

He added that the anniversary, scheduled to hold between October 13 and 25, 2019, would have the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, Dr Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, as one of the discussants at the event.

A former Acting Managing Director of the Bank of Industry Limited, Dr Waheed Olagunju, said Nigeria did not fare well in the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, hence the need to join hands with the Federal Government.

Olagunji, who is also the chairman of the programme sub-committee of the anniversary, said, “This time around, we must make the SDGs a template of development in Nigeria. The government cannot do it alone. There is a need for collaboration with the private sector.

“We are doing our best to be relevant to the development of the country. There is a correlation between poverty and unemployment. We can’t eliminate poverty without tackling unemployment.”

The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof Toyin Ogundipe, noted that the 50th anniversary celebration was coming at the right time.

He said, “This is the right time to celebrate the University of Lagos. The recent ranking by Times Higher Education recently put the university somewhere between the 801st and 1000th positions in the world.

“Between 2017 and the present day, the institution has been able to attract research grants of over N5bn in the area of research. The University of Lagos is a brand that other universities want to contest with. It is a university of first choice and the nation’s pride. In the political space, our alumni are all over the place. The Vice President, Governor of Lagos State, the Deputy Governor of Ekiti State and the Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives are all from the University of Lagos. This is a big celebration that I believe everyone will want to align with.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]