Don’t go into education to make profit –Proprietor
Seun Adesoye

The proprietor and founder of Legacy Schools in Akowonjo area of Lagos State, Chief Pauline Oshunrinde, has advised private individuals not to go into education with the sole aim of making a profit.

She also cautioned against borrowing money to run a school because the interest on the loan could kill the establishment.

Oshunrinde said this on Tuesday during the 59th Independence Day celebration and 30th anniversary of the school, where she also marked her 70th birthday.

At the event held at the school’s premises, the former trader turned educationist, disclosed that her love for education took her back to school as an adult and was the secret to the Legacy Schools’ success in the past 30 years.

She said, “When I was younger I was a very brilliant student but I was also affected by the war. After the war, marriage and two children, I went back to school after so many years of trading and doing other businesses because I knew I had the brain for it. I set up the adult education centre in 1989 when I was 40, was also a student of the school and I scaled through to the University of Lagos to study education and business administration. Due to the performance of the school, the adult students told the teachers to advise the owner to set up a secondary school, and I listened.

“With passion, I entered into education and if you have passion for something, you will never be disappointed. Even when you meet obstacles, you will still carry on. School owners should stop expecting a profit, it cannot come like that. More effort should be put into grooming the children and building a legacy in them. Even though the school is not a charity organisation, don’t be out to make money. Don’t go into education with the sole aim of making a profit. Don’t rush into borrowing money to run a school because the interest on the loan could kill the establishment.”

The septuagenarian also urged school owners to seek to contribute to life and wait for the reward that she was sure would surely come. “Private education is tough to run because of competition but tell yourself you are not competing with anybody but are doing what is right. Also, schools that employ people without a foundation in education should desist from it. Instead, the recruits should be enrolled in one educational programme or the other so that they are equipped to give children the best,” Oshunrinde said.

Also, the pioneer principal and staff of the school, Mr Abayomi Ajiboye, in view of the World Teachers’ Day, lamented that the teaching profession was not being taken seriously by the government, parents, students and even schools’ management, as he called for a change of orientation towards the profession.

Ajiboye said, “The sad reality is that people see teaching as a last resort or something to use to pass time, that is not what it should be. Teaching should only be for those who have a passion for taking care of children. Teachers, themselves, have to do something about this predicament. The government needs to change its view of the teaching profession and parents too; they need to know that parents are the key to their children becoming something tomorrow. The mindset of the country must change to look at teachers as a precious source of knowledge.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]