NAPS demands more intervention for polytechnics
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The National Association of Polytechnic Students has asked the Tertiary Education Trust Fund to improve on the funding of polytechnics and polytechnic education in the country.

The association, at a briefing held in Abuja on Friday noted that the present TETFund funding ratio at 2:1:1 for universities, polytechnics and colleges of education should be reviewed to 2:2:1 to cater to the increasing number of polytechnics, particularly at the state level.

The NAPS National President, Mohammed Eneji, who addressed the briefing, said, “We have over 634 tertiary institutions that are under our association, particularly technology-related schools offering Higher National Diplomas and National Diplomas.

“We held a meeting with TETFund and we made it clear that the ratio of funding that the fund gives to our tertiary institutions should be increased. It is currently 2:1:1. We feel that now that more polytechnics are emerging from various states across the country, the National Board for Technical Education should increase funding of for polytechnics to 2.2.1

“We have also cried to the Federal Ministry of Education to properly fund our polytechnics. Even the ones we have are not properly funded. So the proliferation and duplication of polytechnics in some states is not a welcome idea. In as much as we want more students to come in, we want infrastructural development to be given attention.”

The NAPS president noted that the National Board for Technical Education had concluded plans to introduce Psychometric Education into the Nigerian tertiary institution curriculum, which the students saw as a welcome development.

“The introduction of psychometric education if implemented will go a long way in helping students to maximise their potential in their various fields of study. We urge the Federal Government to hasten the implementation of this programme so that it can kick off in the coming 2019/2020 academic session,” he added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]