‘Pupils need change of mindset’
Tare Youdeowei

The Convener of the Building Young Entrepreneurs campaign, Mr Bright Oloyo, has said that secondary school pupils need an urgent change of mindset to face the growing unemployment in the country.

He made this known during a briefing held on Monday in Ikeja, Lagos, where he disclosed that the BYE campaign would focus on steering pupils towards discovering their innate business goals and setting up small businesses.

Oloyo also said that the campaign, themed, Steering the Nigerian child towards entrepreneurship and good leadership, would reach 1,000 schools and 50,000 pupils.

He said, “In the face of growing unemployment coupled with an education system that is designed to produce job seekers rather than job creators, the importance of a mindset change for school age children cannot be overemphasised. The focus should be the creation and management of new small businesses, which actually make the success stories of developed economies.

“The nationwide campaign, which partners the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools, B-WAKS consultants, Nobelova Gradani Psychoeducational Services, and other businesses, is designed to steer young minds toward the acquisition of entrepreneurial and industry leadership skills, prepare them for the challenges, as well as provide them with the needed guidelines to succeed. It is to also to provide coaching and mentoring.”

On why secondary school pupils were targeted, Oloyo said it was intended to meet them at the point where they choose their career. “We shall begin in Lagos and we are targeting secondary schools pupils because they choose their career in secondary school and pursue that path upon admission to the university. Hence, it is imperative that they are the targets. The campaign will help us to identify the pupils who are interested in entrepreneurship and a selected number will be coached and mentored to become successful entrepreneurs,” Oloyo submitted.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]