Mgbemena, Akinleye emerge winners of 2018 Cowbellpedia
Dayo Ojerinde

The duo of Chinedu Mgbemena of Graceland International School, Port Harcourt, Rivers State and Akinfoluhan Akinleye of The Ambassadors College, Ota, Ogun State, have emerged winners of the 2018 edition of the Cowbellpedia Secondary Schools Mathematics Television Quiz Show in the senior and junior categories, respectively.

The event, aimed at stimulating and reawakening interest in Mathematics among secondary school pupils, which took place last Saturday at the Just Media Studios in Ogba, Lagos, saw each winner go home with N2m and a free educational excursion outside the country.

Disclosing that there were plans to bring the top pupils into the organisation after leaving school, the Managing Director of Promasidor Nigeria Limited, Anders Einarsson, said, “This showcases the extraordinary talent that we have in Nigeria. It shows the opportunities we have to transform our nation for the better. We have stuck with Mathematics because we believe that it is the foundation for building this country.

“The winners should continue the extraordinary work. Hopefully, these individuals will become leaders of this country that will take us to the next level. The programme has absolutely met its objectives 20 years after its commencement. We are committed to this initiative and Promasidor will continue to support the academic development of Nigerian children.”

Expressing his joy at winning the contest, 16-year-old Mgbemena said, “I thank God and my teacher, Mr Christopher Olasupo, for guiding me to victory. My aim in this competition has been to be the best and ultimately, the champion. That is why I practised Mathematics for long hours every day. I thank God today that the effort was worth it. I am happy I made my parents proud.”

Also, Akinleye described his victory as refreshing and exciting. The 13-year-old said, “I feel very happy to have scaled the hurdle to the final and won, especially being my first time of participating in the competition. My father will be so happy.”

The first and second runners-up received cash prices of N1.5m and N1m, while their teachers went home with the sums of N500,000, N400,000 and N300,000, respectively.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]