LASU’s regularisation will be completed in a month – Ambode
Tare Youdeowei

At the 30th anniversary of the pioneer 1988 class of Lagos State University, Ojo, Lagos, the Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State disclosed in a month, LASU’s regularisation would be complete.

Represented by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Education, Mr Obafela Bank-Olemoh, Ambode, at the class’ reunion dinner held on Saturday at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos, added that a 6,000 bed hostel was to be built in the university.

He said, “Our excitement is that in the past three years and half, we have been committed to restoring LASU to its past glory. We have commissioned a new theatre hall and a 6,000 bed hostel is on its way. In one month LASU’s regularization would be complete and this would ensure that resources are not lost and things are done right to grow LASU and make it become among the top five universities in Nigeria.”

Giving a progress report on the university since 1988 was the Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof Lanre Fagbohun, who disclosed that the school had grown to become the highest ranking state university in Nigeria.

Fagbohun, represented by Prof Leke Fakoya, equated LASU to the University of Lagos and the University of Ibadan. “I am pleased so many of us are in high places. This is the first time LASU is recording this kind of event and I am happy to witness it. LASU has moved to the ranks of universities like the University of Lagos and University of Ibadan. LASU is presently the highest ranking state university in Nigeria, it is growing in leaps and bounds and I implore you to send your children or grandchildren to LASU.”

In celebrating their 30th anniversary, the class’ Chairman, Mr Kunle Ojeikere, announced that a research fund had been set up to find better ways to treat ailments.

He said, “To celebrate our 30th, we have instituted a five million naira research fund for research into any ailment of the research institute’s choice. Every year the fund would increase and the unit would be headed by a representative from the alumni body, the university administration and a member of our set.”

“This is a celebration of where we are coming from and who we are today. We want to rekindle old friendships and start new ones. We must do all we can to lift the name of LASU above all others. We need to live up to our reputation as trail blazers and be an example to other sets. We should preserve the bond of unity, celebrate each other and help those that are not doing well amongst us. We also remember those we have lost and will do well to make their loved ones comfortable.”

The celebration also saw Prof Ibikunle Tijani speak on Prospecting and Sustaining a World Class University in Nigeria; Lagos State University 30 years After, where he called for sustainable digitisation funding.

Tijani said, “To build a world class university in Nigeria requires faith, dedication and sacrifice. You cannot be acknowledged as a world class institution if the components of teaching, learning, mentoring, research and service among staff remain a façade.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]