Foundation disburses N143m to 1,516 underprivileged persons
A total of 1,516 indigent and physically challenged persons in Lagos have benefitted from the wealth redistribution scheme of the Zakat and Sadaqat Foundation this year, the Executive Director of the group, Sulayman Olagunju, has said.

He said the beneficiaries received a total of N142.9m out of the N318m it collected from the well-to-do Muslims as zakat this year.

He spoke in Lagos on Sunday at the 14th Zakat Distribution Ceremony of the foundation, where he expressed worry over the growing rate of poverty in the country.

Olagunju said, “We were deeply touched by the number of Nigerians wallowing in abject poverty, which has been one of the propelling forces driving us to step up zakat collections on yearly basis despite the economic situation of our country.”

He appealed to the government to intensify its efforts in improving the living standards of the people, and urged the rich to help create jobs.

The Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr Idiat Adebule, commended those regularly involved in the wealth redistribution programme, noting that zakat remained one of the ways of alleviating poverty in the country, promoting economic equality and spreading love among the people.

Adebule, who was represented at the forum by the Lagos State Chairperson, College of Nigeria Pathologists, Prof. Fatimah AbdulKareem, said, “When we take from the wealthy to distribute to the appropriate beneficiaries, there is constant circulation of wealth such that it is not concentrated in the hands of a few.”

The Lagos State Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dr Abdullateef Abdulhakeem, urged government to give legal backing to zakat.

He said, “Charity will do a lot to alleviate poverty in the society. Zakat is something that even the government should give legal backing to. It will be a form of public private partnership that will assist the government to get funds for the purpose of alleviating poverty.”

The Chairman on the occasion and immediate past Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Prof. Bello Rahmon, advised that investments should be focused towards the health needs of Nigeria, adding, “We must continue to consider the possibility of setting up institutions that can assist with unemployment and health challenges. We need to set up clinics that attend to prevalent ailments in our society.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]