TASUED produces 23 First Class graduates, 2,743 others
Tunji Bosun, Abeokuta

The Vice-Chancellor, Tai Solarin University of Education, Ijagun-Ijebu, Ogun State, Prof. Abayomi Arigbabu, has said that a total of 23 First Class graduands and 2,740 others have graduated from the institution.

The VC stated this on Monday at a briefing held to announce the 10th Convocation Ceremony of the institution.

Arigbabu also disclosed that the 2,763 graduates included 79 postgraduate diploma and 177 masters graduates. “We would have 648 graduates from the College of Social and Management Sciences, 425 from the college of Humanities and 367 from the College of Specialised Education. Others include 514 from the College of Science and Information and Technology, as well as 513 graduates from the college of Vocational Technology Education.”

Arigbabu also said that as part of activities marking the convocation, the Registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, Prof.Ishaq Oloyede, had been invited to deliver the convocation lecture on From whom much is expected,enough should be given: a case for teachers in Nigeria.

He said, “The advantages of specialisation is that most of the problems in Nigeria will be solved if we get education right. Of the 166 universities in Nigeria, about half of them don’t have faculties of education, including private universities. The Federal Government should have established specialised universities of education. We should have at least one in each of the six geo-political zones in the country.”

Lauding the effort of the school’s staff in producing well rounded teachers, Arigbabu added, “Our products are testimonies of the structure of our programmes. They are knowledgeable in pedagogy. TASUED is fulfilling the mandate for which it was set up. They all finished with a certification in vocational studies. This will help them create jobs for themselves and supplement the teaching jobs they may get.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]