IDP tech will eradicate examination malpractice – WAEC
Ada Wodu, Calabar

The West African Examinations Council has introduced a new technological solution, known as the Item Differential Profile, to eradicate examination malpractice.

This was announced on Thursday at the 56th Annual General Meeting of the Nigeria National Committee of WAEC, held in Calabar, Cross River State.

Speaking during the formal opening of the AGM, the committee chairman, Dr Lami Amodu, said the new technology had enabled WAEC to achieve 100 per cent migration from paper-based to electronic-based enrolment.

She said, “Nigeria National Office, in particular, has adopted Information and Communication Technology to improve its service delivery. These, among others, include the online registration of both school and private candidates for WASSCE. This development has enabled the council to achieve 100 per cent migration from paper -based to electronic-based enrolment for candidates. It has also aided the deployment of Quick Response Code on our certificates, thereby making it impossible to falsify certificates issued by the council.”

The AGM also saw the best three candidates in the 2017 West African Senior School Certificate Examination for school candidates in Nigeria, Isabelle Irabor, Favour Etuonuma and Adenike Adedara, bag the National Distinction Awards along with cash prizes.

Assurance Community Secondary School, Obubra; Hillcrest College, Calabar; and Federal Science College, Ogoja; all in Cross River, each received the Endowment Book Fund Prize valued at $5, 000, for topping the list of best schools during the 2017 WASSCE.

On the awards, Amodu said they were based on academic excellence and the absence of any form of examination malpractice.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]