FG introduces education counselling policy in schools
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Federal Government on Thursday, introduced and distributed a National Policy on Counselling to be implemented in primary and secondary schools across the country.

The Minister of Education, Mr AdamuAdamu, introduced the policy in Abuja, where he noted that the distribution of the policy document was necessary because “for about 60 years, counselling services were being carried out in schools without authorised policies.”

The minister said the absence of a counselling policy had resulted in the lack of a well-defined structure for delivering counselling services, poor communication among practitioners and stakeholders, as well as the absence of synergy among professionals.

Our correspondent learnt that the counselling policy was aimed at solving problems relating to the rise in truancy among pupils, poor performance, cultism, examination malpractice, drug abuse, sexual harassment and general decline in parental care.

Adamu said, “Educational counselling entails the provision of academic, personal, developmental and therapeutic support to all pupils in order to promote their overall growth and eventual success in life. This is more crucial to those with development difficulties. It has given room for inefficiency and ineffectiveness in the delivery of counselling services.

“The lack of well-articulated and consistent counselling practice in primary and secondary schools had contributed to the number of out-of-school children, reduction in completion rate and increase in the rate of anti-social behaviour. This is militating against the development of children into responsible members of the society. The implementation guidelines and the policy are designed to enhance counselling delivery and focus on rise in truancy, poor performance, cultism, examination malpractice, drug abuse, sexual harassment and general decline in parental care.”

On her part, the Director, Education Support Service, Mrs Justina Ibe, said the development of the policy by the government was to have proper counselling service delivery in schools and among professional counselling practitioners in the country.

She said, “For education to be complete, the individual beneficiary must have a good sense of self-understanding of his or her aptitudes, interest, the impact of the environment of his or her choices and expectations in attaining life goals.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]