US advocates greater investment in girl-child education
Tare Youdeowei

The United States Consul-General, John Bray, has called for increased investment in the education of the girl-child in Nigeria.

Speaking on the theme, Unstoppable You: Reinvent and reinvigorate, during the 17th Annual Conference of Women in Management, Business and Public Service, held in Lagos last Friday, Bray also encouraged the women leaders to continue to work towards promoting gender equality in the country.

He said, “Nigeria cannot achieve its dreams of a prosperous and inclusive society without reinventing its approach to how it is treating the overwhelming majority of women and girls that live here. It may be up to you to change the tenor of the national discourse and prod Nigeria to place education and health, as well as the status of women and girls, higher on the national agenda.

“If Nigeria invested properly in the education of women and girls, how many more Amina Mohammeds would represent this country on the world stage? If more women and girls are given equal opportunities, how many more Chimamanda Ngozi Adichies will be able to tell stories that enthrall the world?” Bray asked.

Noting that removing the barriers to women’s full economic participation is key to an inclusive and prosperous country, the consul-general challenged the participants to press for greater involvement by women in the nation’s politics.

He said the current political order in Nigeria hardly offered enough opportunities for women.

Stressing that low female participation in politics must change if issues of concern to women were to rise in prominence and draw the interest and resources that they deserve, Bray added, “WIMBIZ and various Nigerian women’s organisations can help Nigeria decide the course of its future and chart a course that will lead to a more democratic and prosperous nation. You can start by working to ensure that the 2019 elections are free, fair, credible, and peaceful. That would be a great start.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]