‘Continuous investment in education will boost pupils’ creativity’
Tare Youdeowei

The Chairman, Chevron Nigeria, Mr Jeff Ewing, has said that only an enduring investment in education that enables pupils to think outside the box, move beyond boundaries and seek different ways to proffer solutions, will equip them for the future.

He said this during the grand finale of the 13th NNPC and Chevron National Art Competition For Secondary Schools held on Thursday at the MUSON Centre, Onikan, Lagos.

Speaking through the General Manager, Policy, Government and Public Affairs, of Chevron, Mr Esimaje Brikinn, Ewing noted that the creative arts promote creativity in children and would equip them in becoming problem solvers.

He said, “The competition is aimed at promoting creativity in Nigerian children by spurring their interests in the creative arts, as well as equipping them for the workplace and the future. For us, an enduring investment in education enables pupils to think outside the box, move beyond boundaries and seek different ways to proffer solutions. As such, the competition is aimed at improving the lives of our young stars. That is why we reward our champions with a full scholarship package to encourage them to keep excelling in their chosen academic fields. We believe this is one way to ensure a better society.

“A knowledge economy is a winning economy. Every nation needs creative minds to continually move forward and break boundaries. It is in this regard that this year’s edition of the competition was themed, ‘The Nigeria of my dream’ to stimulate the creative and problem-solving goldmine in our kid-artists. For our nation to move forward, we need the minds of our kids to be stretched to the point where they begin to undertake challenges,” Ewing said.

This was just as the Group General Manager, National Petroleum Investment Management Services, Mr Roland Ewubare, said the agency gave its support because the competition was also aimed at promoting patriotism in children.

Ewubare, who was represented by Mrs Olubunmi Lawson, said, “This joint venture is focused on unlocking the potentials of our youths and fostering creativity. Through this project, we have been able to promote patriotism in children from an early age. It is also a demonstration of our commitment to promoting and advancing quality education in Nigeria.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]