Experts call for review of universities curricula
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

Some human resource experts, acting under the aegis of People Expertise and Excellence Foundation, have called for a review of the curricula of tertiary institutions to make university graduates fit for the corporate world.

The experts, who spoke in Abuja, on Monday at a workshop by the non-governmental organisation, also advocated for 20 per cent annual budget for education by the federal and state governments.

In a communiqué obtained by our correspondent at the PEEF workshop with the theme, Education versus Reality: Bridging the Gap between the Education System and the Real World, the experts insisted that the government should pay attention to the poor funding of education and ameliorate it.

Speaking for the experts, the PEEF Executive Secretary, Dr Musa Rabiu, said, “The education system, as currently built and delivered, is focused on the award of certificates and not ensuring that the students thrive as adults. Learning is still largely theoretical and carried out using hypothetical abstract concepts and examples.

“The lecturers are mostly not subject matter practitioners in the real world of work. Skills and knowledge being passed down are not up to date, best suited, most relevant, and directly applicable in the real world. Thus, the students do not readily become productive as they graduate,” Rabiu said.

The communiqué also called for the establishment of a national council on skills management that would review universities curricula and synergise graduates with the work environment.

“The council will carry out accreditation of tertiary institutions curricula in line with the National Universities Commission and National Board for Technical Education guidelines,” the communiqué noted.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]