USAID unveils new education policy on investment
The United States Agency for International Development has released a new education policy to guide the agency’s investments in international education.

The new policy, the agency said in a statement on Thursday, would focus resources on programs that produce measurable learning outcomes for pupils.

According to the agency, “The new education policy highlights key areas in which USAID will strengthen its approach, apply new methods, and engage with new partners to ensure more children and youth, including girls, have the opportunities to learn and succeed. It emphasizes the imperative to provide education to children affected by crisis and conflict; recognizes the important role of non-state actors, including faith-based organizations and the private sector, in providing educational opportunities; and stresses the need to strengthen transparency, accountability, and the collection and use of data. It also underscores USAID’s commitment to ensuring girls have an equal opportunity to quality education.”

USAID further stated that the policy would focus on increasing access to quality education that is safe; ensuring children and youth gain quantifiable literacy; fostering skills needed to lead productive lives, gain employment, and contribute positively to society; and building the capacity of higher education institutions in developing countries to conduct and apply research, deliver quality education, and engage with communities.

It also added that the new policy would increase USAID’s engagement with faith-based and private-sector schools.

USAID added, “Well-educated populations are necessary for countries to lead their own future and make progress on their journey to self-reliance. However, 303 million children, adolescents, and youth between the ages of five to 17 – or one out of every five around the world – are out of school. More than 617 million children and adolescents do not have minimum proficiency in reading or math, regardless of whether or not they attend schools.

“Each year, USAID works with partners in approximately 50 countries to help children and youth gain access to the education and skills they need to be productive members of society. This work advances U.S. foreign policy goals, promotes U.S. and international security, and helps accelerate economic growth at home and abroad,” the statement read in part.

USAID’s new education policy supports the objectives of the U.S. Government Strategy on International Basic Education, the National Security Strategy, and the Department of State and USAID Joint Strategic Plan.

Source: www.usaid.gov

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]