Opeifa emerges Maltina Teacher of the Year
An English language teacher of Government Day Secondary School, Karu, Abuja, Mr Olasunkanmi Opeifa, has emerged as the 2018 Maltina Teacher of the Year, thereby taking home N1m every year for the next five years.

The award, which took place on Thursday, also earned his school a block of six classrooms as part of the Nigeria Breweries’ Education Trust Fund, which has impacted 25,000 pupils, built 400 classrooms, 30 libraries and laboratories in 40 communities across the country.

Stating that the award was aimed at kicking against the cliché that ‘a teacher’s reward is heaven’, the Managing Director of Nigerian Breweries Plc, Mr Jordi Bel, explained that, “In line with our philosophy of winning with Nigeria we are playing a more active role in the development of education in the country. The initiative is hinged on the realisation that teachers hardly get the recognition they deserve, in spite of the pivotal role they play in determining the quality of education and the future of our country. Hence, in 2015, our intervention in education was expanded to include teachers via the Maltina Teacher of the Year initiative.”

Bel noted that over the years the intervention had become an integral part of the company’s sustainability agenda, which covered primary, secondary and tertiary education.

Responding, Opeifa maintained that teaching was not about earning a living. He said, “Teaching is about having a strong passion for humanity and the emotional stability to impart knowledge regardless of the challenges. Today, I am very happy and proud that Nigerian Breweries has shown that teachers’ rewards are both in heaven and on earth.”

In his remarks, the Minister of State for Education, Prof Anthony Anwukah, said the story of educational development in Nigeria could not be complete without mentioning companies like Nigerian Breweries Plc. “You have been in the forefront of improving the educational sector by continually investing in educational infrastructure, encouraging teachers and pupils and the cycle as a whole. For this, we as a government are grateful because we cannot do it alone,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]