‘Faith-based varsities solution to ethnic, socio-economic disparities’
Tare Youdeowei

A professor of History, at the University of Texas, USA, ToyinFalola, has said that faith-based universities are the solution to ethnic and socio-economic disparities.

He made this know at the third convocation of McPherson University, at SerikiSotayo, Ogun State, where institution graduated 70 students, 19 of which bagged a first class degree.

Falola who was also conferred with a Doctor of Letters, Honoris Causa, said, “My focus is on why there is a need for faith-based institutions now, more than ever. “Religion based institutions allow for the freedom to practise and study freely without the threat of discrimination or harm; this is especially important for religious minorities.”

These institutions can help to foster strong community ties in regions where socio-economic and ethnic disparities are wide and run deep.

“They have contributed to the expansion of higher education, served as religious instruments of social change and impacted upon the areas where they are located in job creation, improvement of agriculture, education and health service. They have also contributed to finding solutions to Nigeria’s problems via research, formed new conversation on the linkage between higher education and the industries and government funding. With the help of these institutions, million of parents believe that their children will develop maturity, build self-esteem and develop good social networking skills,” Falola said.

He added that in view of the usefulness of faith-based universities, they should be given access to better funding, as well as connections with businesses and collaboration with universities in other countries to enhance graduate programme opportunities.

While speaking on the growth of the university the Vice-Chancellor, Prof AdeniyiAgunbiade, said “Today marks a memorable in the lives of the graduates and the this university. We have been able to sustain advancement. Our enrolment has increased from 42 students when we first started, now we are graduating 70 students.

“Due to the recent Nigeria Universities Commission’s visit, we have replaced our provisional licence with a full operational license.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]