‘Lack of soft skills makes youths unemployable’
Tare Youdeowei

The Chief Executive Officer, Kaiser Foundation, Mr Igbuan Okaisabor, has said that a lack of soft skills among Nigerian graduates was largely responsible for their in-employability.

He made this known on Wednesday, during a week-long soft skills training for final year students of the University of Lagos studying construction and related courses.

According to Okaisabor, soft skills are usually not acquired by students while in tertiary institutions even though that is what employers of labour look for in a graduate.

“Most Nigerian graduates today lack soft skills such as team spirit, self-confidence, communication skills and interpersonal relationship. We are talking about communication, presentation, leadership and team building skills, as these are what will ensure maximum output in the world of work.

“Construction requires teamwork, you cannot work alone and when job seekers lack such skills, it becomes difficult for them to integrate and deliver properly on their duties. It has become worrisome to discover that most young graduates seeking employment, can hardly write letters, just as they can hardly communicate seamlessly. That is why foreigners come into the country and take jobs, that otherwise should have been occupied by Nigerians because our graduates lack requisite soft skills,” Okaisabor said.

Speaking for UNILAG was the Dean, Faculty of Environmental Sciences, UNILAG, Prof Mike Adebamowo, who said the initiative was in tandem with the university’s vision of bridging the gap between the academia and the industry.

“This initiative by Kaiser Group is a step in the right direction. The time has come for us to train our students to be globally competitive. This soft skills training is very essential because beyond what the students are learning in the academic environment, it is important to always interface with the industry. The students we are training now are being packaged for the industry, to be able to be solution providers to the challenges we have in the society. We are insisting on soft skills because them, one becomes irrelevant, regardless of one’s academic achievements,” Adebamowo said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]