31 graduates bag first class in AAUA
Peter Dada, Akure

No fewer than 31 students of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, Ondo State, have graduated with first class out of the 5,252 students that are set to graduate from the institution.

The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Igbekele Ajibefun, disclosed this on Monday while speaking with journalists in Akure, the state’s capital, ahead of the forthcoming eighth convocation of the institution.

Giving the graduates’ statistics, the VC said, “Out of this number (5,252), 5,101 were conferred with first degrees, 39 would receive master’s degrees, 108 bagged postgraduate diplomas while four students earned Doctors of Philosophy.

“Out of this number, 31 students graduated with first class honours, 1,132 bagged Second Class Upper Division, 3,143 received Second Class Lower Division, 773 with Third Class while 22 had Pass Degree.”

Ajibefun, however, lamented that the university was facing financial challenges, as he commended stakeholders of the institution for their interventions towards the development of the university despite the harsh economic realities in the country.

He said, “We would like to put on record and deeply appreciate the intervention of the Federal Government Needs Assessment for executing different projects and the alumni of AAUA for commencing the construction of a student hostel. We would also like to appreciate the intervention of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund for constructing major buildings for the Faculty of Arts and Education, and Prophet T. B Joshua for donating N20m to the university for the procurement of a bus,” he stated.

He also stressed that the university would continue to sustain the integrity of its academic programme and excellence, in line with the vision handed over by its founding fathers some 19 years ago.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]