Don’t limit your dreams, Awosika tells pupils
Tare Youdeowei

Chairman of First Bank Plc, Mrs Ibukun Awosika, has told the pupils of Methodist Girls’ High School, Yaba, Lagos, that there are no limits to what they can achieve in their future careers.

Awosika said this while delivering the keynote address at the 35th anniversary of the 1978-1983 set of the school.

The event, held on the premises of the school on Monday and organised by its old pupils, had Awosika speak on the theme, ‘Girls Giving Back’.

She said, “Do not to limit your dreams because you are a girl. Endeavour to be the best at all times. There are many things that you can achieve as a girl-child. You can be whatever you want to be. The choice is yours to make. But you have to build a block at a time and grab any opportunity that comes your way. You have to discover yourself at this stage as self-discovery is very important the ability to know what you are good at will lead your path while growing.”

Also, speaking on career choices, Awosika added, “I have been a career woman and it didn’t stop me from getting married or having children. You can do the same, but you just have to stay focused. I have been married for 26 years and counting and I have not gotten to the peak of my career yet. Please do not allow anybody to limit your imagination. Don’t worry about where you are now, worry about where you are going.”

On her part, the OGMG 78-83 Chair Contact and Publicity Sub-committee, Mrs Moyo Ajijedidun, said, “We are giving back because we realise that at the end of the day, the things we will be remembered for are the things we did for other people. We believe there is no better place to start than by giving back to our alma mater. Our goal is to give back to the school and to give back to the girls.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]