UNILAG’s Nigeria-China institute will foster economic growth –VC
Tare Youdeowei

The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, has said that the institution’s newly established Institute of Nigeria-China Development Studies will foster mutual economic growth and serve as a think-tank for the Nigerian and Chinese governments.

He made this known during the formal inauguration of the institute at the university’s Senate Chamber last Tuesday.

Ogundipe also said the institute would create multiple avenues for the study of Chinese and Nigerian cultures and civilisations.

Ogundipe said, “The Confucius Institute UNILAG, Chinese Investors Association and the office of the V-C birthed the idea. This symposium is an indication that a lot can be done between both communities. The institute will create multiple avenues for the study of Chinese and Nigerian cultures and civilisations so that we can identify the weaknesses of both sides in order to find a platform for mutual growth.

“Today the relationship between Nigeria and China is significant. Both countries have economic and democratic advantages. We both have room to bloom economy-wise. The institute is to highlight the ways we can grow each other. The objective is to become a resource centre for Nigerian and Chinese businessmen willing to work together and strengthen mutual cooperation. Although it would not serve academic purposes, it would embark on research in natural, pure, applied and human sciences for developmental purposes.”

The President of the Chinese Investors Association for Development and Promotion, Mr Ronnie Changan, disclosed that the quest for professionals to guide members of the Chinese community on the need co-habit amicably had led them to UNILAG.

He said, “We need professionals to guide us on co-habiting amicably to make sure the country grows. It is to help us identify what businesses to do in Nigeria. We are grateful this dream has materialised today. The university is the right place to learn the proper things about Nigeria; where and how to relate with the country to grow each other. We are here to go beyond trading. We need Nigeria to teach us how to operate here properly and according to the culture of Nigerians.”

Also, the Cultural Counselor at the Chinese Embassy in Nigeria, Li Xuda, represented by the Chinese Director, Confucius Institute, UNILAG, Prof Wang Yongjing, was hopeful that the institute would serve as a platform for mutual learning and a win-win cooperation between both countries.

“I wish the institute would inject new vitality into Nigeria-China development studies, promote educational growth and development of cultural exchanges, strengthen traditional friendship and serve as a platform for mutual learning and win-win cooperation between both countries,” Xuda said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]