Group commends FUOYE over infrastructural development
Dayo Ojerinde

The Civil Society Groups for Good Governance has commended the infrastructural development going on at Federal University, Oye Ekiti, describing it as an act of patriotism and commitment to nation building.

This was disclosed in a statement made available to our correspondent by the President of CSGGG, Mr Dominic Ogakwu, who said that the coalition saw the need to commend FOUYE to set an example for other institutions to follow.

The coalition, which is a body for over for 186 civil society organisations, said, “Education is a tonic that liberates the mind, builds the nation and expands our scope in the developing society and this is visible in FUOYE.

“The current leadership of the institution has demonstrated a sense of patriotism and commitment to advancing public tertiary education as evident in the mass of infrastructure available in the face of a paucity of funds and economic recession.

“The projects are proof of the school management’s resilience and determination to position the institution as a conducive environment for learning. We are confident that graduates of FUOYE will make a tremendous impact in our society once out of school,” Ogakwu said.

He, therefore, called on all stakeholders to co-operate with the vice-chancellor to enable him to deliver on the strategic agenda while supporting the vision of the Federal Government in revamping public universities in Nigeria.

“In a space of three years the laboratory science building, social science 500 capacity multipurpose lecture theatre, Jupeb classroom, faculty of engineering classroom at Ikole campus, main entrance road at Ikole campus, engineering workshop, assessment classroom, pig stye, poultry pen, foundry house and maintenance office have all been completed and in use.

“Other major projects that will position the school for excellence and serenade the minds of students like the Faculty of Pharmacy building, twin lecture theatre for pharmacy students, Faculty of Basic Medical Science building, Faculty of Management Science, twin lecture theatre for management science, Faculty of Agriculture Ikole, Greenhouse at Ikole campus, engineering lecture theatre, academic building and the central library are ongoing and almost completed,” the statement read in part.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]