Don urges FG to create information platforms for farmers
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

A professor of Agricultural Production Economics at the Obafemi Awolowo University, in Ile Ife, Osun State, Adeolu Ayanwale, has called on the government to create platforms for information dissemination to farmers in order to expose them to best agricultural practices and boost production.

Ayanwale made this known while delivering the university’s 327th inaugural lecture titled, ‘Produce, innovate or be poor,’ where he said that information platforms would avail farmers the opportunity to know the market prices of their products and get training on increasing yields.

He said, “Given the all-important role of information in profitable decision making, it is recommended that an information dissemination platform for farming communities in vital agricultural issues be established. Such platforms will provide real-time online information on market prices, weather and climate changes, plant and animal diseases watch, that are locally relevant and useful.”

Ayanfalu added that government at all levels needed to provide an enabling macro and microenvironment, such as access roads, appropriate mechanisation and single digit interest rate on agricultural loans, for profitable farm production.

To tackle the problem of post-harvest losses, the don urged the government to provide storage facilities all over the country and make facilities affordable to encourage farmers to store their produce during harvest.

He stated that the recommendations were apt since agriculture, as it was being practised, was largely inefficient and lacked the potential to lift farmers out of poverty, as such, there was an increasing rate of poverty among many farming households in the country despite various programmes.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]