Agriculturist urges varsities, researchers to focus on local plants
Femi Makinde

A livestock farmer, Chief Folorunsho Ogunnaike, has urged Nigerian universities and researchers to focus on how to use locally available plants and herbs to increase livestock production.

Ogunnaike said this while delivering the guest lecture at the Department of Animal Science and Fisheries Management of the Bowen University, Iwo in Osun State.

Ogunnaike, who is the Chief Executive Officer of Hope Farms Nigeria Limited, said that Nigeria did no need to rely solely on imported technology and ideas.

Arguing that nature had blessed the country with so many plants and herbs that were very useful to humans, he said, “Researchers need to intensify efforts on our local vegetation, plants and herbs. The numerous plants, vegetation and herbs are created for a purpose by God.

“Protein, vitamins and minerals can be sourced from some plants and herbs. Many nations in the world take to herbal products (vitamins) to raise animals and they are result orientated.

“We need not to depend on everything foreign, borrowed and bought technology. We have available local raw materials that can replace imported livestock inputs. Unfortunately, we have failed to work on many locally available seeds, fruits and vegetation.”

He advised fresh agriculturists to know that the race to success started after graduation from school, saying they needed to work hard and practise what they learnt in school.

He said agriculture was a lucrative venture that could take them from poverty to wealth, but he stressed that it required hard work and dedication.

The Acting Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture, Bowen University, Dr Foluke Aderemi, called on students of the faculty and other interested youths to embrace livestock, saying it was a sure way of escaping from unemployment.

The Acting Head, Department of Animal Science and Fisheries Management, Dr Tunde Lawal, also urged Nigerian youths to take agriculture seriously, saying it was a lucrative venture but they needed to be dedicated to it.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]