OAU wins 2018 Ethics Challenge
Chux Ohai

The Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, has won the national finals of the 2018 Ethics Challenge of the CFA Society Nigeria, sponsored by First Bank of Nigeria Limited.

OAU emerged winner ahead of the University of Lagos and the University of Nigeria, both of which came second and third, respectively.

Speaking during the Gala Night and 2018 Charter Award Dinner of the CFA Society Nigeria where the winner of the competition that involved 15 universities was announced, President of the society, Banji Fehintola, commended First Bank for supporting the contest and for its unwavering commitment in ensuring entrenchment of ethics in the finance and investment sectors.

Fehintola said “Ethics is important. It is the cornerstone of our industry. We wanted to pass this message on three years ago. So we started running the ethics challenge for university students. We started with two; had seven last year and 15 universities this year. The competition ran in Lagos and Abuja. All the credit goes to First Bank, our sponsors, for increasing the scope of the contest to promote ethics amongst Nigerians.”

The Faculty Adviser of the OAU Presentation Team, Lawal Quadri, expressed happiness for winning the contest.

He said, “We feel very excited, mainly because we were here last year but came second. We had to put additional effort in order not to let our school down. We are very grateful to CFA Society as well as FirstBank. FirstBank is an excellent host; they took care of us, and I think other organisations should emulate the bank in promoting ethics and bringing out the best in students.”

The three universities had earlier emerged as finalists at the national finals of the CFA Ethics Challenge held in Lagos.

Four universities initially qualified from a regional preliminary held in Lagos while two had emerged from the Abuja elimination round.

While the University of Lagos, Babcock University, University of Benin and Obafemi Awolowo University qualified from the preliminary round in Lagos, UNN and the University of Ilorin emerged from the first round in Abuja. The six universities contested in the national final.

Bowen University, Covenant University, Ekiti State University, Mountain Top University, University of Calabar, University of Ibadan, University of Abuja, University of Maiduguri, and Madonna University were the other participants in the event aimed at promoting the highest standards of ethics, education, and professional excellence in the financial and investment sector.

Members of the team from the winning university will get scholarships for the CFA Level One examination.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]