Decay in CoEs detrimental to qualitative teacher education —COEASU
Tare Youdeowei

Lecturers of federal and state colleges of education, under the auspices of the Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union, have decried the level of decay in CoEs which they said was detrimental to qualitative teacher education.

COEASU, in a statement signed by its General Secretary and South-West Zonal Coordinator, Mr Taiwo Olayanju, accused the government of “neglect, poor funding and breached agreements” as it made public its grievances in a press statement.

Olayanju said, “The federal and state governments have left festering issues unaddressed in spite of our patriotic zeal for industrial peace and diplomatic unionism over time. Notice for the ongoing strike was issued on November 15, 2017, but the strike did not commence until September 27, 2018, when all alternative measures proved futile. Therefore, we the COEASU in the South-West Zone, comprising CoEs in Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Ondo, Osun, Ekiti and Kwara states, protest the painful neglect, poor funding, breached agreements and miscarriage of justice within the CoEs.”

Calling on governments to urgently arrest threats to the efficient running of the CoE system, COEASU demanded the renegotiation of the FG and COEASU 2010 agreement, amongst other things.

“In response to our agitation for an infrastructural turn around of CoEs, the FG conducted needs assessment across public COEs in 2014. Unfortunately, while funds have been released for partial implementation of the reports of the Presidential Needs Assessment Exercise in Universities, not a dime has been provided to implement the reports in CoEs, leaving issues of wanton decay in infrastructure, managerial and structural challenges unaddressed to the detriment of qualitative teacher education in Nigeria,” the statement said.

On autonomy to award degree in education, the union demanded a dual mode which granted CoEs the right to award both NCE and degree in Teacher Education, to “divest the system from the persisting exploitative affiliation mode.”

This was just as they called for the implementation of the migration to CONTISS 15.

“Following the approval by the President in 2009, the consequential movement of lower cadre for comprehensiveness has remained a festering issue left unaddressed in the CoEs whereas the same has been discriminatorily done in favour of other tertiary institutions. Equity and justice dictate that the migration of lower cadres be approved and implemented in CoEs accordingly,” the group added.

COEASU also condemned what it described as government’s abdication of responsibility to fund colleges. “Oyo, Osun and Ekiti states have shown highly condemnable apathy to the plight of their colleges of education, leaving the institutions on a precarious footing that demands emergency attention. We condemn the culture of fractional salary, mutilated salary and outright non-payment of salary. Oyo is owing 12-17 months, Ogun is owing 11 months, Osun is owing 30 months half salaries, Ekiti is owing seven months, Kwara, Abia, Kogi and Benue, to mention but few.

“We strongly find unacceptable the position of some state governments to the plight of their CoEs, such as Enugu and Kaduna where the 65 years retirement age is yet to be implemented. We also call for the unconditional reinstatement of all union leaders and members that were unduly disengaged or suspended in Osun and Ogun states, like Tai Solarin College of Education, Omu-Ijebu. State governments should honour existing agreements freely signed with the union and embrace a culture of collective bargaining and mutual respect, void of intimidation and unlawful measures, in handling industrial disputes,” the union submitted.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]