Has in stock or has in store? Fairing well or faring well?
Some words seem so harmless that you won’t imagine that they can later give you trouble in some other situations. Consider fair and fare. Even many children know that when you say something is fair, it suggests that it is not bad – even if it is not very good. That is why when you score five out of the 10 marks obtainable in a test, the teacher comments, Fair. And when you say the weather is fair, you simply mean it is okay, say, for one to go out.

The phrase, transport fare, is also almost as popular as feeding allowance. So, everyone knows what it means. But the same words can become thorny when you need to know how well a person is doing. You want to ask, Is he … well? If you are not dead sure, you ask yourself whether the correct expression is fairing well or faring well. Then a problem arises if you don’t readily have access to a dictionary or you are not in a place you can consult one. The situation is even worse when you don’t know or you don’t care whether or not it should be fair or fare. As far as you are concerned, fair is fare and fare is fair – or even fear! In other words, some people can even ask: Are you fearing well?

If you are so unlucky, in the same essay or report, you may encounter the otherwise gentle stock and store. Yes, stock can mean the entirety of goods or the amount of a particular type of goods available – just as its meaning is not shrouded at all in stock fish, where it is now performing the function of an adjective, answering the question, Which fish or What type of fish – fresh, dried, croaker or agbodo? But just watch the same harmless words turn hostile when you want to write idiomatically in, This government has nothing in … for the youth. Nothing in store or nothing in stock?

Between pitch and pit

The third example we shall treat can be a bit trickier because it has two variants. First, the words involved are pitch and pit. As usual, they ordinarily spark no hate when used individually and in general situations. A pitch can be a field while a pit can be a dangerous hole anyone should be careful around – like a pit toilet. What happens, however, in pit or pitch your tent with someone and pitch or pit a party against the other?

If you are among those who have no problem handling any of the idioms in the three situations above, kindly accept my Congratulations! We can put the problematic phrasal verbs/ idioms in perspective via the following questions that I want you to attempt:

Chief Gideon wants to know how his daughter is … in school. (fairing/faring)

Let me know what you have in … for me before visiting you in Ghana. (store/stock)

Honourable Dogara has … his tent with PDP. (pitched/ pitted)

So, what are your answers?

Fair and fare

The meaning of fair, in terms of not being bad, may tempt one to say someone is fairing well. But this is a blunder that many people commit as fare is the right word. To fare well or fare better means to be successful or do well. That is why we also have to fare badly, meaning to be unsuccessful:

Has the economy faired well in this administration? (Wrong)

Has the economy fared well in this administration? (Correct)

Between stock and store

When you refer to the plans and provisions that someone or an organisation has for another entity, the right expression is has in store – like in reserve, bank etc.

The managing director said the company had a lot in stock for the workers. (Wrong)

The managing director said the company had a lot in store for the workers. (Correct)

To pitch or pit tent?

As I noted earlier, each of the two words functions in separate idioms; but they are not interchangeable. To pitch tent or pitch camp can mean doing so for a short time. So, you have:

They pitched camp for the night near the river.

When you also want to indicate that a person has joined forces with another, you can say he has pitched his tent with him or her. You can also pitch for a contract, meaning to bid for it. But you can cause a misunderstanding or even a war between two people if you pit them against each other:

The love the player had for Wenger made him pitch his tent with Arsenal for three years. (Correct)

It is not good to pitch one party against the other. (Wrong)

It is not good to pit one party against the other. (Correct)

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]