State of emergency: Experts urge FG to implement policies
Tare Youdeowei

The National Economic Council, Last Monday, said that come November 2018, the education sector would be in a state of emergency, during which it would focus on revamping the basic education sector.

It added that due to declining standards of education delivery, the NEC, among other things would focus on strengthening Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics education. The body also stated that it would promote ICT at the basic education level.

In the wake of this, experts in the education sector have said that the state of emergency would only be laudable if the Federal Government goes beyond formulating policies to implementing them. They also said that unless educationists and pupils are involved in the policy-making, the revamp of the sector would be counter-productive.

According to a former Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Management Services, University of Lagos, Prof Duro Oni, having persons who are not educationists ends up creating problems for the sector. “Even though the state of emergency is a welcomed gesture, what you get in Nigeria is that people who do not know much about education are pontificating about it, and it is problematic. When you want to have an education summit, you must call all the stakeholders, in primary, secondary and tertiary level, as well as federal, state and local government, together they should map out a course of action that would be meaningful.”

He further lamented the lack of implementation of policies, where policymakers keep saying what has been heard before.

Also, a retired professor of Chemical Engineering, Ogbemi Omatete, implored government not to set aside arts, history and cultural studies in its bid to make the curriculum and Nigerian pupils ready for the jet age.

Omatete said that since research and innovation would only be useful when adequately communicated there was a need to greatly improve basic literacy in the country.

He said, “Communication is not being emphasised enough. Many people, even after completing secondary school and even university cannot even speak or write properly in English. We acknowledge that English is a second language, but people should be able to write and speak it clearly. No matter how intelligent one is and what good ideas they have, if they are not able to communicate it, it is of no use. Proper and adequate communication should be emphasised in our educational system,” Omatese said.

The NEC, while detailing what the state of emergency would tackle, also said that states would be made to spend 15 per cent of their budget on education.

To this Omatete said that it was not enough to make states spend 15 per cent of their budgetary allocation on education and that the FG should ensure that leaders were well equipped to manage funds well.

The NEC also said it was working on a far-reaching skills-based curriculum that would focus on science, technology, education, arts and mathematics.

To this, the Proprietor Stokhan School, Lagos, Mr Shinnayomi Akintolure, insisted that only persons actively affected by the curriculum should be involved in drawing up the new one.

He said, “In the planning of the curriculum of the education sector, stakeholders in the sector are the ones that should drive the process. For one to plan a good curriculum, it is a concern of all stakeholders; the primary and secondary school pupils, the university students, the teachers in all levels of education, authors of textbooks, employers of labour, university professors and college of education lecturers, must all be involved before you can plan a good curriculum for education in Nigeria.”

“The thing about those in power is that they are guided by selfish interest. They are the ones that are supposed to put the round pegs in a round hole. If there must be a state of emergency in the sector, it must start from the top. Right now you have a minister of education who is not an educationist when you have a lot of professors of education in the country. To make things right, we need to have the right people design our curriculum. That’s where the state of emergency should start,” Akintolure suggested.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]