Ondo spent N2bn on 175 primary schools – Akeredolu
Peter Dada, Akure

The Ondo State Government has said it spent N2bn on the renovation and construction of 175 primary schools in the Central Senatorial District of the state.

This was made public by Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, during a town hall meeting on the preparedness of 2019 budget with stakeholders in the district.

Organised by the Ondo State Ministry of Economic Planning and Budget, the governor used the platform to say that the renovation and construction touched Akure South, Akure North, Ifedore, Idanre, Ondo East and Ondo West Local Government Areas.

Represented by the state Commissioner for Finance, Mr Wale Akinterunwa, the governor explained that the primary school project was part of the 318 projects worth over N28bn awarded in the senatorial district in the 2018 budgetary provision between January and September.

He said, “The N2bn spent was meant for the renovation and construction of 175 schools through the state Universal Basic Education Board.”

Akeredolu added that the stakeholders’ meeting became necessary so as to harvest the inputs of the people with a view to including them in the state’s 2019 budgetary process.

“This will translate the developmental plans of government into actionable programmes and strategies, as well as increased democratisation, citizen participation and the desire to respond to developmental challenges,” he said.

Commending the state government, a traditional ruler the Alara of Ilara-Mokin town, Oba Abiodun Adefehinti, said it was good to get the citizens involved in budgetary provisions so as to guard against the implementation of projects that would not serve the well-being of the citizens.

The monarch urged the state government to carry along traditional rulers in policy formulation and programming so that their subjects could be mobilised to support the government.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]