‘Pupils need knowledge of economy to survive’
Tare Youdeowei

The President Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr Babatunde Ruwase, has said that primary and secondary school pupils need to have a knowledge of economic issues so as to be able to navigate them and achieve success while developing the nation.

He made this known through an LCCI council member, Mrs Sarah Sosan, at the 2018 LCCI Secondary School Essay Competition and Prize Giving Day event held last Friday at the Commerce House, Victoria Island, Lagos.

According to Ruwase, the need to educate pupils on economic issues gave birth to the competition and this year’s theme, The Role of Entrepreneurship in National Development.

He said, “The competition, which is the third in the series, is geared towards developing the capacity of the average Nigerian child to understand the country’s economic issues, interrogate the intellectual and entrepreneurial instinct inherent in the pupils and enhance their contributions to the development of the nation.

The competition, which saw 29 schools compete, had the Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Dr Idiat Adebule, state that education was being redefined to produce entrepreneurs, not job seekers.

She said, “I appreciate LCCI for sustaining this yearly initiative to provide a platform for pupils of public and private schools in the state to display their intellectual and entrepreneurial skills inherent in them through essay writing. There is no doubt that this initiative has been helping to improve the capacity of the average Nigerian child in understanding economic issues in order to contribute to the growth and development of the nation.

Lauding LCCI for its effort was the Head of Commercial, Lagos and Southern Nigeria, UniFoam Group, Ms Udochi Ajuzie-Nwani, whose company was one of the sponsors of the competition.

She said, “UniFoam Group is proud to be part of this laudable initiative. We maintain a strong stance in supporting and encouraging early involvement of the younger minds in entrepreneurship which we have displayed by rewarding these young stars who have displayed uncommon knowledge.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]