HCCOGA donates Math laboratory to alma mater
Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe

The 1979 set of Holy Child College Old Girls’ Association has donated a Mathematics laboratory to enhance the practical teaching of the subject in the school.

The former pupils said they donated the laboratory to mark the 40th anniversary of the school.

At the handover ceremony, the Leader of the Planning Committee, Mrs Nike Aworinde, said she was confident that the laboratory would go a long way to strengthen the performance of pupils who were deficient in Mathematics.

Aworinde, while appealing to the teachers and pupils to handle the equipment properly said, “Holy child was very good to all of us and that made us what we are today. We told the school we wanted to do something and the school administrator asked if we could donate a Mathematics clinic or laboratory to help people who are poor in the subject. So, we decided to donate to mark our 40th anniversary. We also donated furniture, 30 tablets, TV sets and ACs which have been in use.”

On her part, the School Administrator, Sister Antoinette Opara, commended the old girls for donating the laboratory to the school.

She said, “It is with a heart of joy and gratitude that I say thank you on behalf of the pupils and staff, especially the Mathematics teacher, for making this dream come through. When the teacher told me what it cost to build a lab, I told him that God would provide. So when the 1979 set came to ask what they could do for the school, I jumped with joy and pleaded with them to build a Mathematics lab for us. The pupils are very excited to use this place and we are already feeling the impact of the laboratory on them. The fear of mathematics is gone in the school,” Opara submitted.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]