Group seeks national peace through cultural studies
Oluwatobi Akindele

A multi-cultural and integrated service providing company, Ajidans Studios Production, has expressed its desire to promote national peace through cultural studies in schools.

This was made known by the Assistant Director of the organisation, Oluwafemi Adeniyi, at the 2018 annual Ajifest Cultural Festival held in collaboration with Flomic Private School.

Stating that socio-cultural and economic development could also be achieved through a synergy between culture and civilisation, Adeniyi said that the event themed, Igniting culture with civilisation was aimed at reinstating the spirit of tolerance and coexistence among Nigerians, by celebrating the uniqueness in various ethnical multiculturalism.

He said, “Culture is the cornerstone for development. We should be able to teach our children or in a few years we will not be able to trace our culture at all. Celebrating the uniqueness in ethnical multiculturalism informs us to look inwards to the concepts of values, beliefs, principles and ethics embedded in different cultures to form a synergy between culture and civilisation to foster national peace, socio-cultural and economic development in Africa.”

On her part, the Head Teacher, Flomic Private School, Mrs Olasope, encouraged teachers to help pupils to excel in their studies by teaching them in their native languages.

“Igniting culture with civilisation has helped to put an end to some barbaric cultures of the past, but it is a pity that our native language has been tagged vernacular. We need to go back to the roots. We should go back and teach our children culture.

“Teachers ought to understand the language of the immediate environment. So that, if the children do not understand in the English language they can be explained to in the native language,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]