Grange School turns 60, to establish football academy
Tare Youdeowei

Grange School, Ikeja, Lagos, has unveiled its 60th-anniversary logo which marked the beginning of a series of events that would include establishing a football academy.

The unveiling, which was done by the Vice President of Nigeria, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, at the school’s premises, saw him speak on the topic, Academic excellence as a tool for nation building.

Speaking on what the school had in store for its anniversary, the Headmaster of Grange School, Mr Guy Cassarchis, said that activities would span from November 2018 to July 2019, with events taking place each month.

His words, “The unveiling is the beginning of a series of events highlighting our contributions to the education sector. We understand the need for a well-rounded pupil, hence the series of events. We would host Day Waterman College for girls and boys football, basketball, table tennis and swimming competitions.

“There will also be a fundraiser to build a block of modern technology-enabled classrooms and establish a football academy in collaboration with Team Nigeria, where premier league scouts can source talent. There would also be debates, a reward ceremony for staff, mothers’ afternoon tea, dads and sons football match, mother and daughter basketball game, to mention a few,” Cassarchis submitted.

Lauding the school’s contribution to teacher training, especially in the conflict areas, the VP said, “I must say that I am proud of the way that Grange has enthusiastically collaborated with my office in the work we are doing at the learning centre in Maiduguri where we have free boarding for children who are victims of the conflict in the Northeast. It is a facility that will take about 1,200 children and there we have all kinds of facilities that we hope will be useful in their education. Grange has also been committed to working with us on teacher training, especially in the conflict areas, which is an important part of our work in Maiduguri.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]