FG urged on sponsorship scheme for private varsity students
Olufemi Atoyebi, Ibadan

The Vice-Chancellor of Lead City University, Prof Aderemi Adeyemo, has urged the Federal Government to begin a scholarship scheme for students of private universities in Nigeria.

Adeyemo said this during the second international conference of the institution’s Faculty of Basic Medical and Applied Sciences on Monday.

At the event, the Minister of Health, Prof Isaac Adewole, who was represented by a member of the Governing Council of the University of Ibadan, Prof Akinola Alada, delivered a keynote address, which was themed, ‘Transformational research innovations/approaches for national health and technological advancement.’

The vice-chancellor noted that students of public universities were benefitting from the fund through infrastructural upgrade, which the Tertiary Education Trust Fund had been providing for their institutions.

Appealed to the Federal Government to extend such aid to the students in private schools through the scholarship scheme, he said, “TETFund was designed to favour public schools, but what the proprietors of private institutions are asking for is not too much. If the fund cannot be extended to private schools, government can develop a scholarship scheme to help students who are in private universities in Nigeria. This will extend to them the same favour that students in public schools are enjoying from TETFund.

“At Lead City, we are collaborating with some corporate bodies and an international agency, HUAWEI, on training of our staff and further technical education for our students in China.”

In his speech, Adewole said the future of research in university education in Nigeria depended on the contribution of private universities since the competition for space in public universities had become stiff.

He said, “Private universities are part of the way forward because there is hardly room in the public schools. Private universities are struggling because they are young today. A time will come when they will be able to stand firm and partner industries for structural development.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]