Tertiary institutions admitting half-baked secondary school leavers –Bellstech VC
Samuel Awoyinfa, Abeokuta

The Vice-chancellor of Bells University of Technology, Ota, Ogun State, Prof. Oludele Ojediran, has described many newly admitted students of tertiary institutions in the country as ill-prepared academically for higher education.

Ojediran said this in a meeting with journalists, ahead of the 10th convocation ceremony of the university scheduled to take place next weekend.

The vice-chancellor also said that the rot in the education sector was first noticed in public primary schools where there were dilapidated classrooms and ill-motivated teachers and later, it crept into public secondary schools.

Ojediran said the planned emergency in the education sector was long overdue due to the neglect it suffered over the years.

Accusing government at the federal and state levels of paying lip service to education, he said, “They have always wanted to reap where they did not sow. Declaring a state of emergency in Nigeria’s education sector is long overdue, because the Federal Government and the states have not invested sufficiently in education.

“Any investment made in education is an investment in the future of the nation. The states have neglected primary education, dilapidated strictures called classrooms are all over the place.

“Teachers are not motivated. So they bring things to sell in school. What kind of teaching will they impact on the pupils? This had gradually moved to public secondary schools and to the public tertiary institutions.

“The half-baked and ill-trained secondary leavers are unleashed on the tertiary institutions, which had to do rigorous work to prepare them academically by going back to the basics of the subjects.”

Speaking on current developments in Bellstech, Ojediran said that student enrolment had increased in the past few years and the institution was targeting about 800 new entrants for the new academic session.

On the convocation, he said the best graduating student was a female of the Department of biochemistry, who scored Cumulative Grade Point Average of 4.94.

He added that a total of 74 would be graduating in its post-graduate programme and 417 others would be graduating across the four colleges in the institution, namely, College of Natural and Applied Sciences, College of Management Sciences, College of Environmental Sciences and College of Engineering.

Ojediran said that 47 students of the university bagged first class degrees, 148 and 151 graduated in the second class upper and second class lower divisions, respectively, while 71 obtained third class degrees.

He said the convocation ceremony would be preceded by a drama presentation, exhibition and the convocation lecture to be delivered by a former Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Universities Commission, Prof. Julius Okojie, among other activities.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]