Union Bank, LASG, insist on improved investment in education
Education stakeholders, at the maiden edition of the annual Union Bank education fair, tagged Edu360, have called for improved investment in the education sector.

Held at Harbour Point, Victoria Island, Lagos, the fair served as a platform for collaboration among the education sector stakeholders with the goal of accelerating development and enhancing investment in the sector.

Speaking at the ceremony to mark the kick-off of the two-day event, the Chief Executive Officer of Union Bank, Mr Emeka Emuwa, said the bank’s focus was on education as a key driver of national development.

“We want Edu360 to be the leading education platform in Nigeria, bringing together various participants, actors and fostering collaboration among stakeholders in the education ecosystem, thereby bringing about the much-needed investment in this sector. We firmly believe that the private sector, working closely with the government and other stakeholders, can play a critical role in fast-tracking solutions to move the educational sector forward.

“At Union Bank, we are committed to identifying sectors that are vital to shaping a better, sustainable future for Nigerians. That is why the theme is ‘Investing in the Future.’ We are yesterday’s future, and the children are today’s future. As such we have to keep investing in today’s future and the future’s future. This is because the world is changing and we have to keep pace and keep investing in education,” Emuwa urged.

While delivering the keynote address, the Managing Director of The Education Partnership Centre, Dr Modupe Olateju-Adefeso, spoke extensively on the linkages between education and national development, drawing examples from the health sector.

She said, “The health sector is one of the sectors that is suffering greatly in this country and it is seen in the available statistics, the quality of our healthcare facilities, as well as the fact that there is a mass exodus from our healthcare sector to other countries. The reality is that training and education have a fundamental role to play in the development of a skilled health care workforce, and if we are not training our healthcare professionals appropriately, reducing the entry barriers for them, equipping them with the skills and technology they need to play in the 21st century, then there is no way we are going to improve as a nation.

“So, my perspective is that we need to strengthen the education and training that health care professionals receive in the country. As it is, Nigeria is subsidising countries like the United Kingdom and the United States. Today, there are about 4,700 Nigerian doctors working in the UK. This is interesting because Nigeria is a developing country, yet we are subsidising developed countries simply because we are training our doctors, but we are not completing their training, so, they are leaving Nigeria to complete their training and they are not coming back. Hence, we need a more enabling environment here, a curriculum that is 21st century compliant and we need to create an environment where Nigerian doctors know that if they stay in Nigeria they can be globally competitive,” Olateju-Adefeso added.

While applauding the bank for its commitment towards improving society through various initiatives, the Governor of Lagos State, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, represented by his Special Adviser on Education, Mr Obafela Bank-Olemoh, said the government was aware of the importance of education and of the gaps that exist in the education system.

He then proceeded to highlight how the state government and the bank were in sync as regards investing in the future of education. “As we look toward the future, we face the two-fold challenge of meeting the need for basic, quality education, while concurrently ensuring that we are not left behind. The World Bank recently jolted the world awake with the unveiling of the Human Capital Index. Importantly, it highlights the vital role of health and education in ensuring the future prosperity of a nation. With Nigeria’s population projected to grow to over 300 million by 2030, securing the nation’s future prosperity is a matter of urgency.

“Lagos has been deliberate about positioning the state’s residents for the new economy. With a current population of 24 million, growing exponentially every year, we recognize the need for heavy investment in our human capital. Our response was an employability and entrepreneurship program, Ready.Set.Work, which prepares final year students for immediate entry into the workforce as employees and employers of labour. There is also Code Lagos, an initiative to train one million Lagosians to code by 2019. Today, it is running in 648 schools and has trained over 100,000 participants. Our out-of-school program has recently expanded to 47 centres, including public libraries, community centres and religious organizations,” Bank-Olemoh submitted.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]