CBN, NERDC introduce financial literacy to secondary schools
Peter Dada, Akure

The Central Bank of Nigeria, in partnership with the Nigeria Education Research Development Council, has announced the introduction of a financial literacy programme into the curriculum of secondary schools in the country.

Speaking during a school mentoring programme held at the Victory College, Ikare-Akoko, Ondo State, the CBN Director, Consumer Protection Department, Mr. Kofo Abdulsalam-Alada, said the programme was designed to educate pupils on the importance of savings and investment.

Abdulsalam-Alada also noted that the programme was organised by the CBN for secondary school pupils in commemoration of the World Savings Day.

He said, “We are collaborating with the Nigeria Education Research Development Council to design a curriculum that will ensure that financial literacy is actually infused into subjects taught in secondary schools in Nigeria.

“A series of workshops and pilot testing of some of the designed programmes have been carried out in Lagos. Within the current school calendar year, infusion into the system should commence in subjects like accounting, economics and commerce in order to give the children knowledge about savings and other forms of investment. It is not when they get to the university that they should start learning about financial literacy.

“We have some graduates out there who are not financially literate. If you have a lot of money and you don’t how to manage it, you may experience a problem with spending. That is why the CBN decided to introduce this programme so as to catch these children young.”

The CBN boss urged the pupils to imbibe the habit of saving money in order to meet their future and emergency needs.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]