Matching grant will reduce population of out-of-school children — Ezekwesili
A former Minister of Education, Dr Oby Ezekwesili, shares her thoughts on how to reduce the number of out-of-school children in the country and how to tackle the challenges facing basic education in this interview with TARE YOUDEOWEI

What can be done to fix the basic education sector?

We have to understand that oil is a not good basis for us to build our economy. We have to make oil less important and consider disruptive strategies that put humans at the centre of our economic strategy. The productivity of the people and companies within an economy are the drivers of economic growth, and when the people are productive and competitive, it means that the quality of growth achieved is distributive as much as possible because everyone is participating in the process.

So, one of the major things for us is that investment in quality education and skills development is necessary to make the citizens of Nigeria world-class human capital. If we build human capital, combined with an environment that makes investment attractive, investors around the world would be interested in coming to Nigeria because of its top talents. Talents drive capital today. Knowledge drives capital. We need to stake a claim to that today in the global economy. We are incredibly endowed and are capable of achieving a lot especially with appropriate education. But we don’t bother. Our current political class don’t see citizens, they see barrels of oils.

I want to disrupt that way of thinking. Oil will only be complimentary. It won’t be at the centre of an economic strategy for me. We want to build a huge knowledge capital in Nigeria. We cannot afford to have 13.5 million children out of school. We have to change that.

We are aware that 60 per cent of the 13.5 million out-of-school children are girls. What kind of policy would you suggest to reduce that figure?

This situation of out-of-school children existed even when I was minister of education. At that time, the number was about 7.4 million, or thereabouts, and we took the number to 6.8 million within a short time. We had to do a number of things to tackle that problem. One key thing was that we had to use the Universal Basic Education Commission as a matching grant mechanism to support the commitment of state governments. The more the state governments placed the issue of basic education at the front burner of their vision and strategy, the more resources it attracted from the Federal Government to deal with its education budget.

Then we offered a lot of learning opportunities of how other countries have been able to get children into the classroom, despite all the barriers that make families not to send their children to school, especially the girl child.

So, you incentivise the families, especially in places like the North where you find that there is only one girl for every four boys in school. That’s a huge disparity. And the disparity also exists even among girls across the regions. For every five girls in school in the South, there is only one girl in school in the North. So there have to be policy measures to support families.

Making the school systems close enough to the home is one. Cultural and religious issues also have to be addressed. Other factors, such as employment of more female teachers, who parents can see as good examples for their daughters, helps.

Innovative classroom environments are also part of the solution. There is the out-of-the-school-block approach in regions where schools are located at long distances from the students. When we took some of these measures, the number of out-of-school school children within that period came down, showing that there was an impact being made by the measures adopted. If it was continued, the trend would have taken it down, but it wasn’t continued and the number went up.

When you were minister, the Federal Government did make a move to privatise unity schools and some Nigerians interpreted it as an attempt to sell the schools

It was not a sale of unity schools. The unity schools’ reform was to make public-private partnerships that were not profit-making. So, the old boys, the old girls and the parents-teachers associations were going to be given authority to run the unity schools with the same budget that the Ministry of Education was running it with and failing the children.

So, when you have that kind of a social enterprise or public-private partnership, it is not a sale. It’s not for profit, too. The school remains that of the government, but the only difference is that the management is now given over to those who care about the school more than bureaucrats who see the schools as opportunities for corruption.

I would so implement it joyfully. Because the standard of unity schools must go up as a model of what education should be like all over the country.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]