Nigerian varsities are short of teachers by 30% – Okebukola
Olufemi Atoyebi, Ibadan

A former Executive Secretary of the Nigeria Universities Commission, Prof Peter Okebukola, has said that one of the challenges facing the Nigerian university system is a 30 per cent shortage of teachers.

Okebukola said this while delivering a convocation lecture, themed ‘Private universities and the revitalisation of the Nigerian university system,’ at the AjayiCrowther University, Oyo in Oyo State.

Stressing that the university system had an annual growth rate of four per cent, while the teacher production rate was two per cent, he said the mismatch had given private universities an advantage over public universities and the latter were subsequently, for want of adequate financial support, forced to hire lecturers on part-time basis.

Okebukola also noted that established teachers in public universities often hesitated to accept full-time teaching jobs in private universities because of the uncertainty of job security, while teachers employed on full-time basis by private universities looked out for the opportunity to switch to public universities.

He said, “The Nigerian university system is about 30 per cent short of teachers. Federal universities are best served while private universities are least served. The typical private university has about 73 per cent of the teachers needed to deliver quality education. Private universities have on the average, about 35 per cent of full-time teachers.

“With regard to teachers, private universities are choked in a triple stranglehold of inadequate national stock of teachers from which to draw, inadequate of funds to support salary and emoluments of full-time staff.”

Okebukola said that while awaiting the realisation of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund intervention to private universities, the managers and owners of the institutions must be creative in order to boost enrolment.

“They can enter into a marketing consortium arrangement with a number of private and public universities in Nigeria to undertake road shows, exhibitions and fairs in choice locations and neighbouring West African countries,” he added.

While commending ACU for distinguishing itself within a short time of being established, Okebukola warned owners of private universities not to reduce education standard because of the challenges they faced.

The former NUC boss said that when former President Olusegun Obasanjo approved the issuance of private university licences, nobody had expected the poverty level in the country to rise.

“The good thing is that many of the universities, including ACU, have been able to contract reputable teachers. I advise that programmes that are not relevant to the nation’s employment market should be closed, while courses with more enrolment should be encouraged by the managers of private schools,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]