Ex-minister blames FG for rising population of out-of-school children
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

A former Minister of Education, Prof Fabian Osuji, has identified poor management of funds and failure on the part of the Federal Government to implement existing laws as the reasons why Nigeria has about 13.2m out-of-school children.

Osuji made this disclosure in Abuja during the 12th National Conference of The Academy of Management Nigeria on Wednesday. He said, “It is shameful that Nigeria still has 13 million children out of school after passing several laws on education reforms and failing to implement them.”

The conference, which brought together academics from the Faculty of Management Sciences of 153 tertiary institutions in Nigeria, was themed, ‘Leadership, security and national development.’

The former minister said, “It is a poor commentary that Nigeria has 13.2million children out of school. It is shameful. It is mismanagement of resources and mismanagement of opportunities. When I was a minister in 2004, we presented a bill to the National Assembly which was passed, making primary education free and compulsory throughout the federation. That was the law in the country. In other hands, children must go to school and parents did not have to pay.

“But in 2018, how come we are still talking about millions of children out of school and on the streets? That is a failure on the part of parents and on the part of government at all levels.

“The law has been forgotten. The Federal Government is now saying that there should be a state of emergency in the education sector because we have failed. This is the same government that had asked the parliament to pass this law in 2004 asking education to be free and compulsory for the first nine years of every Nigerian. There would be six years of primary and three years of junior secondary. As a nation, we have forgotten the laws we passed in 2004 and nobody is asking questions; our memories are short.

“Our problems are the problems of management and our failure is the failure of management. For us to be poor or to be counted as one of the poorest in the world means that Nigeria has not been able to manage its vast resources appropriately.”

The President of the Academy, Prof Ayuba Aminu, said the Federal Government still had challenges also in the security and economic sectors, noting that the academy could come up with a communiqué to suggest policies and recommendations to the government.

He said, “The major challenges facing our country today revolve around two issues; leadership and security. We talk of the coming 2019 elections and we see that leadership is critical to our country. Also on security, we have a nationwide threat to our national existence; we all witness the Boko Haram issue which we are yet to tackle. There are also the Niger Delta Avengers and other threats destroying our economy. It is in view of this that the academy conveyed this conference.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]