Building mega schools wasn’t a wise decision – Ondo SUBEB Chairman
Chairman of the Ondo State Universal Basic Education, Princess Oladunni Odu, speaks on the challenges facing public primary schools in this interview with PETER DADA

Nowadays many parents prefer to enroll their children in private schools. What do you think can be done to attract them to public schools?

This is one of the challenges facing education in the country. If you go out there, you will see that every house is being used as a private school. To be honest, I think that most of these schools are good. There is discipline in private schools because the proprietors are directly involved in the running of the schools. This is not the case in the government-owned schools. Neither inspectors nor representatives of the Ministry of Education pay regular visits to these schools either to supervise the teachers or find out how they are doing. Supervision is insufficient in public schools. It is only the principals that are committed to their jobs. This is the problem.

Is there a way the government can make teachers in public schools committed to their jobs?

What we are doing in Ondo State is to strengthen the inspection section of the ministry of education. We are thinking of appointing neighbourhood inspectors, who will be retired teachers. Their job will be to inspect the public schools and monitor the actions of both teachers and pupils. But this boils down to funding.

If you look around, you will find that many buildings in most primary schools in the state are in dire need of rehabilitation. Why are these schools neglected?

I don’t think that is true. No school has been neglected and no school will be neglected . We have more 1,000 primary schools in the state. There is no way we can cover all of them. What we are doing is to rebuild. If any school needs a building, we will build it. If it is to renovate the building, we renovate it. So far, we have built 337 schools across the 18 local government areas in the state.

It appears that the mega schools built by the Olusegun Mimiko administration have been abandoned by the present government. Why is this so?

A committee was set up by this administration to handle that matter. It recommended that these mega schools should be attached to tertiary institutions because they were not functioning. One of the mega schools built to accommodate 1,050 pupils has only 300 pupils. So the schools are under-utilised. I don’t think that establishing mega schools was a very wise decision on the part of the past administration. If we are talking about basic education, we are talking about neighbourhood schools for pupils. So why should we be thinking of something mega? Why design such a huge concept for basic education?

We don’t need that kind of structure. It can only be used for tertiary institutions. The present administration was wise enough to accept the committee’s recommendation that we do not need mega schools, especially when they are not functional.

Basic education is supposed to be free. Why is Ondo State collecting tuition fees from pupils?

I want to tell you that basic education is still free in this state, but, in our society people are always cutting corners. I know the ministry of education approved the payment of N800, which covers security, clinical and PTA levies, by primary school pupils, but it has come to our notice that some schools are demanding more money. That will not be tolerated, I assure you. There is a particular case in St. Patrick Primary School in Ondo. When we carried out an investigation we found out that the management of the school demanded N3,000 for uniform and N1,200 for cardigan, alongside other levies. The total sum amounted to N9,000. We had to put out a jingle on radio to warn parents to be wary of such charges. We told them not to pay this kind of money to the school because education was free and the state government did not ask for money from anybody.

It has been reported that the state lacks enough qualified teachers in the schools. Why is the government not recruiting teachers?

That is one of the challenges we are facing. The immediate past administration did not recruit teachers. The last time teachers were recruited in the state was 2008 when the late Dr Olusegun Agagu was at helm of affairs. We are short of teachers. We need about 8,000 teachers, but the problem is that we don’t have enough funds. For now, we are making use of N’power teachers. The Federal Government recently gave us 2,582 N’power teachers and 135 FTF teachers. We know that we need teachers and that is why we are trying to do something fast because without teachers we cannot impart knowledge in pupils. So, we are working on it and very soon, we should be able to recruit teachers into our schools.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]