‘Corps members posted to Osun schools are safe’
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Deputy Governor of Osun State, Mrs Titi-Laoye Tomori, has promised to provide adequate security for members of the National Youth Service corps posted to public secondary schools.

Tomori said the state government had beefed up security in schools by appointing special marshals to instill discipline in the pupils and to ensure the security of teachers and other workers.

The deputy governor said this in a meeting with journalists held on the sidelines of the swearing-in ceremony of the 2018 Batch ‘C’ corps members deployed in Osun State at the NYSC orientation camp in Ede on Thursday.

She said this while responding to a question put to concerning the security of corps members which a principal allegedly said was not guaranteed about a year ago.

Tomori said, “We have put in place what we called ‘Edu Marshal.’ They are solely in charge of security in all our schools and our schools are adjudged the most secured in southwestern part of Nigeria. Security in the state is excellent and in schools, it is perfect.”

The Commissioner for Empowerment and Youth Engagement, Mrs Folake Adegboyega, said corps members had been very useful in schools and hospitals, as well as in the development of the grassroots.

She said, “I want you to know that the NYSC scheme is the greatest thing that has ever happened to the Nigerian youth and to the country as a whole.

“Through the scheme, careers have been developed, destinies have been reborn, life-time relationships have been made and great entrepreneurs have been discovered.

“Also through the scheme, the government has been able to take development to the grassroots by providing qualified corps doctors, medical personnel, teachers, among others, for the people at the grassroots level. I enjoin you to be an embodiment of discipline, honesty and selflessness throughout the period of service year.”

She described the NYSC as the greatest thing that ever happened to Nigeria, saying the scheme had been very useful in bringing together Nigerians from various ethnic and religious backgrounds.

The commissioner said, “Eschew attitudes that undermine and threaten our togetherness as one nation under God. You have a role to play in ensuring that our nation is not divided along the lines of religion, ethnicity, politics and everything threatening to divide her. Please, play your role well.”

The Coordinator of the NYSC in Osun State, Mr Emmanuel Attah, 2,129 corps members were registered at the camp at the close of registration.

He urged them to accept their postings and contribute their quotas to the development of the nation.

Attah said, “May I inform you that the orientation course content will be strictly adhered to so that the essential ingredient of the course is not compromised.”

He said that the NYSC has started construction of another hostel in order to accommodate the event increasing corps population while soliciting for assistance from the state government and other public spirited individuals.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]