Treat all children as equals, regardless of gender – Onyerinma
Tare Youdeowei

The Founder of Live Abundantly Empowerment Initiative, Dr Ama Onyerinma, has appealed to parents, teachers, care givers and the nation at large to stop treating female children as inferior to boys.

She made the appeal during a symposium recently organised by the NGO to mark the United Nations Day of the Girl Child at the Wesley School for Hearing Impaired in Surulere, Lagos.

The event, which was attended by more than 200 pupils from various primary and secondary schools in Lagos, also highlighted the challenges faced by female children in the society.

Speaking on the theme, ‘Catalyst for Girl Power,’ Onyerinma stressed the need to educate and empower the girl child. She said, “There are one billion young people in the world and 600 million of that number are adolescent girls. The Girl Child Day was formed by the UN with the goal of getting better education for the girl child, as well as providing a solution to violence against female children.

“We have to change the situation where girls are viewed or treated less respect than the boys and recognise that our girls have value. They have rights, girls can do what boys can do, they have knowledge, they are intelligent.

“Girls should advocate for each other. They should speak up when they see something wrong because advocacy and communication are really important. Adults should mentor girls with special skills so that they can have a purpose in their lives.

“We have to make sure that female children have the skills that will make her life meaningful. They have to acquire the knowledge that will make them better citizens. We want them to have access to education, jobs and be treated equally as their male counterpart. We want a situation where they know their rights because if their rights are violated they should be equipped to know how they can stand up for themselves.”

Commending the efforts of the NGO, the wife of the Governor of Lagos State, Mrs Bolanle Ambode, said, “Although measures are being taken by governments at all levels, NGOs and kind-spirited people to advance the cause of the girl child, more grounds still need to be covered to attain the desired goals for her. The girl-child needs assistance in the area of equal access to quality education, general protection from social evils like rape, domestic violence, molestations and other right abuses.

“As a result, It is imperative that we strengthen the family unit and spread the values of love, in order to build and sustain a healthy polity for our children. Towards achieving this therefore, we must increase awareness in the areas of child rights, parental obligations and the need for extraordinary care and protection of the girl-child. Protecting the girl-child is our collective responsibility and we must all collaborate to give it deserved attention. I commend Live Abundantly Empowerment Initiative, for all the effort at ensuring a secure environment and better future for our girls.”

Also present at the event was the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Yetunde Longe, who represented the Commissioner for Police, Edgal Imohimi. She said that the safety and security of the girl child was paramount due to exposure to all kinds of danger.

“There is no age limit to danger. Gang rape and human trafficking are top on the list and we are stepping up our responsibility to put an end to the vices. Nonetheless, parents should never leave their female children unsupervised. Children should avoid dark places and they should not be hugged or kissed by adults. Teach children to depend on and protect themselves. More important, encourage open conversation between you and your children.”

Addressing parents and teachers on the red flags of child abuse, Longe said, “You have to look out for certain people that children like to avoid or to whom they are unusually drawn. Such people may be pestering them for sex.

“If a child tends to seek refuge outside her home, it could be that the molester lives with her at home. If the child over-reacts to situations, this is also a symptom of abuse. When these signs are identified, seek professional help. Go to the nearest police station or any of the 14 units set up by the state to handle violence against females and make a report.”

On his part, the Lagos Zonal Coordinator, National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons, Mr Daniel Atokolo, spoke on ‘Human Trafficking and the Girl Child’ where he told the children how to identify traffickers and the things they do to exploit and traffic children.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]