Unity schools’ alumni demand 15% annual budget for education
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The alumni of the 104 Federal Government Colleges, acting under the aegis of the Unity Schools Old Students Association, have asked the Federal Government and the 36 states, to commit at least 15 per cent of their annual budget to education.

The unity schools’ alumni said this budget was in line with the National Executive Council’s recommendation that a state of emergency needed to be declared in the education sector because of the decay.

The President of USOSA, Mr Lawrence Wilbert, said this during the association’s Annual General Meeting in Abuja.

Wilber also said the association was ready to partner with the FG to address the dilapidation in unity schools.

Wilbert said, “We go to our Alma maters these days and we find out that the schools are in different stages of dilapidation. It is horrible. One thing we are considering is to be in the forefront of public education.

“We appeal to legislators, the various school management boards and the Federal Ministry of Education to be more responsive.

“We ask the governments of the 36 states to allocate 15 per cent of their annual budgets to education. We also want the Federal Government to allocate 15 per cent of its budget also to education. The allocation presently is around seven per cent. It needs to be improved urgently. We shall focus on engaging the government at all levels to ensure that the standards we enjoyed in those schools are replicated for these present pupils.

“We want to engage constructively with the Federal Government, especially relating to government policies and legislations.”

The USOSA General Secretary, Mr Nasir Wasagu, said the association would ensure that unity schools remained a symbol of unity and national integration.

“There is no better time than now when we need the unity schools to reflect national unity and integration. So we must partner with the Federal Government to foster the unity and to harness the potential of our pupils,” Wasagu added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]