AfDB, CU to create 9m jobs, train 234,000 youths
Tare Youdeowei

The management of the Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State, has said that the institution is among four Nigerian universities chosen to host the African Development Bank’s Centres of Excellence Coding for Employment Programme, which is expected to create over 9 million jobs and train 234,000 youths.

The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof AderemiAtayero, disclosed this during its 17th matriculation ceremony held on the campus in Its last Friday.

Atayero also said the programme would equip youths across Africa with skills needed to secure ICT related employment and businesses.

The V-C, while speaking to the 1,525 undergraduate and 135 post-graduate matriculating students, said, “According to The Nigerian Graduate Report, graduates of this university are highly employed and this is because Covenant equips her students with entrepreneurial skills that ensure self-employment. This is also validated by the Excellence in Quality Entrepreneurship Education Award received recently.

“In addition, Covenant is one of the four institutions in Nigeria selected to host the African Development Bank’s Centres of Excellence Coding for Employment Programme which is aimed at equipping youths across Africa with skills needed to secure ICT related employment and businesses. The programme is expected to create over nine million jobs and train 234,000 youths.”

Stating that the students made a right choice in choosing the university, Atayero added, “the Board, Management, faculty and staff have made Covenant unique among universities in Nigeria and Africa. The university has continued to receive external validations of the positive impact of its unique approach to tertiary education.

“Recently, Covenant University entered the 2019 Times Higher Education World University Ranking and was listed among the top three per cent out of 26,369 universities in the world.

“In the same ranking, the university emerged as one of the top 600 of universities globally, ninth in Africa and first in West Africa and Nigeria respectively,” Ateyero submitted.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]