Edo deploys monitoring officers to 612 schools
Alexander Okere, Benin City

The Edo State Government has started the deployment of quality assurance, learning and development officers to 612 public primary schools in the state under the Basic Education Sector Transformation programme.

The Commissioner for Education, Mr. Emmanuel Agbale, disclosed this during the graduation ceremony of 7,000 teachers trained under the programme at the main bowl of the University of Benin Sports Complex, Benin City.

Agbale, who explained that the development officers were being deployed to the schools to monitor the teaching process, added that the beneficiaries had been equipped to function optimally in an ICT teaching environment and make learning interesting to pupils.

The Executive Chairman of the State Universal Basic Education Board, Dr. Joan Oviawe, said the graduating teachers had since April been trained in different capacity building initiatives.

Oviawe noted that the pupils had become motivated and disposed towards learning as a result of the new innovations in teaching, while the monitoring of teachers had become easier for headmasters with the new technology.

She also said the state government was collaborating with the United States Embassy and RoboRave to acquaint the state teachers with new technology in teaching, artificial intelligence, nanotechnology, amongst others.

She said, “Our teachers have taken their jobs seriously. They no longer make flimsy excuses to absent themselves from work, considering the new technological innovation, which requires them to make their time of arrival and departure known, and the new motivational measures that Edo BEST affords them.”

“Edo BEST teachers and headmasters are fully equipped with capacity in instructional technology, with each having personal computers and smart phones with which they access daily lessons and take attendance from the central support system.”

In his address, Governor Godwin Obaseki pledged to set aside the sum of N6bn for the renovation of primary schools across the state within six months.

Obaseki said that N3bn would be sourced from the Paris Club Refund, while the state government would provide the balance of N3bn for the renovation of primary schools in the 18 local government areas of the state.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]