Delta NUT laments shortage of teachers in public schools
Ochei Matthew, Asaba

The leadership of the Delta State chapter of the Nigerian Union of Teachers has decried the acute shortage of teachers in public primary and secondary schools in the state.

The Chairman, NUT, Delta State, Comrade Titus Okotie, who stated this in Asaba, warned that the lack of adequate teaching personnel in was taking its toll on the education sector.

Okotie called on state and local governments to urgently recruit more teachers to fill the large vacuum already created by the retirement of thousands of teachers in the state in the past four years.

He said, ‘’This is one major challenge facing the public school system in the state. From our records, many teachers have retired from the system, especially in the last four years, without replacement. This is a serious threat to the educational development of the state. May I call on the Delta State Government and the various local government councils to urgently consider the possibility of recruiting more teachers to fill the large vacuum that has been created.”

Okotie also noted that more than 3.000 teaching staff retired from the service in 2017, with over 1,500 expected to retire this year, including the first set of National Certificate of Education graduates in the state.

He warned that the NUT would use all available mechanism to resist the exploitation of primary school teachers by some education secretaries in the state ’’It has come to our notice that primary school teachers in the state are being exploited y some education secretaries through incessant transfers. We are also aware that headmasters are appointed on the basis of the highest bidder without recourse to seniority list.

“This is a gross violation of the law establishing the local government education authority. This Union will not hesitate to activate all available mechanisms to resist this ugly trend in any local government area where such retrogressive practice is discovered,’’ he said.

Okotie listed other issues affecting teachers in the state to include delay in the payment of gratuity and pension to retired teachers, wanton removal of teachers’ names from the payroll without following due process as established in the Extant Rule, selective promotion of university graduate teachers in the primary school beyond SGL 14 and non-payment of May/June 2015 CONPSS arrears to primary school teachers in the state.

He said “The May/June 2015 CONPSS salary arrears is yet to be paid to primary school teachers in Delta State. I hereby appeal to the state government to look into this issue without further delay.’’

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]