Employ more qualified teachers, ASUSS tells Osun govt
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Chairman of the Academic Staff Union of Secondary School Teachers, Mr Olusegun Adediran, has urged the Osun State Government to employ more qualified teachers to teach in government-owned secondary schools in the state.

Adediran said this in an interview with our correspondent in Osogbo on the sidelines of programme organised by the union to mark the 2018 World Teachers Day.

The union leader said that some teachers had retired from schools and that new ones should be employed to fill the vacancies left behind but he advised that only qualified teachers should be engaged.

Lauding Governor Rauf Aregbesola administration for the massive infrastructural development in primary and secondary schools in the state, Adediran said, “Like Oliver Twist, we need more teachers. We need young and vibrant teachers to teach in secondary schools in the state. The last recruitment was done in 2013 and most of the teachers in our schools are old and have retired.

“But those that would be recruited should be qualified and certificated and they should posses passion for teaching. That is when we can expect them to teach very well.”

The ASUSS chairman argued that one of the factors responsible for the dwindling performance of pupils in public examinations was that most teachers in private secondary schools in the country lacked the necessary qualification and competence.

While speaking at the programme, Adediran’s predecessor , Dr Kunle Obawole, urged teachers to always strive to impart knowledge on their pupils.

He also urged principals to make good use of vacant land in their schools by planting trees and crops which could be sold to generate little money to get somethings done without needing to wait for the government.

He stated that they might not be given enough fund for the day to day running of their schools but stressed that they could generate additional fund to augment whatever they were given for the effective running of their schools.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]