NASS intervening in TETFUND disbursement issue –ACU VC
Olufemi Atoyebi, Ibadan

The Vice-Chancellor of Ajayi Crowther University, Oyo, Prof Dapo Asaju, has said that the struggle by private universities to get their own share of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund is still on, following the National Assembly’s promise to look into the Act establishing TETFund, which allows only public tertiary institutions in Nigeria to share the money.

Speaking during a briefing organised ahead of the 10th convocation ceremony of the university, the VC said that a total of 287 undergraduates of the school would be conferred with Bachelor degrees and certificates, while 339 postgraduate students would also graduate from the school.

The convocation ceremony began on Sunday with a thanksgiving service while the grand finale will hold on Friday.

Asaju said, “As a private university, we are not alone in the struggle over TTFUND distribution, we collaborate with other universities. We are now before the national assembly which is examining the Act establishing TETFUND and which makes only government schools the beneficiaries.

“We train Nigerian youths for the nation’s development and TETFUND is two percent Education Tax paid by all registered companies in Nigeria for the advancement of education. If the present effort fails, we will take another path to press home the demand. Despite the fact that we do not have subvention from our founder, we have never owed salaries but we will do better with a share of TETFUND.”

On the convocation ceremony, Asaju said that 19 students finished in the first class category while 102 would graduate in the second class upper category.

“A total of 133 students will also be awarded Bachelors degrees in the second class lower category. Thirty three students ended their first degree study in the third class category. We shall also graduate our first set of postgraduate students from the Faculty of Natural Science, Faculty of Humanities and Faculty of Management Sciences.

At the ceremony, former head of the interim government, Ernest Shonekan; retired Justice in Ogun State High Court, Babasola Ogunade; first indigenous managing director of the National Insurance Corporation of Nigeria, Olabode Ogunlana; and the chairman, Board of Trustees, Global African Future Conference Worldwide, Emmanuel Kampouris will be conferred with honourary doctorate degrees of the university. Asaju said their nomination did not attract any compulsory payment to the school but it was based on their contributions to humanity.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]