Crisis rocks FUOYE ASUU as lecturers defect to CNA
Kamarudeen Ogundele

The Federal University, Oye-Ekiti, chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities is embroiled in a fresh crisis as some of its members declared for the Congress of Nigeria Academics.

The lecturers were aggrieved over what they called spurious attacks on the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof Kayode Soremekun.

The ASUU, Akure zone, had recently, in a meeting with journalists organised last Friday through the zonal Coordinator and Chairman of the Ekiti State University, Ado Ekiti, Prof Olu-Olu Olufayo, alleged that a pervasive pension fraud was committed in FUOYE and irregular recruitment had taken place in the institution.

Olufayo had accused the management of the university of promoting some members of its academic staff without following due process, while failing to remit pension funds to workers, in line with the Federal Fovernment’s directive.

Led by Dr Akinsoranti and Ayodeji Ige, the lecturers also accused ASUU of indulging in a smear campaign.

Akinsoranti said FUOYE had been leading and setting the pace among the 12 universities established in 2010 by the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan.

Accusing the ASUU Chairman in FUOYE, Dr Akinyemi Omonijo, of running the union like a ‘cult’, he stated that the briefing where he made scathing allegations against the VC was not authorised by the congress.

He said, “We wish to state clearly that the press conference of October 4, purportedly addressed by Zonal ASUU on behalf of our members, was not only false but misleading. It is only the congress that can authorise such and thus unfortunately was not the case.

“The smear campaign was a handiwork of an individual backed by a cabal which seeks to mislead the public and cause disaffection in FUOYE, which is still a young university.

“This press conference showed the failure of ASUU to abide by the simple norm of consultation before confrontation. Let me also state that some of the issues raised have been tackled by the management.

“The allegations raised by the zonal chapter of ASUU was devoid of facts, lacking in merit and a product of perverted mind. We hereby dissociate ourselves from this attack coming from a minority among us.”

Corroborating, Ige said, “Those opposed to the management are in the minority group. They knew that the Governing Council of the university and the VC cannot appoint a substantive bursar and registrar since the former occupant of the seat, Mr. Daniel Adeyemo, is in court challenging his removal.

“Since they are out to destroy ASUU here in FUOYE, we have opted out and we will embrace the alternative platform, Congress of Nigeria Academics.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]