Residents, students protest poor state of Edo varsity
Alexander Okere, Benin

Commercial activities were on Monday grounded along the Benin-Lagos expressway, following a protest by the residents of Ekiadolor community over the deplorable state of the Tayo Akpata University of Education.

The residents, who were joined by aggrieved students of the university, barricaded the road in an attempt to draw public attention to what they described as abandonment of the institution.

They also warned politicians not to bother to bring their campaigns to the community as voters would boycott the 2019 general elections.

Motorists and travellers were stranded for over three hours as operatives of the Nigeria Police, Federal Road Safety Corps and the Security and Civil Defence Corps struggled to clear the traffic congestion.

The institution, formerly the College of Education, Ekiadolor, had in 2014 been upgraded to the status of a university by the immediate past governor of the state, Mr Adams Oshiomhole.

But the host community lamented that the new status had not translated into meaningful benefits for its residents, staff and students of the institution.

The Odionwere (eldest man) of the community, Pa Moses Osawaro, told our correspondent that the moribund state of the school had rendered the host community economically handicapped.

Osawaro, aged 86, said, “Since the college was turned into a university, nothing meaningful has happened in our community and it is affecting us. The university status has not helped us and the college that we used to have was taken away.

“Let the government return the college, we want nothing more.”

Another resident, Pa Edward Igbinedion, said, “In 2014, the former governor announced that the college was not good enough, so he wanted to give us a university of education. But we need our college of education back.

“We have been complaining. We visited Government House. When we met the governor, he referred us to the SSG. We can no longer tolerate it. That was why we embarked on the protest.”

One of the youths, Marcus Egbenusi, said that members of the community had resolved not to participate in the forthcoming general election unless their demands were fulfilled. He said, “Elections will not hold here in Adolor ward, which comprises 13 villages. We will not vote. The Odionwere has said that nobody should vote. The state government should bring back the college of education. We do not need Tayo Akpata University of Education. If we do not hear from the government, we will continue the protest.”

Our correspondent also learnt that the demonstration disrupted academic activities in the institution. One of the students, Friday Osayomore, said the deplorable condition of the school had left many of its students in despair.

“We are not happy. As an individual, I am not happy. We are begging the governor and all stakeholders to come to our aid. If the university cannot stay, they should bring back the college.

“We were supposed to take our examinations this morning, but they were disrupted by the protest and we are not happy about it. We cannot exceed the scheduled year of graduation because our rents would have expired by then. We do not have money to renew our rents,” he said.

On his part, the Chairman of the College of Education Academic Staff Union, Mr. Fred Omonuwa, said the defunct college had been the community’s major source of livelihood.

“It is clear now that, with the fall of COLBEN, as it were, economic and social activities are gone and there is no development in that place anymore,” he said, in a telephone interview with our correspondent.

However, the Commissioner for Education, Mr. Emmanuel Agbale, urged the protesters to be patient with the government as it was already addressing the issues raised.

Agbale explained that the defunct college was elevated in the interest of the state, it but could not take off formally due to a logistical challenge.

He stated, “Is it the responsibility of the community to dictate to government? The government has done what it believes is in the best interest of the state, by providing a specialised university, which is the Tayo Akpata University of Education.

“We have a little logistical challenge with the effective take off, which is being addressed. The college of education and the university cannot co-habit there (in Ekiadolor).

Agbale added, “For this reason, we are restructuring our colleges of education and the restructuring involves having just one Edo State College of Education, which will now be a multi-campus college with campuses in each of the three senatorial districts.

“One of them will be in Abudu. If you go there, you will see the massive reconstruction and renovation that is going on. They (protesters) should be patient; once the university takes off and students are admitted, their economy would be revived.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]