Don celebrates girls on International Day of the Girl Child
The immediate past Vice-Chancellor of the University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, Professor Comfort Ekpo, through her NGO, the Women In Total Girls Development, is set to celebrate the 2018 International Day of the Girl Child.

Scheduled for October 9 to 11, with the theme, Justice for Girls, the event would have Global Institute of Planning and Sustainable Development of the Chicago State University, USA, as partners of WIT-GIRL.

The celebration, according to Ekpo and the event coordinator, Dr Margaret Mboho, will feature an exhibition, a talk show, symposium, drama sketches and award of certificates to skill acquisition trainees, to which all girls, women groups and lovers of education of the girl child are invited.

Also expected at the event, which is scheduled to hold at Uboh Way, behind Olu Obasanjo Way, Uyo, are resource persons like Dr Folurunsho Alakija, Africa’s Richest Woman and Dr Margaret King.

Igbinedion varsity VC taxes students on academic excellence

The Vice-Chancellor of Igbinedion University Okada, Edo State, Professor Lawrence Ezemonye, has challenged new students of the 2018/2019 academic session of the university to pursue excellence with passion and remain focused in their academic pursuit.

Ezemonye who made this known at the 2018 resumption orientation program, noted that the students are the first set of fresh students he was receiving as upon becoming VC of the university.

He further assured the students of the university’s management team and all staff would see to their welfare throughout their stay on campus. He, therefore, encouraged the students to feel free at all times to approach any of the university officials for guidance and assistance.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]