GCUOBA set to hold annual fundraising dinner
Tare Youdeowei

The Government College Ughelli Old Boys Association is set to hold its seventh annual dinner and fundraising party in Asaba, capital of Delta State.

Scheduled to take place on October 13, the dinner would have Engr. Joseph Akpieyi, the Chairman Arco Group Plc and former Managing Director of Warri Refinery and Petrochemicals Company, give a keynote address themed, ‘Sustainability of Educational Excellence in Government Public Secondary Schools in Nigeria – Which Way Forward?’

This was made known by the association’s President General Worldwide, Prof Oritsegbemi Omatete, during a briefing where he stated that the aim of the dinner was to appraise the state of the school and see areas of intervention, raise funds to improve the school and work towards a three day seminar on modern teaching methods for teachers in the school.

His words, “In the last 20 years we have raised nearly half a billion naira from donations from Old Boys and their friends to refurbish and rehabilitate infrastructure and facilities at the school. The association is also actively trying to influence the recruitment and remuneration of additional teachers in the school, especially for the core subjects.

“The annual dinner and fundraising is the main vehicle through which the association raises funds for these interventions, but the dinner is not just about fund raising, it is also about honouring deserving, high-achieving and accomplished very senior Old Boys who entered school 55 years ago, with the Ancient Mariners award,” Omatete said.

In his remarks, the Chairman of the Dinner Organising Committee, Mr Alfred Okoigun, said that, “Last year we spent half a billion and this year another half billion has gone into the school. Because of our effort the state government has also put in its effort. The intervention started in1998 and so far we have erected an ICT centre with 60 computers, solar lights in all the reading rooms, to mention a few. We are doing this because we want our school to be like schools in England that are 400 years old and still maintain the standard and quality of output.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]