Varsity begins test broadcast of radio station
Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt

THE Alex Ekwueme Federal University Ndufu-Alike, Ebonyi State, has unveiled its new radio station, 104.7 AE-FUNAI FM.

Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Chinedum Nwajiuba, said the radio station was established to groom students with the practical experience to make impact on the global economy on graduation.

Nwajiuba, who spoke during a test broadcast of the facility, noted that the radio station was established to inform and educate members of the university community and its environs.

He said the radio station would train students of the university in modern broadcasting, stressing that students of Mass Communication would be the main beneficiaries of the station as it would be used for their hands-on training.

The vice-chancellor explained that, as part of the university’s corporate social responsibility, the station would broadcast daily news on Agricultural Extension Services in order to help members of the university’s host community, especially farmers, to improve their businesses.

He said that the radio station would boost the economy of its host community by developing and broadcasting programmes that would be of great benefit to them.

Nwajiuba thanked Zanders Foundation for donating the broadcast equipment being used in the station, promising that the station will in no distant time get its broadcasting licence.

Speaking on the rationale for supporting AE, FUNAI, the Chairman of the foundation, Chief Kenneth Zanders, described the organisation as a non-governmental organisation created to promote the broadcast media in Nigeria.

He explained that the donation of the equipment for the establishment of the radio station was in support of the good works of the vice chancellor and called on the private sector to take advantage of the opportunities in the university to invest in mutual benefiting areas.

He gave the management of the university the assurance that the radio station would receive National Broadcasting Commission’s operational licence, adding that the facility would also be powered with solar energy in order to promote green energy in the university.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]