We have stamped out cultism from OsunPoly – Rector
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Rector of the Osun State Polytechnic, Iree, Dr. Jacob Agboola, on Monday disclosed that the management of the institution had stamped out cultism and successfully returned the institution to the path of academic progress.

The rector said this during a press briefing held on the main campus of the polytechnic to announce its combined sixth convocation ceremony and the award of National and Higher National certificates to graduates of the 2015/2016 and 2016/2017 academic sessions.

Describing cultism, prostitution and other vices as some of the obstacles to the attainment of educational development and growth in many institutions in the country, Agboola said that the management under his leadership had recorded some achievements, which had put the institution on a steady path to academic excellence.

He said, “The present administration was able to get rid of certificate racketeering in the institution. The process of admission to the polytechnic is now transparent and devoid of any shady deals. This administration has stamped out cultism on the campus and I am proud to say that the students have keyed into this policy of zero tolerance for cultism.

“The institution has also witnessed very impressive performances in various external/ professional examinations, including the Institutes of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria and Chattered Bankers of Nigeria, as well as the Chattered Institute of Management.”

Expressing satisfaction with the quality of graduates produced by the institution, Agboola said the polytechnic had been receiving positive feedback from various employers regarding the good performances of its graduates.

Describing the OsunPoly as one of the leading polytechnic’s with the highest number of accredited programmes by the National Board for Technical Education, he said the institution would not relent in its quest for excellence.

The rector noted that the polytechnic had been collaborating with the University of Sussex in the United Kingdom, as well as with the Virginia State University

and Manitoba University, Canada, especially in the areas of agricultural education, research, science, engineering and staff and students exchange programmes.

To further ensure that the students are well trained in agriculture and food processing to boost local production of food, the rector added, the polytechnic acquired and paid for 117 acres of land for the purpose of building a third campus and home to the College of Agriculture.

Agboola said, “Our drive towards promoting the educational policy on vocational skills acquisition has continued to be intensified. The establishment of an entrepreneurial education centre, where all our students were made to acquire skills in various trades.”

The rector said that the successes recorded by the management could not be divorced from the able leadership provided by the Governing Council of the institution led by Mrs Olu Maduka.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]