Don laments rising cost of tertiary education
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

A Professor of Engineering Science, Damian Ogbonnaya, has said that many Nigerian youths have been unable to gain access to quality education due to the rising cost of higher education in the country.

Ogbonnaya, who teaches in the United States, urged Nigerian youths to participate in programmes that would help them generate income to meet their academic needs.

The professor stated these in Abuja during the inauguration of a scholarship lottery scheme by a non-governmental organisation, SchoolMe Foundation, where students and pupils across the country could win cash prizes ranging from N5000 to N300,000 to support their education.

The scholarship lottery scheme was endorsed by the National Lottery Regulatory Commission, while some students, who won in the first batch, were called on their mobile phones during the inauguration for their prizes.

Ogbonnaya said that the cost of education was getting astronomically high and many were finding it very difficult to access quality education.

He said, “Some youths, who have accessed higher education, are finding it difficult to go through school because of financial constraints. Countless numbers are dropping out of school; others want to further their studies but do not have the means. This has led to increased number of miscreants who become a menace to the society.”

The SchoolMe Convener, Mr Jacob Momoh, said the initiative was designed to raise funds to mitigate the high cost of education and support the academic dreams of youths.

He said, “Since 1960, our education system took a new dimension with various challenges. It brought about an increase in the number of schools, colleges and universities. It is on the basis of this desire to bridge the educational gap and provide a solution to the dwindling access to quality education that gave birth to this scholarship lottery scheme. Pooling resources from the public to make funds available to anyone who is interested in going to school is our main focus.

“The SchoolMe scholarship lottery is poised to provide a viable scholarship initiative with a two-prong approach which are instant financial rewards and scholarship.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]