ACE to be upgraded to varsity soon – Provost
Peter Dada, Akure

The Provost of the Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo, Ondo State, Prof. Olukoya Ogen on Monday disclosed that the institution would be upgraded to a university status.

The degree-awarding college of education was earlier upgraded to a university of education in 2014 by the Federal Government under former President Goodluck Jonathan, but the status was reversed by the Muhammadu Buhari administration following an allegation of lack of due process.

However, Ogen, who spoke with journalists at the commencement of the 34th Convocation Ceremony of the college, which started on Monday, said the process of upgrading the college to a university was ongoing as the process had reached 95 percent completion.

In spite of the development, he said the college was yet to drop in its standard as one the best colleges of education in West Africa.

He said” We have been on this for quite some times, the upgrade to the university status was only put on hold, the matter has passed through the senate, there is going to be a concurrent discussion on it by the National Assembly.

“So very soon the bill would be sent to the President for final approval. So we have achieved 95 percent of the upgrade.”

On the convocation ceremony, the provost said a total number of 12,628 students of the institution would be conferred the awards of the National Certificate in Education, Bachelor of Arts/Science Education and Certificates and Diplomas from different programmes offered by the college.

He explained that the ceremony would involve graduated students of four sessions, which included 2012/2013, 2014/2015, 2015/2016 and 2016/2017 sessions.

According to him, during the event there would be conferment of fellowship and awards to some eminent Nigerians in recognition of their various roles in the college and the society at large.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]