43 American varsities woo Nigerian students
Tare Youdeowei

About 43 tertiary institutions on a mission to encourage Nigerian students to study in the United States participated the 19th Annual EducationUSA College Fair held at the Supreme Education Foundation, Magodo, Lagos, was to provide options for graduates, as well as promote educational diversity and variety.

This was made known by the Public Affairs Officer, EducationUSA, Mr Russell Brooks, as he explained the US mission to Nigeria. “A top priority for us is to support Nigeria in its effort to develop the huge potential of its economy and of its human capital. In order to do that, one leg of our effort is to help enhance educational opportunities for young Nigerians. This fair exemplifies a major part of that effort.”

Brooks also went on to state that the U.S. has more than 4,500 accredited institutions which would enhance access to jobs. “Schooling in the US would enhance mutual understanding, that is people to people exchanges which are an important component of strengthening our relations with the global community.

“It will also provide options for graduates. Nigerians will benefit from studying in the United States. A degree from a US college or university leads to additional schooling or jobs. International students may seek practical training through the Curriculum Practical training and the Optional Practical Training. Also, all this is to promote educational variety because the U.S. has more than 4,500 accredited institutions and offers everything from two-year associate degrees to four-year bachelors, masters and doctoral degrees.”

EducationUSA is a US Department of State network of over 425 international student advising centres in 180 countries, 55 centres in Sub-Saharan Africa, two centres in Nigeria; at the US Consulate in Lagos and US Embassy in Abuja.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]