ASUU rejects Babalakin’s proposal on funding for varsities
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Academic Staff Union of Universities, Akure Zone, comprising Obafemi Awolowo University, Federal University of Technology, Akure, Federal University, Oye Ekiti and Ekiti State University, has rejected the proposal of the Dr Wale Babalakin-led re-negotiation committee to shift the funding of universities to parents.

The union also called on the Federal Government to remove Babalakin on the pretext that he had become an impediment to the resolution of the issues confronting universities in the country.

[READ ALSO] Match-fixing: Anichebe reports Chinese club to FIFA

Speaking during a briefing held at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, the Coordinator of Akure Zone of ASUU, Prof Olu Olufayo, said the union would not shift the burden of funding entirely to the masses, whom he described as impoverished.

Olufayo said that educating the citizens should be the responsibility of the government and the same government would not be allowed to shift its responsibility to the helpless people.

The union accused Babalakin of disregarding the principle of collective bargaining and deliberately slowing down the process, as well as mocking the core tenets of industrial democracy.

Olufayo said, “Dr Wale Babalakin is arrogantly exhibiting an I-know-it-all attitude and he is also conducting himself as a judge, instead of a negotiator.

“Babalakin’s intention is to make education a burden for the common citizen, which is going to make parents and sponsors spend more on educating their wards. We no longer have confidence in the chairman because the union is against shifting the responsibility of financing the education sector to poor masses.”

ASUU also faulted the FG for claiming, that it gave the sum of N20bn to the union whereas it did not.

Olufayo said that ASUU was not a spending agency but a union that could not be given such an amount.

He said, “We are however perplexed and disappointed that governments, both federal and states are not responding to our appeals for reason to bring about genuine transformation in the education sector and the nation.

“So, we once again appeal to all genuine progressive individuals and groups to prevail on the Federal Government to arrest a brewing restive situation in the Nigerian university system.

“We also want to inform the Nigerian public that if this should continue, the government should be held responsible for the outcome as we will not be able to ensure smooth working conditions in our universities.”

READ ALSO: Uncertainty hangs over the integrity of 2019 elections

Also, the ASUU chairman of FUTA, Dr Bola Oniya, added that the FG was not showing interest in addressing the issue at hand.

He said the union had been at the mercy of the government since September 2017 for not addressing the issue of poor funding and proliferation of state universities, release of 20 billion revatilisation fund for public universities and payment of all arrears in all universities that have met the requirements on Presidential Initiative on Continuous Audit Verification, among others.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]