ASUU vows to resist attempts to commercialise varsity activities
Etim Ekpimah, Uyo

The Academic Staff Union of Universities has said that universities in Nigeria will resist any attempt by some people to introduce measures that are exploitative into the university system.

The union noted that some Nigerians were not happy that the Federal and state governments own public universities. It said that such people had been looking for opportunities to take education out of the reach of ordinary Nigerians.

The ASUU, Calabar Zones, in a statement released in Uyo on Monday, decried the Federal Government apathy towards the funding of education in the country.

The Coordinator of the Calabar Zone, Dr. Aniekan Brown, said it was a pity that successive governments have never been interested in the proper funding of education but to secure second terms once they were elected into office.

“It is expedient to note that the renegotiation of the FGN-ASUU 2009 agreement, which was due in 2012, has been truncated as a result of the Federal Government’s insistence on the commercialisation of tertiary education in the country as championed by Dr. Wale Babalakin-led government team. This position violates all attributes of collective bargaining.

“That exploitative position is against the Nigerian people and ASUU will resist it.

“Successive governments are more interested in securing a second term of office to itself immediately after inauguration than preparing the next generation of Nigerians for the challenges of competitive global economy, which can only be guaranteed by sound, qualitative, affordable and accessible education,” he said.

He lamented that since 1999, the highest budgetary allocation of 11.79 per cent was in 2015.

He said the development came to a scandalously low point of less than seven per cent in the 2018 budget by government that promised 15 per cent in its party manifesto.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]