FG should declare state of emergency in education —Group
Friday Olokor, Jos

The African Students Education Support Initiative, a non-governmental organisation, has called on the Federal Government to declare a state of emergency in the education sector.

The organisation also announced its plans to “sponsor and support the Internally Displaced Children in Nigeria to acquire quality education.”

The Executive Director of ASESI and immediate President of the National Association of Nigerian Students, Chinonso Obasi, stated these in a statement he issued on Monday in commemoration of Nigeria’s 58th independence anniversary.

According to him, sponsoring and empowering internally displaced children was “a better way of saving and protecting their future.”

Obasi said, “Nigeria is blessed with natural and human endowments, but, unfortunately, the country lacks good leaders who can invest in the abundant human resources as basic education is fundamental to everyone’s life.

“Nigeria as a country is sitting on a time-bomb. The neglected citizens, who have no access to quality education and affordable medical care services, shall someday express their grievances to the society.

“The future of young Nigerians is already doomed by those who occupy public offices and who ought to provide basic education for the Nigerian child. Nigeria’s 58th independence anniversary is a call for sober reflection. The best option left now is for the Federal Government to declare a state of emergency in education.

“It is only in Nigeria you will find a public office holder who spends tax payers money on sending his children overseas to acquire a quality education while educational institutions in his constituency remain neglected.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]