Yejide girls win Ibadan inter-schools’ quiz
Olufemi Atoyebi, Ibadan

Yejide Girls Grammar School, Ibadan on Thursday won an inter-schools quiz competition organised by Youth Empowerment Foundation for nine schools in Ibadan.

Our Lady of Apostles finished in the second position while Queens’ School came third. The competition was witnessed by representatives of the Oyo State Government from the Ministry of Information, Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Agency for Youth Development and the Oyo State Primary Healthcare Board.

Executive Secretary of the YEF, Mrs Iwalola Akin-Jimoh, expressed sadness over the high rate of abuses perpetrated by adults against girl-children in the Nigerian schools and society. She called on the governments at all levels to pay higher attention to security of the youths in the schools and the society.

According to her, constant threat to the lives of many female pupils and youths was affecting their education advancement and all-round development.

She said, “One major thing I will want the Federal Government to be conscious of is that a girl child is not secured in a lot of communities. In many communities, not only as it concerns the Chibok girls kidnapped by the Boko Haram insurgents or Leah Sharibu, you find out that a girl child does not feel safe in such communities.

“Many of them are being abused not only sexually through rape but also mentally, physically and emotionally. Many of the people who perpetrate these acts are not brought to justice to serve as deterrent to others who might want to do same.

“This goes to show that when security is breached, there are lots of negative consequences that trail it. So, the government and the communities must be ready to protect the girl-child and even the boy-child.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]