Old girls donate classrooms, staff room to Queens’ School
Olufemi Atoyebi, Ibadan

The Queens’ School Old Girls Association has donated a block of three classrooms and a staff room to the school as part of the association’s intervention to tackle some of the challenges facing the secondary school which is located in Apata area of Ibadan.

During the official handing over of the project to the school, the chairperson of the Ibadan chapter of the association, Mrs Foluke Onasanya, said the project was a response to the call by present and former heads of the school especially after 12 classrooms were declared structurally defective by the Oyo State government a few years ago. According to her, the pupils endured an uncomfortable period because more than 100 of them had to share a classroom because of lack of space to accommodate them. She said the Ibadan chapter facilitated the raising of the fund used to accomplish the project.

She said, “A block of 12 classrooms and 12 toilets was declared structurally defective in 2013. The principal then, Mrs A. Adekanmbi, had to quickly evacuate the pupils to already overcrowded classrooms. Even the pavilion changing room was used as classroom. She sought the help of old girls to come to the rescue of the school. This urgent need was evident in all her speeches at valedictory services and other school programmes.

“Two of her successors, Mr Y. Fatoki and Mrs Babalola Oluwatoba, continued with the plea. The old girls then made it their priority to provide classrooms for the pupils. Ibadan chapter decided to seek for fund to carry out the project. In March 2016, a fundraiser was launched with old girls and philanthropists invited. The amount generated was used to start the building.”

Onasanya said that one and a half years after the commencement of the project, it was completed with amount raised from another fund raiser in Ibadan. While thanking all those who contributed to the project, Onasanya also called on the management of the school and the pupils to ensure proper usage of the building so that it could serve the purpose it was intended to serve.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]