QC old girls hail retired principal, Are
Oladimeji Ramon

The Queen’s College Old Girls Association on September 16, 2018, celebrated the 24th Principal of the school, Chief Betty Are, who retired on August 16, 2018, having clocked 60.

Are, who was Queen’s College Principal for only 18 months, was praised for reclaiming the school from rot and setting it on the path of growth.

At a send-off organised for her by the Queen’s College Old Girls Association, Are, who was appointed the school principal at a time the school was hit by an epidemic which claimed the lives of three students, was commended for her energy, passion and an exceptional sense of duty.

Speaking on why QCOGA decided to celebrate Are, the association’s president, Prof Frances Ajose, said, “We decided to celebrate Mrs Are because she was exceptional in her duty. She worked selflessly and energetically, giving all of herself to rescue the school from sinking into oblivion, occasioned by the tragic epidemic that claimed the lives of three students and rendered over a thousand very ill.

“The association had to stand up straight to terminate the epidemic when the previous principal insisted on denial and the PTA initially didn’t understand.

“But when the PQC was replaced and Mrs Are came, she was able to synergise efforts of QCOGA, the PTA and the state Ministry of Health with her own selfless enthusiasm to terminate the epidemic and started the process of rebuilding and restoring the school.”

Ajose said Are’s successor had to continue from where she stopped before the rot in the school could be completely eliminated.

“There’s still a long way to go because the rot in the school could not be completely fixed in the 18 months that PQC Are was in charge but she established a foundation that can easily be advanced if the incoming PQC is as energetic and selfless,” Ajose said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]