Build institutions, not skyscrapers, don tells Igbo billionaires
Mudiaga Affe, Calabar

The Deputy Vice-Chancellor of Academics, University of Calabar, Cross River State, Prof Uche Amalu, has called on billionaires from the South-East to invest in capacity building instead of building skyscrapers that add no value to the development of the region.

Amalu made the call during an economic summit organised by the Igbo Graduates Students Association of UNICAL in Calabar.

The DVC, who was the chairman of the occasion, said the zone was gradually lagging behind in educational development due to the quest for money and other materials things.

He said, “Money is not everything. What we have today in Igbo land is a consequent of misplaced value because money is in the hands of wrong people.

“If you go to various states in the South East, what you see is high rise buildings everywhere, nobody is thinking building any high institution for the capacity building of the future generations.

“I call on all our billionaires and millionaires to think of investing in education rather than these skyscrapers.”

Also speaking, the president of the association, Mr Chiedozie Ikowu, said the purpose of organising the summit was to sensitise Ndigbo on the importance of communalism, pluralism and togetherness.

He said it was time the Igbo started thinking of the problems facing the zone, urging them to look inwards and make use of their God-given potentials, capabilities and talents toward developing the economy of the zone.

The Guest Speaker, Prof Chukwuemeka Duruamaku, of the Business Management Education Department of UNICAL, described Igbo billionaires as the pillars of the Nigerian economy.

He commended the students for organising the event with the theme, ‘Capacity Building and Economic Development in Igbo Land South East Nigeria.’

He said the people of the zone stimulated economic competition, which was good for the development of any nation.

“The summit shows that, young people in the South East zone are working hard. Igbos are the ones sustaining the economy of Nigeria. They have the ability to stay anywhere in the country under any condition,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]