Odubanjo donates learning materials to indigent pupils
Philanthropist and founder of the Hammed Odubanjo Foundation, Mr. Adewale Odubanjo, has made a personal donation of books and school bags to the pupils of St. Andrew’s Primary School and Community Primary School, Ipaja in Alimosho Local Council Development Area of Lagos.

Speaking while presenting the items to the schools, Odubanjo, said the foundation was committed to alleviating poverty in the country by supporting and improving access to quality education and health services to schools, orphanages and communities.

Reacting to the gesture, the Headmasters of both schools, Mrs. A.O. Beckley and Mrs. S.M. Ojo of St. Andrew’s Primary School and Community Primary School, respectively, expressed happiness that their schools were beneficiaries of such kind gesture.

They also called on other public-spirited individuals to extend the same hand of fellowship to other schools so that indigent pupils could continue their education unhindered, especially as the prevailing economic situation in the country made it difficult for most parents to discharge their obligations to their wards.

In a letter of appreciation to the foundation, the two head teachers noted, “We unanimously appreciate your kind gesture towards the education of the young ones by giving exercise books and schoolbags to pupils of the two schools to enhance smooth teaching and learning and to improve the standard of education in our society at large.”

Also, Alimosho Education Secretary, Mrs. Airat Alamu, whose permission was sought before the donation could be made, also commended the foundation for the gesture that had Alimosho as its first port of call. He praised Odubanjo for his willingness to help Alimosho grow.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]