MAUTECH unveils scholarship scheme for indigent students
Hindi Livinus, Yola

The management of the Modibbo Adama University of Technology, Yola has instituted a scholarship scheme to assist indigent students of the institution.

At the launch of the Student Support scheme over the weekend, more than N16m was raised for the scholarship scheme, with contributions coming from the Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, His Royal Highness Dr. Barkindo

Mustapha, the Lamido of Adamawa and the Academic Staff Union of Nigerian Universities, ASUU, in the sums of N2.5m, N5m and N6m, respectively.

The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Kyari Mohammed, said the fund realised from the event was not enough to make the scheme sustainable and urged more support for the scheme.

He said that although the scheme already the sum of N16,304, 413 in its kitty, it still was not sufficient to make the scheme sustainable.

He noted that despite the fact that public university education in the country was tuition-free, tertiary institutions still make other charges on their students, which many indigent students could not afford.

According to him, MAUTECH charges N37,000 which is an equivalent of $100, yet many students still dropped out of the institution because they could not afford it.

“Public university education is tuition-free in Nigeria, yet we charge about N37,000 per annum for other charges, which we use to provide electricity, water sanitation and other services since government allocation to universities has been declining.

“Sadly, there are students who drop out due to their inability to pay this equivalent of $100, an amount we spend without equivocation during business lunch or social dinner at the Bukka or Zuma Grill at the Abuja Hilton.

“There are some students who struggle to pay N37,000 but cannot afford to feed themselves. There are some who work as labourers at construction sites on this campus or do farm work to keep body and soul together.”

The guest speaker at the event, Dr. Pongri James, said there was an urgent need on the part of the public to support government towards providing education for the needy, the poorest of the poor in our communities, adding that the reality on ground is that “Government cannot fund education alone”.

However, Ahmed Joda, an Elders statesman who pledged to adopt two indigent students and carter for their scholarship, lamented them challenges of low income groups in getting education.

He said government cannot be excused for whatever reasons for not providing access to education for its citizens and urged education to be placed on a first line charge.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]