‘Parents are major causes of examination malpractice’
Tare Youdeowei

Stakeholders in the education sector have blamed parents for the rising incidence of examination malpractice in primary and secondary schools in the country.

One of them, the Managing Director, Early Years Education Foundation at The West Prime Model School, Prof. Bola Dada, blamed the trend on the excessive value, which parents place on the acquisition of certificate and qualifications.

Dada noted that, apart from putting pressure on pupils to cheat during examinations, parents were also guilty of colluding with teachers, as well as invigilators, to help pupils cheat.

He said, “When we talk about malpractice, the cause of it is more than the child going into the classroom to write exam and cheating. It stems from our idea of education. We put so much value on certificate and qualification. There are cases where parents come together to contribute money to bribe invigilators, in that case, the malpractice we are talking about is what we only see when the child went into the class to do it. The major cause of it is that we don’t know what constitutes education, we fail to realise that the child must have all the other forms of development.

“In primary school, for instance, the development of a child is divided into; intellectual or academic, emotional development, social development – how much has the child the culture or values of the society, physical development – is the child old enough to be and cope in the class? Because of the focus on academics, the parents ignore the things that will prepare the child for life. As a result of their quest for a certificate for their child, the corruption starts from when the parent falsifies age documents. They end up doing anything within their means to ensure the child gets the desired qualification.”

The former Senior Lecturer and Head of Department, Race and Community Studies at Edge Hill University College, Ormskirk, urged parents not to rush their young children through school, no matter how intelligent.

He warned that parents who put pressure on their children end up exposing them to social vices. “When you talk about bullying and cultism, this issue causes them too because the child is not physically and emotionally ready for the independence required in secondary school and it continues like that to the university level.

“The government has the curriculum and has classified the age at which a child can go into primary or secondary school but parents still find a way around it. We need a reorientation of our parents to know that there is no advantage in rushing a child through school or being overly focused on certificate acquisition. Even for child protégés, they are pushed into the limelight at the young age of nine, if care is not taken to ensure they develop appropriately, in their later life they become a failure because so much pressure was put on them that they lost their identity as children.”

Also speaking on examination malpractice, a teacher based in the Surulere area of Lagos, Mr Jeffery Obika, noted that fear and self-doubt could make children to cheat during examinations.

On his part, a pupil in Warri, Delta State, John Ifeanyi, who admitted to exchanging answer sheets, taking pieces of paper with answers written on them, smuggling textbooks into the exam hall and even copying from a seatmate, said he did it because he was afraid of being stigmatised.

“I was a very good boy in primary school, I didn’t have the need to cheat. I started feeling the need to cheat in SS2 when I realised that I was no longer understanding the subjects and was lazy to read, so I could not keep up. I didn’t want to fail because of the way my friends and family will look at me as if I am unserious. I also didn’t want to feel bad with myself, I didn’t want my parents to be disappointed and say I wasted their money,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]