FG should work towards national lingua franca –Don
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

Prof Ahmadu Bello of the National Open University of Nigeria has urged the Federal Government to begin the process of legalising a lingua franca, noting that many Nigerians are not fluent in the English Language, which is the current official language of the country.

Speaking during the 15th Inaugural Lecture of NOUN held in Abuja, last Friday, Bello said there were more indigenes of the various communities and ethnic groups that make up Nigeria than those that could be truly called citizens of the country. He described them as Nigerians with Hausa, Fulani, Igbo, Yoruba and other mentalities, adding that there were no “Nigerians with a Nigerian mentality.”

Bello, who was the guest lecturer at the event, argued that since Nigeria could not evolve a national lingua franca, strict emphasis must be placed on the English Language in public places to drive home the spirit of nationalism and citizenship.

He said, “Any country with citizens must, in practical terms, have a lingua franca. Nigeria’s current official Language, English, cannot be spoken fluently by a reasonable number of its citizens.

“A substantial number of Nigerians may not know that the country’s official language is English because it has not been taken seriously as a means of official communication in every facet of the country’s life.

“Educational institutions in the country that ought to help in this regard are also culprits. Some Nigerian intellectuals have been calling for the substitution of English Language with the indigenous mother tongue in the schools for effective teaching and learning, despite the fact that Nigeria has over 300 mother tongues. Would there not be a riotous scenario in our teaching process, if not anarchy, if the indigenous languages are adopted in schools?

“On the way forward, the process could be set in motion through constitutional provisions by either legalising a lingua franca or placing strong emphasis on the country’s official language – English.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]