Rochas Foundation promises to educate Bauchi out-of-school children
Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi

The Rochas Foundation has pledged to continue to mop up out-of-school children from the streets of Bauchi and give them qualitative education.

The Principal of Rochas Foundation College, Sarah Johnson Mafia, stated this in a recent meeting with journalists in Bauchi.

Mafia said the foundation had, so far, sponsored the education of about 446 out-of-school children in the state.

She added that close to 1, 000 pupils in Bauchi would benefit from the foundation’s free education programme within the next three years.

She said: “It is not easy to come from somewhere and learn that somebody who does not know you has decided to change your life by giving you qualitative and comprehensive free education. It is a very rare gesture. And that is why we are here to celebrate former Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State and to pray to God to give him long life so that he can continue to affect lives positively.

“We started in 2017 with 192 pupils, in 2018, we got 144 pupils admitted in schools. This year, we have enrolled 120 pupils in school. So we have a total of 446 pupils in junior secondary school.

“Before we get to SS3, we should have moved more than 900 from the streets of Bauchi and given them free education. The vision of our founder is to ensure there is no more roaming in the streets.”

Mafia also noted that most of the children, who had been on the streets for a long time, lacked love, respect and moral values before the school came to their aid and inculcated good moral values in them.

“When we brought them to the school, many of them didn’t know what love and care were all about. Right now, they can’t stay without each other because there is a bond that they share.

“What we want is to see stars emerge from this school in the near future. We want to see them deliberating on matters of the country. That is what the founder wants,” she said.

The Principal called on the parents of the pupils to collaborate with the school by inculcating in them good moral values at home, “They should groom the children very well so that it will be easy to raise great leaders amongst them.”

The Chairman of the occasion, Bauchi State Head of Civil Service, Nasiru Yalwa, commended the Founder of the Rochas Foundation, Senator Rochas Okorocha for establishing the school in Bauchi, saying that it has complemented government’s efforts in the education sector.

The HoS stressed the importance of education in nation building, stressing that no amount spent to educate a child would be too much, since illiteracy had become a dangerous disease that should be tackled seriously.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]