South African leaders should address xenophobic issues –Dons
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

Some academics have said that xenophobic attacks on foreigners living in South Africa would continue if the country’s leadership fails to tackle the problem with the right measures.

They made this known at a lecture held at Lead City University, Ibadan in Oyo State to commemorate the 77th birthday of Prof. Alaba Ogunsanwo.

The lecture was themed, ‘Xenophobia or Acrophobia: Causes, Consequences and Corrections.’

Ogunsanwo, a former Nigerian ambassador to Belgium, is one of the leading professors of international relations in Africa.

The discussants in their separate presentations had submitted that the deep radical issues in South Africa ought to be addressed by the country’s leadership.

One of them, Prof. Isaac Albert of the Institute of Peace and Strategic Studies at the University of Ibadan, warned that violence against foreigners would continue in South Africa if necessary actions were not taken.

Albert, who was the lead speaker, said the political leadership of the country should be more altruistic, in terms of getting the ordinary citizens of the country involved in development processes.

He said although apartheid ended many years ago in South Africa, those benefitting from it were black politicians who had neglected the ordinary citizens.

“The point I have made is that what we are witnessing today in South Africa is not only xenophobia but also Afrophobia. It is xenophobia in a sense that both whites and blacks in South Africa don’t want to see black people from other African countries.

“It is Afrophobia because black South Africans are the ones we see on the streets stoning fellow black Africans and burning their properties,” he said.

Albert said though the political leadership of the country had started taking a number of remedial actions, such as sending envoys around the continent, the deed had been done already.

He added, “What they have done so far has drastically affected their economy. The stock market is going down as other African countries leave the country. New investments might not be coming in and other Africans are now placing different embargoes on South Africa.

“Some embassies have shut down, including that of Nigeria. The people are not coming to South Africa for games. So, it is a minus for South Africa.”

READ ALSO: South Africa approves commercial flights for Air Peace

The Executive Vice-Chairman, Ibadan School of Government and Public Policy, Prof. Tunji Olaopa, urged African countries not to see South Africans as their enemies, but those who really need help.

“At the end of the day, other Africans should realise that the apartheid transition has been won, there is also a major post-apartheid crisis in South Africa that must be resolved.

“Unfortunately, we should not see the fact that they are attacking us and see them as enemy. We should see that they have issues and they need help,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]