111 pupils receive NNPC/SNEPC scholarships
Tony Okafor, Awka

The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, in collaboration with Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company, has awarded scholarships to 111 primary school pupils across the country.

The Managing Director of SNEPC, Mr Bayo Ojulari, disclosed this during the 2018 National Cradle-to-Career Scholarship Awards ceremony, sponsored by both companies and held at the Grundtvig International College, Oba in Onitsha, Anambra State.

Ojulari described the Cradle-to-Career scholarship award as an all-inclusive programme that provided opportunities and a strong foundation for brilliant pupils in public primary schools across Nigeria to attend reputable secondary schools in the country.

He said the programme would contribute positively towards the actualisation of the UNESCO ‘Education for All’ goal.

His words, “We do this because to us in SNEPC, education is key to national development. It is the answer to today’s challenges and an anchor for a better and brighter future. The scholarship covers tuition, health insurance and boarding for the six years of secondary school. The 2018/2019 scholars are the fourth set of beneficiaries, bringing the total number of recipients since the inception of the programme to 375.

“In the four years of the programme, there has been commendable feedback from stakeholders with proof points on the performance of the children leading their classes and achieving huge academic feats. This year, three of our scholars will be joining the Olympiad class of one of the partner schools, a special class designed to prepare high-performing students for national and international competitions. This is an excellent accomplishment and I expect the other scholars to follow in similar stead.”

Ojulari said the successful candidates emerged from a competitive process, starting with the National Examination Council providing the list of best-performing students from public primary schools across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory from the National Common Entrance Examination.

He added that following the selection, the scholars were subjected to a written test by the partner schools from where the best three candidates from each state were selected.

He said the beneficiaries were enrolled in seven schools, namely, Premiere Academy, Abuja; Nigerian Tulip International College, Kaduna; LeadForte Gate International Secondary School, Awoyaya- Lagos; Top Faith International School, Uyo, Akwa Ibom; Edgewood College, Lekki-Lagos; Saint Francis Catholic Secondary School, Idimu-Lagos and Grundtvig International Secondary School, Oba, Onitsha.

While describing the programme as a lifetime opportunity, he enjoined the beneficiaries to maximise the opportunity to grow to become a pride in themselves, family, community, and society at large.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]