Financial challenge almost crushed my academic ambition –Ishola, LAUTECH medical graduate with eight distinctions
After spending 10 years instead of six years, which is the normal duration to study medicine, due to incessant industrial actions by school workers, 28-year-old Stephen Adedokun Ishola graduated from the Department of Medicine and Surgery in Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso, Oyo State with remarkable results. In this interview with TUNDE AJAJA, he speaks on the hurdles he had to cross to achieve this feat

You had distinction in eight out of your 10 courses; could you tell us more about that feat?

Of the 10 courses we did, I had distinction in anatomy, biochemistry, physiology, pathology, pharmacology, obstetrics and gynecology, community medicine and surgery. The other two where I didn’t make distinction were medicine, where I had 69.52 per cent and paediatrics, where I had 61.94 per cent. Overall, I thank God for the outcome because He made it possible.

But to have such a result implies that you must have done some things differently from others, apart from believing in God. What were the special efforts, sacrifices and extra commitments you put in?

Basic principles, like ‘Give and it shall be given unto you, good measure, pressed down, shaken together and running over…” It’s a Bible passage people readily cite when talking about the need to give to others. But its application goes beyond the need to imbibe the spirit of giving. I would relate that to my academic work in two ways. The first is that I tried my best to help others understand what I knew, and from that you tend to learn more and I feel that the joy of impacting others positively can be very rewarding too. On the other hand, hard work is very important, and what you give to it determines the kind of feedback you would get. So, I didn’t joke with my academic work. Also, I love a Napoleon Hill’s quote that says: ‘Whatever the mind can conceive and believe, it can achieve.’ I wrote my expectation in 2012 to have what I coded ‘DATA 16’, which meant to have Distinction All Through and to graduate in 2016. Though I had eight out of 10 and I graduated in 2018, I’m still grateful to God who made it happen. Only God deserves the praise, and I’m glad that my long stay in the school was not in vain.

You spent 10 years instead of six years in school. What was responsible for that?

Industrial actions of various forms caused the delay and that experience was the same for all of us in my class. The first was the strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities at the national level, which lasted for six months. That was in 2009. It was followed by the ownership crisis almost everyone familiar with LAUTECH is aware of, and then we had some internal industrial actions. All those issues put together made up the 10 years that I eventually spent in the university, not that I had to retake any examination.

Given the delay, were there times you were despaired and thought of seeking transfer to another school?

Yes, I contemplated it but the thought came late. I thought so deeply about it anytime I looked at my colleagues that left us, at different levels, and they only had to sacrifice one to two years but they ended up graduating before us. So, I thought of changing too but the fact that most Nigerian universities wouldn’t accept transfers caused me to drop the idea. Also, I wasn’t really sure I wanted to go and start afresh, because I was financially constrained and then we had gone far already; we were in our fourth year. It was a trying period but God saw us through.

What kept you going all that time, especially seeing your mates in other schools graduating and even practising?

Seeing my senior colleagues that went through a similar challenge graduate from the same Alma Mater and despite the challenges, they moved on and were doing so well. That was enough to keep me going, because I simply learnt that the challenge would not be there forever and there would be a time that I would graduate too. Several admonitions from religious leaders also helped to douse the depressive feeling.

Have you always wanted to study medicine?

No, I was made to study the course. Initially, I wanted to study electrical electronics engineering, but my uncle and some of my teachers in secondary school encouraged me to give medicine a thought. Now, I have developed interest in it and I’m enjoying it. So, there is no regret.

Generally, people see medicine as a tough course, how easy or difficult was it to make distinction in eight of your 10 courses?

It definitely wasn’t an easy task, but with God, nothing is impossible. I spent several holidays in school, trying to cover the syllabus and I had to let go of several extra-curricular activities, which of course were pleasurable, but could have been huge distractions. Then, I have come to see medicine as a course that is easy to understand, even though it is voluminous and it can be overwhelming. However, I think it is worthy of note that medicine requires one to keep reading over and over. A way around this is joint work; discussion. This is a time-tested approach that helps to retain volume of information.

Would you say you are a genius?

Not at all; I’m not, and that was why I said give and it shall be given unto you. I worked hard and with the help of God, it was only understandable to reap the reward of that hard work.

People say only the very brilliant can study medicine. From your experience, is that true?

This is far from the truth. Medicine is for those who are consistent. Like I said earlier, it wasn’t easy, but with the help of God, consistency and staying faithful to basic principles for academic excellence, one would scale the hurdles.

Were there things you had to stop doing to focus more on your studies?

Yes, I worked as an electronics appliance repairer during my primary and secondary school days to make money to meet my financial needs, but I had to stop, which of course came with its attendant dire consequences. It really affected my finances but I had to let go. I also decided not to be in any serious relationship until after graduation. I believe those things helped eventually, because I made a decision to make first class and I knew I had to work towards it. I planned it, wrote it out, like the Bible said in Habakkuk 2 verse 2, and then I prayed over it and I acted on it. Interestingly, I got marginal first class; 4.53, in my first year, and I simply worked harder.

Have you at anytime been coerced into being serious when you were young or your hard work has always been self-driven?

My first taste of getting first position was incited by the promise of being given a bicycle if I got the first position. That was in primary one. I got the first position, but I didn’t get the bicycle (laughs). I felt bad though, but I was made the class captain because of that; and I got a prize during the end of the year party. Also, the expectation of textbooks as prize for being the best pupil per subject also helped my drive to want to be the best, and that zeal has spread to everything I do.

What was your reading schedule like?

I’m an early bird; I wake up as early as possible, pray and study the scripture and start reading at least two hours before going for lectures. I had plans of what to read before retiring to bed at night and I made sure I maximised every opportunity. However, no night reading except I needed to make up for deficiencies here and there. I think it’s always best to understand oneself and take good advantage of that.

Looking at the feat you recorded, have you always had such impressive performance in your previous schools, and in the external examinations you took?

Yes, I almost always took first position in my primary school, and secondary school heightened it. I took the first position from Junior Secondary School 1 to JSS3 and from Senior Secondary School 1 to SS3. In the West African Senior School Certificate Examination, I had eight A’s in Mathematics, Further Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Economics, Geography and Agricultural Science, but I had B3 in English Language. In the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination, I scored 283 and I didn’t have any delay in getting university admission. I got admitted in 2008, the same year that I left secondary school.

What was it like the first time you worked on a cadaver?

There wasn’t much to worry about. We were adequately prepared for it and at the end of the exercise; it only made life to appear as vanity.

What part of medicine did you find most interesting?

Physiology; it allows for reasoning. One can synthesise any information from pure understanding.

From all you have learnt about the human body, what amazes you most and which of your courses did you love most?

The most amazing part is the collaboration among our diverse body organs, all functioning as a single unit. And cardiology interests me a lot. With the stethoscope alone, one can save a heart from being in need of valve replacement.

If you would do your residency programme, what aspect of medicine would you want to specialise in?

That would be cardiothoracic surgery, which basically is the field of medicine involved in surgical treatment of organs inside the thorax (chest); generally treatment of conditions of the heart (heart disease) and lungs (lung disease).

Was there any challenge, like finance, you faced as an undergraduate?

Yes, financial challenge almost crushed me. Cassava flakes (garri) and yam (from our farm) were my regular food for a long time. I was practically malnourished, and it got to a time I couldn’t read clearly because of the poor nutrition, but thank God I survived it.

How then did your family receive the news that you had such a beautiful result?

They were full of joy. Actually, they didn’t have any idea that I was having that kind of performance; I never shared my results in the university to them at home. I only used to tell them that I passed, but from my primary and secondary school records, it wasn’t a surprise to them. I lost my dad in my fourth year, so it was basically my mum and siblings.

Did you have time for social activities or it was only about your studies?

I didn’t have any tangible social activity in school, maybe because it wasn’t my priority.

What were your most memorable moments?

The most memorable moment I had was when my first MBBS result was released and I had 3/3 distinctions. The bad moment was when my paediatrics head of department pegged the maximum mark obtainable in a clinical end-of-posting exam at 53 per cent. I saw my hope of distinction in paediatrics hit a dead end.

What are your career aspirations?

I wish to be a specialist and still combine practice with lecturing. By this, I mean I wish to become a cardiothoracic surgeon, while still taking students in anatomy courses.

Did you win any award or scholarship as an undergraduate?

Yes, I won Oke Ogun scholarship, which was put together by some prominent persons from that area of Oyo State. It really helped me and I was able to buy books and the things I needed. I really appreciate what they did.

What fond memories of your growing up do you still have?

My attempt at purchasing textbooks by working at my uncle’s workshop to pay the bookstore owner daily until the textbooks were fully paid for was like a game. That is one experience I won’t forget.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]