Anambra College of Education student commits suicide over fees
Tony Okafor, Awka

A 29-year-old student of Nwafor-Orizu College of Education, Nsugbe, in the Anambra East Local Government Area, Philip Chinedu, has reportedly committed suicide over alleged high tuition fee.

The deceased, who lived off-campus, was found hanged on a ceiling fan in his room at about 8.40pm.

READ ALSO: Man bags 15 years imprisonment for forgery

Southern City News gathered that the deceased, who was a native of Eziowelle in the Idemili North Local Government Area of the state, was a 200 level student of the institution.

The incident, it was learnt, had caused panic among both students and teachers of the school, who had yet to come to terms with the incident.

A source told our correspondent that the late Philip had complained some hours before the story of his death was made public about high tuition fee in the college.

“No suicide note was found on him, but I think he was somewhat sad recently over his inability to meet up with payment of school fees and such sundry issues,” the source stated.

The state Police Public Relations Officer, Haruna Mohammed, confirmed the incident, disclosing that the corpse of the victim had been deposited in a morgue for autopsy.

Mohammed said, “One Obinna Joseph, a student of the College of Education Nsugbe, reported that on same date at about 8pm, he returned to his hostel, which is off-campus at Nsugbe and found his roommate hanged dead on the ceiling fan inside the room.

“Upon the receipt of the complaint, the scene was visited by police detectives attached to the 3.3 Division led by the DPO, CSP Sunday Irek, and the victim was taken to Apex Hospital, where he was confirmed dead by a medical doctor.”

READ ALSO: Ex-Eagles midfielder charged with bribery

Mohammed added that the case was being investigated to ascertain circumstances surrounding the incident.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]