250 Bayelsa teachers undergo training in English, others
Simon Utebor, Yenagoa

About 250 teachers, drawn from various secondary schools in Bayelsa State, are participating in a six-week training programme in English Language, Mathematics, Basic Sciences and Basic Technology.

The training, our correspondent gathered, is being organised by the Nigerian Content Development and Management Board in partnership with the state Ministry of Education.

The teachers were formally handed over by the Ministry of Education to the University of Africa, Toru-Orua and the Teacher Training Registration and Certification Board during the week for the commencement of the training.

Speaking at the event held in Yenagoa, the state capital, the Commissioner for Education, Mr Jonathan Obuebite, commended the state government for backing the ministry to achieve the feat.

Obuebite said the programme was another proof of Governor Seriake Dickson’s commitment to educational development in the state.

He noted that the training was centered on the teachers, whom he described as the critical aspect of learning, because a good teacher could only produce good pupils and vice versa.

The commissioner thanked the TTRCB for choosing Bayelsa State and the University of Africa for hosting the programme.

He congratulated the trainees and advised them to take the training seriously.

Responding, NCDMB Consultant, Dr Tonye Imaselcha, thanked the state government, the MOE, the TTRCB and the management and staff of UAT for their support, saying that their gesture was worthy of commendation.

Tonye said that she was hopeful that at the end of the training, both parties would be elated.

The event had in attendance the Chairperson of TTRCB, Dr Stella Ugolo; the Vice-Chancellor, UAT, Prof. Valentine Aletor, management and staff of the university, among others. Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]