Dangote Cement awards scholarships to 115 Ogun students
Samuel Awoyinfa, Abeokuta

As part of its corporate social responsibility, Dangote Cement Plc, Ibese Plant, Ogun State, has awarded scholarships valued at the sum of N25m to students of tertiary institutions and secondary school pupils in 15 host communities in the state.

A total of 100 students in various tertiary institutions and 15 pupils benefitted from the company’s gesture. The beneficiaries are from the Ewekoro and Yewa North Local Government areas of the state.

The Manager of the Ibese Plant, Armando Martinez, said the gesture was part of the company’s resolve to encourage the young ones to go to school and in return, to rebuild their respective communities.

He said the company believed in building a robust relationship with the host communities and it would not take them for granted.

He said, “We cherish education and one of the ways through which we can impact our society is to give unfettered access to education which is why we are giving them scholarship.

“This is an opportunity that every beneficiary should make use of. We have decided to award scholarships to a total of 115 students from 15 host communities.”

The General Manager, Human Asset Management and Administration of Dangote Cement Plc, Abdulmalik Shehu, urged the beneficiaries to shun all acts that could truncate their education and destinies.

He appealed to them to justify the investment placed on their education by coming out with flying colours at the end of their courses.

He said, “Don’t do drugs. Don’t give your parents sleepless nights. Be a pride to your parents. Work hard and be good ambassadors of Dangote Cement, these host communities and your families.

“When you graduate, think out of the box, opportunities may arrive for you anytime. Employment is no more readily available for people anymore.

“How you use what you have learnt as students is what matters. The application of what you have learnt should be your focus.”

The Olu of Imasayi, Oba Gbadebo Oni, who appreciated the cement company, said the gesture definitely would build up the youth ‘in our communities to face future challenges.”

He said the technical colleges built by the company also created opportunities for the youth in the communities to be trained and employed.

One of the recipients, Korede Akinsanya, a post-graduate student of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, said the scholarship award would help her and others to concentrate on their studies. Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]