Umeh awards scholarships to 84 undergraduates
Samuel Awoyinfa Abeokuta

The Vice-Chancellor of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, Prof. Kolawole Salako, has said that the institution is hopeful that the Federal Government will change its decision to scrap management courses in specialised institutions, including FUNAAB.

Salako said this during a courtesy visit to the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Ogun State Council secretariat, Oke Ilewo, Abeokuta last Thursday.

The vice-chancellor said that some prominent Nigerians, including the Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, had already intervened in the matter. He noted that the monarch had written a letter to President Muhammadu Buhari pleading for a reversal of the decision.

He said, “The College of Management Sciences was introduced to provide an opportunity for students in our catchment area to realise their dreams in pursuing those management courses offered. It is not every eligible student that will get admitted in a given year because each institution has its carrying capacity.

“It would have been better if we did not start the courses. If the decision to scrap them is not reversed, the lecturers in the college may soon lose their jobs.

“Besides, what will the students, who will eventually graduate from the college, make reference to? People will tell them that the college has been scrapped.

“We are hopeful that the Federal Government will look into this issue, with a view to reversing the scrapping order. We have the moral support of some prominent Nigerians.”

Salako who was accompanied by the head of the Public Relations Unit, Dr Linda Onwuka, Kola Adepoju, and the chief security officer, Peter Bolarinwa, commended the journalists in the state for partnering the institution in its development strides.

The chairman, NUJ, Ogun State Council, Wole Shokunbi, who described the VC as a media-friendly administrator, said the media in the state would continue to work in harmony with the FUNAAB authorities.

It would be recalled that in 2017, the Federal Government, through the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, had announced the scrapping of management courses in specialised universities across the country.

The Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, had then directed the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board to delete all such courses on its portal, while the government asked the affected institutions to stick to the core mandates for which they were set up.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]