Terrorism keeping girls out of school in North-East – Report
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

An organisation based in the United Kingdom, known as Plan International, has said in a report that female pupils in the North-East states of Borno and Adamawa have been unable to continue their education due to the fear of terrorist attacks and kidnappers, as well as poverty.

According to the report, titled, ‘Adolescent girls in crisis: Voices from the Lake Chad basin’, only a few girls, who still attend government-owned schools in the North-East, do it in fear, while others lack the financial means.

Our correspondent learnt that a research conducted by the organisation focused on adolescent girls in the Maiduguri, Mubi and Dallori areas of Borno State, Adamawa State and as far as neighbouring Cameroon, Niger and Chad.

In the report, made available to our correspondent on Thursday, some affected girls claimed that persistent attacks by Boko Haram terrorists on government-owned secondary schools in their areas had discouraged them from going back to school.

The report partly reads, “Some respondents in Nigeria described how their schools were burnt down, while others in Dallori aged between 13 and 14 expressed a desire to go school but stated the inability of their parents to afford the fees. Beyond economic barriers, the distance required to travel to school and the fear of attack by armed groups were highlighted as reasons why they were unable to access education.

“Adolescent girls in the Bahuli area of Borno expressed the fear of attack and of kidnapping. This underscores the challenges of school safety and security risks facing the girls in their quest to attend school. Adolescent girls in Nigeria also highlighted the need for more teachers to enable them raise the quality of education they receive.”

The Director, Plan International Nigeria, Dr Hussaini Abdu, said the report presented a “more disturbing situation,” noting that the issues in the North-East called for greater humanitarian interventions.

“The report shows that many of the girls were forced into early marriages or transactional sex and over a 10th had been pregnant. We look forward to what needs to be done and to a greater commitment to response more effectively to the peculiar situation of the adolescent girls in the Lake Chad Basin area,” Abdul added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]