FG should spend more on education —Shadimu
Tare Youdeowei

A member of the House of Representative, Oshodi and Isolo Federal Constituency, Hon. Mutiu Shadimu, has called on the Federal Government to allocate more funds to the education sector so that youths in the country can access basic quality education.

Speaking during the 4th edition the Shadimu Mutiu Free Summer Coaching and Award ceremony held in Oshodi, Lagos, Shadimu said that if education given priority, education would help to check corruption, alleviate poverty, reduce illiteracy and serve to empower youths to bring about meaningful development in the nation.

He said, “Education is important in curbing poverty, stopping illiteracy and empowering our youth to bring about meaningful development. We appreciate the importance of education in the human and national development of a nation. Education acts as a pivot through which every ambition could be achieved.

“It is a tool for freeing the enslaved and gaining economic, financial and political freedom for the community. Education is the basis on which everybody can build their lives. Through education, everyone can be trained to be economically, financially and politically useful and a basis to which we can build the future of the country,” he added.

He, however, lamented the state of education in the country, saying, “The standard still falls short of global requirements. This is a big threat to our development as a nation. It is important we start our education at the grassroots because basic education is key. The government should allocate more funding to educating school children. They should get more involved in improving the standard of education to curb emigration in search of a better education system. The sector should be elevated to global standard to help move the country forward.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]