NGO faults FG on poor teachers’ welfare
Peter Dada, Akure

A Non-Governmental Organisation, the Teachers Without Blemish Foundation, has said that failure on the part of the Federal Government to improve the welfare of teachers and expose them to periodic training poses a major challenge to the education sector.

The organisation warned that unless the goverment addressed the problem, all attempts geared toward improving the standard of education would continue to fail.

The President of the organisation, Mrs Titilayo Fayoriju, stated this during the inauguration of the foundation in Akure, the capital of Ondo State.

Fayoriju also blamed the falling standard of education in the country on the inability of the government and other stakeholders in the education sector to introduce the right policies and tools for total empowerment of teachers.

She said, “It is a universal fact that the teaching profession is the mother of all professions and it must be given proper attention if the nation wants to witness rapid development.

“We all know that the fulcrum of any nation’s development is education. It is also the foundation upon which all other sectors are built .

“If the foundation in Nigeria’s education is faulty and weak, and if nothing is done to rebuild it, the hope of the unborn children will not be guaranteed and they will not forgive us for it. Examination malpractice is the order of the day and pupils also believe their success depends on it.”

Fayoriju also said that teachers should not be left in the classroom for years with the old methodologies of teaching, stressing that this was one of the reasons the foundation was established.

“I dream of an organisation where teachers will have a life-long access to quality education and retraining opportunities,” she said.

According to her, the foundation has initiated series of partnerships with national, international and inter-governmental organisations in order to access opportunities for teachers and allow them to measure with their colleagues globally.

She said, “We have set aside series of activities and programs in accordance with the mission of the foundation to attract both local and foreign funding for the organisation.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]