One in three children is out of school – UNICEF
The United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund has said that one in three children and young people between ages five and 17 living in countries affected by conflict or disaster are not in school.

The figure, which amounts to 104 million, accounts for more than a third of the global out-of-school population, according to a new UNICEF report. “In total, 303 million 5-17 year-olds are out of school worldwide,” the report said.

The report notes that one in five young people aged 15 to 17 years old living in countries affected by conflict or disaster have never entered any school, and two in five of them have never completed primary school.

The report titled, A future stolen: young and out-of-school, looked at the education situation of children and young people from pre-primary to upper secondary age across all countries, including those affected by humanitarian emergencies.

Speaking on the situation, UNICEF Executive Director, Ms Henrietta Fore, said, “When a country is hit by conflict or disaster, its children and young people are victimized twice. In the near term, their schools are damaged, destroyed, occupied by military forces or even deliberately attacked, and they join the millions of young people out of school. As the years progress, they seldom return. In the long term they and the countries they live in will continue to face perpetuating cycles of poverty.”

With less than four per cent of global humanitarian appeals dedicated to education, the report called for more investment in quality education where children and young people can learn in a safe environment, from pre-primary to upper-secondary, in countries affected by complex humanitarian emergencies and protracted crises.

The report, launched ahead of the 73rd session of the United Nations General Assembly, looked at the global situation of out-of-school children and young people, highlighting that across the world, poverty remained the most significant barrier to education globally with the poorest primary school age children four times more likely to be out of school compared to their peers from the richest households.

It also stated that with current trends, the number of 10 to 19 year-olds would rise to more than 1.3 billion by 2030, an increase of eight per cent.

To this, Fore said, “Providing this future workforce with quality education and better employment prospects will yield greater economic and social dividends. This is a critical moment in history. If we act wisely and urgently, we can empower and skill young people to be prepared to create peaceful and prosperous societies. The alternative is too bleak. We cannot afford to fail,” Fore submitted.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]