FG lauds Larfarge National Literacy Competition
Tare Youdeowei

The Federal Government, through the Federal Ministry of Education’s Universal Basic Education Commission, has lauded the efforts of Lafarge Africa Plc towards advancing literacy in primary schools.

This was made public during a briefing held in Ikeja, Lagos on Wednesday, where the company stated that its choice of topic for the fifth Lafarge National Literacy Competition was designed to take the country’s education sector out of crises.

The company, through its Director of Communications, Public Affairs and Sustainable Development, Mrs Folashade Ambrose-Medebem, said that one of its goals was to see how stakeholders could work together to improve Nigeria’s education system.

She said, “The company’s understanding of the key role that education plays in the development of any society inspired the need to engage the leaders of tomorrow on critical literacy skills at an early stage. The Lafarge National Literacy Competition is part of the company’s overall sustainable development strategy hinged on climate, circular economy, water and nature, as well as people and communities. The literacy competition finds expression in the people and communities pillar.”

On the competition, Ambrose-Medebem disclosed that it would feature all the 36 states of the federation, with a boy and girl representing each state.

She said, “The competition is organised in partnership with the respective State Universal Basic Education Boards in all 36 states and the FCT, with the support of Ovie Brume Foundation.

“Regional run-offs across the geopolitical zones of the country; Abuja, Enugu, Cross River, Ogun, Kano and Gombe will hold in October. The grand finale of the 5th LANLC will hold on November 15 in Lagos. It is for public primary school pupils in classes five and six between ages nine and 13.”

Speaking on the company’s effort at bridging the literacy gap, Head, Sustainability and Brand, Mrs Temitope Oguntokun said that, “Lafarge has so far impacted the lives of 78,889 pupils directly and 376,422 indirectly. From 2017 till date, the company has spent at least N661m on social investment, while education got more than N299m of that amount. It cuts across at least 15 schools per state and 544 out of 744 local government areas. We are doing this because we want to bridge the gap in education.”

Lauding Lafarge for touching lives, the Director, SUBEB Lagos State, Mrs Bunmi Oteju, enthused, “Lagos has won twice and we look forward to winning this year. Our pupils look forward to this competition because it assures them that their efforts towards getting an education are not wasted. We solidly endorse and are behind Lafarge.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]