Why you mispronounce hyperbole
Akeem Lasisi; [email protected]

Many of us like the word, ‘hyperbole’, despite the fact that not all of us are poets. We use it regularly because it helps us to amplify or polish the messages we are passing across.

The fact is that, naturally, human beings like to overstate facts. So, we find a good instrument in hyperbole, which is the deliberate exaggeration of facts. The Cambridge English Dictionary defines it as ‘a way of speaking or writing that makes someone or something sound bigger, better, more etc.’ than it is. Consider the following examples:

I am so hungry that I can swallow a mountain now.

The place was so dark that my hand could not find its way to my mouth.

Is it possible for anyone to swallow a mountain? Is it possible for one’s hand or fingers to ever miss the road to the mouth? These are simply some examples of hyperbole.

Yet, as sweet and popular as the figure of speech can be, it is pervasively mispronounced – from generations to generations. Even many of our teachers, who introduce figurative expressions to us in foundation schools and beyond, initiate us into the hall of fame of those who articulate it poorly. While teaching us the likes of simile, metaphor and personification, they call it ‘hy-per-bol’. In many cases, the l after the o is even lost. So, you hear them say, ‘hai-pa-bo’.

Because I do not want this lesson to be cumbersome, I will not dwell much on the fact that per is also not supposed to be pa in pronunciation because the supposed a vowel in er is the weak type.

The main aspect of the pervasive mispronunciation I want to focus on has to do with how we deny ‘hyperbole’ the /li/ sound that should end it. Most times, when people pronounce it, they stop at ‘l’ – the way they do with role, tadpole, scroll etc. This is wrong because the ‘e’ that ends ‘hyperbole’ must be articulated as it is not a silent letter or sound. So, the word should come out as hahy-pur-buh-lee, not hahy- pur-bol. Or,worse, hahy-pa-bo.

Put differently, there are four syllables in the word, whereas many people pronounce three!

Hy-per-bol (Wrong, three syllables)

Hy-per-bo-le (Correct, four syllables)

Let us do a short exercise at this point. First, pronounce the word the way you used to do. Now, pronounce it the correct way you have just learnt. Great. Don’t worry if you have not mastered it. With more practice, you will get better.

I believe the time I have spent explaining the correct concept – and the stress I am taking you through – is worth it, considering the fact that there are other words that are similarly mispronounced. One of them that we shall briefly discuss is epitome, which refers to the best example of a particular type or thing. Curiously, a lot of people pronounce the word as if it has three syllables, whereas, it has four. It is not ‘e-pi-tom’. It is ‘e-pit-o-me’.

Two things are usually wrong with the articulation of the word. First, the letter e that begins it, by the most popular standard, should not sound as the one that begins egg. It should sound as the one that begins each. The difference is that while the i in each is the long type (/i:/), the one that begins epitome is short. In other words, the first two syllables of the word are not to be pronounced as eh-pi, but something like ih-pi.

Secondly, because there are four syllables in the word (not three), its pronunciation is not ‘ih-pi-thum’. Rather, it is like ‘ih-pit-uh-mee’, transcribed as /pt..mi/.

Prof. Wole Soyinka is an ‘e-pe-tom’ of courage. (Wrong)

Prof. Wole Soyinka is an ‘e-pi-to-me’ of courage. (Correct)

More on at all costs

Last week, I stressed the fact that the correct expression, when you are bent on achieving something – regardless of the price or effort demanded – is to say you want to do it at all costs. I noted that what is popularly said, which is at all cost, is erroneous. In the course of the week, an expert noted that a popular dictionary recognises ‘at all cost’ as well. I had to profusely thank him for the observation, while also calling your attention to the development.

Yet, I will always advise you to go with popular usages because this is the safest thing to do. So, you can always go for at all costs in the context. Of course, I hope you remember other major points raised last week: to buy on hire purchase, not hired purchase; pay by instalments, not pay instalmentally.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]