Higher education’s key role in sustainable development
The United Nations has defined sustainable development as “development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.”

As such, a sustainable development not only deals with environmental issues but economic, social and cultural issues as well. Given the increased demands placed on societies and the environment due to, among other factors, increased human migration, increased urbanisation and industrialisation as well as the ongoing depletion of non-renewable resources, it is clear that global action is needed to create a more sustainable future.

Given its primary role as knowledge producer, higher education can serve as a powerful means to help create a more sustainable future. Thus, the concept of ‘education for sustainable development’ has become, in recent years, one of the core educational initiatives to help address many of the problems associated with human development.

Indeed, higher education’s role in creating a sustainable future will presumably take on a greater importance as the world continues to become increasingly globalised and interdependent.

Access and sustainable development

According to UNESCO, education for sustainable development “empowers people to change the way they think and work towards a sustainable future”. It therefore involves making access to good-quality education available at every stage of life.

More specifically, it involves educating students on the necessity of sustainable development by integrating sustainable development issues into all aspects of teaching, research and service.

This means reorienting the education system at all levels to help people think and behave in ways that foster a more sustainable planet (for example, global citizenship, recycling, climate change, biodiversity, renewable energy and social responsibility).

In practice, it means equipping students with the requisite knowledge, skills, attitudes and values to create a sustainable future. To that end, students should cultivate critical and creative thinking skills, engage in authentic interdisciplinary learning activities and develop a value system that emphasises responsibility to self, others and the planet.

Thus, education for sustainable development and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) go hand in hand. Indeed, an increasing number of universities are offering degree and certificate programmes in sustainable development.

Global problems require global action

In the current era, we face huge global problems (for example, the refugee crisis, global climate change, extreme poverty and illiteracy) and, presumably, these problems are best addressed through universal education and international cooperation.

Higher education not only has a role to play in that effort but it also has the capacity to play a leading role. These issues, and the factors driving these issues, have been discussed in previous University World News articles.

With a target date of 2030, the UN, through their SDG initiative, has set 17 broad and interdependent goals that are necessary for creating a sustainable future on our planet. The SDG initiative is a concerted universal agenda by the 193 member states of the UN and the global civil society and it represents a strategic framework and a bold normative vision of the future.

Culled from www,worlduniversitynews.com

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]