Edo teachers postpone planned strike
Alexander Okere, Benin

Teachers in public schools, under the Edo State chapter of the Nigeria Union of Teachers, on Thursday said they had suspended their plan to embark on an industrial action.

The State Chairman of the NUT, Mr Pius Okhueleigbe, told The PUNCH that the plan was been put on hold till September 30, following an appeal by Governor Godwin Obaseki for more time to address the issues raised.

Okhueleigbe, however, said that Obaseki promised to pay the N25,000 minimum wage approved by the immediate past governor, Mr. Adams Oshiomhole.

He also said that the governor directed that an ad hoc committee, comprising the head of service and representatives from the Ministry of Education and State Universal Basic Education Board, be set up to assess the areas of contention and report back on or before the end of the month.

The union had threatened to go on strike on Friday in protest against the alleged failure of the state government to improve the welfare of its members.

It called for the financial implementation of the 2013 to 2015 promotion of primary school teachers, with the arrears of January to July, 2018, and the immediate implementation of the approved N25,000 minimum wage to all primary school teachers, among other demands.

It also urged the government to begin the recruitment of new teachers to fill the vacant positions in primary and secondary schools.

In a bid to avert the strike, Governor Godwin Obaseki held a meeting with leaders of the union at the Government House on Tuesday where the issues were tabled before him.

Okhueleige, who spoke to our correspondent on the telephone, explained, “The response of the state governor, in respect to our issues, was reviewed. The union decided to put the planned strike on hold till the end of this month because the state government appealed to us to give them time to look into all the grey areas in our promotions with the view of resolving it.

“He equally promised to pay the N25,000 minimum wage effective from August this year and it will be paid along with our September salary.”

The state chairman further stated that the union called for the suspension of the national housing scheme and a refund of monies deducted from the teachers’ entitlements without their consent.

He added, “Before any teacher can key into that scheme, they should give us time to sensitise the teachers about the scheme. The forms (for the scheme) should be brought to the teachers to fill.

“Any teacher that fills the form and submits it would be assumed to have taken up the scheme. It should not be compulsory.

On the request for the recruitment of personnel, he said, “The governor said that we should give him time to know the number of teachers in Edo State, the number of classrooms in the schools as well as the number of pupils and teachers in each school. He said that the statistics would give him an insight before he can recruit teachers.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]