Ignore question papers on social media, WAEC warns candidates
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The West African Examination Council has warned candidates sitting its September 2018 Private Examination to ignore past questions being posted by fraudsters on the social media.

The council said the fraudsters, for an example, posted questions papers of Principles of Cost Accounting written in Sierra Leone and The Gambia on Wednesday as the Financial Accounting paper for Nigeria on Thursday, in order to extort money from unsuspecting candidates.

The WAEC Head of Public Affairs, Mr Demian Ojijeogu, in a release on Thursday, stated that the activities of fraudsters were capable of jeopardising the performance of candidates in the ongoing West African Senior Secondary Certificate Examination for the Private Candidates.

Ojijeogu said the fraudsters posted the fake papers “on a social media platform, Whatsapp, and some criminal websites.

He said, “Our attention has been drawn to the activities of fraudsters that are capable of jeopardising the performance of gullible candidates in the ongoing examination for private candidates, 2018 – Second series in Nigeria. The Council has observed with dismay that past questions were being posted via WhatsApp and criminal websites by fraudulent individuals, which they claim are that of yet to be written papers.

“For instance, the question paper for Principles of Cost Accounting that was written in Sierra Leone and The Gambia on Wednesday are being circulated by these criminally minded elements for candidates in Nigeria as Financial Accounting, the paper slated for Thursday.

“The success of our candidates is our major concern and the council wishes to advise all candidates not to fall a prey to these fraudsters but rather concentrate on their studies.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]