Online resources every student should have to succeed
Tope Oluwabiyi

Many students may think that the internet mostly serves to entertain and provide a platform for social media interaction, however, there are thousands of websites designed specifically for learning new skills and even helping students study for exams.

While some come with a download fee, several others are free and can be downloaded from application stores across operating systems, as well as devices.

One of such resources is Academia.edu. It is an American social networking website that allows users to create a profile, upload their work, tag certain interests and tap into large networks of people with similar research interests around the globe.

According to online sources, the site recorded 47 million unique visitors per month as of December 2017 and over 20 million uploaded texts. This speaks of the volume of research work to learn from, possibly build upon or get project ideas from, as a budding final year or postgraduate student.

Being that everyone is not gifted in the art of writing, Grammarly has become a necessary part of studying at different levels of education. Grammarly has come to be an essential tool for checking punctuations and grammar of write-ups, particularly for that assignment to be submitted to the lecturer, or that chapter the project supervisor needs to pass so one can go to the next stage.

Study Stack is part of the list as it allows users to create flashcard sets and use what others have already made. When a card is flipped, you can choose whether you got it right or wrong. Wrong cards will be repeated until you have learned it, making it a great tool for memorization.

Said to be a great resource for learning definitions and terms, Memorize.com comes recommended. With this resource, users can post articles, images, diagrams and share general information on any topic. The site also encourages working together to create the best learning tools for studying.

There is also Evernote. Since studying can sometimes cut across different platforms, with Evernote all notes, information and research can be pooled in one place. It is essentially an organisational tool that synchronises your information across computers and phones, allows sharing with other users, gathers web-clips and creates all from one central platform.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]