Sexual predators: Experts caution schools on teachers’ recruitment
Tare Youdeowei

On Monday, the men of the Enugu State Police Command arrested the head teacher of a primary school in the Enugu-Ezike area of the state, Mr Nathaniel Idoko, for defiling four female pupils between the ages of five and six. Idoko blamed his crime on ‘Satan’.

From 2013 to date, there have been at least 19 reported cases of teachers sexually assaulting their pupils. A total of 39 pupils; 35 girls and five boys, across eight states were raped, ‘fingered’ or sodomised. One of the predators had defiled as many as seven girls. News reports claimed that one of the victims was even infected with a sexually transmitted disease.

The children, aged between two and 14 years at the time, were pupils of private schools, except one public school in Epe, Lagos State. Most of the incidents took place in the schools’ premises, save for two occuring in either the victim’s residence or that of the accused.

Experts argue that these incidents could have been avoided, if school proprietors had taken certain measures into consideration during the recruitment of teachers.

The Director-General of MYK Crime Control Services, Mr Dayo Oshunmakinde, in an interview with our correspondent, noted that many private school administrators lacked proper understanding of the necessary safety measures that they could have deployed when recruiting teachers.

“I can say, categorically that most schools’ recruitment policies do not always reflect the importance of pupils’ safety, which can be a threat to pupils even within the school environment,” Oshunmakinde said.

He lamented that most school owners had formed the habit of bringing external educators to assess applicants, as opposed to the conduct of thorough background checks of the same applicants.

Oshunmakinde, therefore, urged schools to use recruitment guidelines from intelligence bodies as an alternative to employing the services of formal recruitment agencies or specialist.

He added that schools should investigate applicants well beyond listed references, as well as check criminal background. “Investigating if applicants have been previously convicted and if there are any possible pending charges on child abuse, should not be too much. Schools should go outside the scope of references by contacting more people, asking searching questions related to children’s safety and the reasons for leaving the previous place of work. This should be done in addition to verifying qualifications,” he said.

Also, a human resource practitioner, Mrs Ronke Fasheru, suggested that school owners and administrators should go as far as interviewing the applicant’s last line manager to determine if the teacher is fit to be employed.

Fasheru who has been in the business of recruiting staff for the past 10 years, added that “male teachers can be in a school system but they shouldn’t be made class teachers in younger classes for pupils aged between zero and seven, because they might take advantage of the children and threaten them.

“Schools should hire passionate teachers, not just qualified teachers. Not making money as school is not enough reason to hire people that are not qualified. Let us start to hire people who are passionate,” she said.

Corroborating Fasharu, a Consultant Psychiatrist at Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Dr Kehinde Sodimu, in an interview with our correspondent said it could be hard to detect paedophilia since it is not written on people’s faces.

She recommended that schools employ modern instruments like questionnaires, to psychologically assess people.

“With the right questions, within two minutes you can determine, to an extent, the psychological state of an individual,” she stressed.

Also making a case for keeping male teachers, regardless of age and experience, away from female pupils, Shodimu suggested that pupils and teachers should be properly matched.

“For example, you can’t have an all-girl club being advised by a male teacher. If it is a class with more of girls than boys, teachers should be assigned appropriately,” she advised.

The psychiatrist implored parents to go beyond providing money to taking note of names that come up regularly when talking to their children, as she called for the investigation of such persons.

“If a child keeps repeating how a teacher has been focusing attention on him or her, you might want to find out what is happening. Creating that time to ask the child questions is important,” she submitted.

The Administrator of Grace Schools, Mrs Olatokunbo Edun, said that a record of teachers would soon be available to protect pupils from paedophiles.

“The Association of Private Educators of Nigeria is thinking of having a database of teachers because some teachers leave one school and go to another school, Edun stressed.

Edun also called for regular monitoring of activities in schools’ premises.

“Besides the measures that APEN is taking, school administrators have to go around and do more inspection and monitoring. They have to be on their toes all the time. From statistics, there are more men that molest children than women,” she submitted.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]