Lagos, others tax corps members on politics, economy
Tare Youdeowei

The Lagos State Government and the Nigerian Bottling Company, as well as RISE Networks, have urged 500 members of the National Youth Service Corps serving in the state to get involved in politics and entrepreneurship in order to bring about the much-needed economic development.

Speaking during the Mega Youth Conference, held to mark the 2018 United Nations International Youth Day in Lagos, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, said the state government’s involvement in the conference was due to the need to increase jobs and to reduce the crime rate.

Ambode, represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mr Tunji Bello, said, “There cannot be meaningful development if the government fails to invest in its youth. The partnership underlines the commitment of the state to empower youths and grow the economy of the state such that jobs would be created and criminal activities would be reduced in the state.”

Also, addressing the gathering on the essence of the conference, which was themed, ‘Safe Spaces for Youths’ and also held to sensitise the youth in the state on the need to embrace the limitless opportunities available in the country, the Founder of Rise Networks, Mrs Toyosi Akerele-Ogunsiji, said it was aimed at steering the youth in the right direction and to teach them to take charge of their lives.

“The youths cannot afford to fold their arms in the face of limitless opportunities around. That is why we are urging them to get involved in politics and to invest their energy in productive causes that would bring about economic development.”

On his part, the Managing Director, NBC, Mr George Polymenakos, who was represented by Legal, Public Affairs and Communications Director, Mrs Sade Morgan, said that given the level of endless possibilities and aided by the rise of technology in this era, youths should see no limitations in unleashing their potential to bring about needed change and innovation.

“There are challenges in the environment. Therefore, it is imperative for them to brave the odds if they are keen on achieving their dreams. The theme of this year’s International Youth Day ‘Safe Spaces for Youths’ is about motivating young people to engage in sports, governance and cross-border interactions, especially because of the internet and digital penetration, as well as convergence. In NBC we believe in the power of young people, as such we will continue to demonstrate our unwavering commitment to youth development in unequivocal terms,” he said.

In his remarks, a mentor at the workshop, Mr Debola Afolabi, said the programme was critical at this time because many of the participants were young graduates who needed to be equipped with skills such as time and project management.

“The programme has given them what money cannot buy. As someone who knows a lot about skills, keeping to what they have been taught would help them be disciplined and increase their chances of success. More importantly, once they are armed with skills, they can also mentor others. By so doing, they are amplifying the success of the programme and by extension creating opportunities for graduates to tap into.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]