Academia not doing enough for national development –UNIOSUN VC
Olufemi Atoyebi, Ibadan

The Vice-Chancellor of the Osun State University, Prof Olabode Popoola, has said that key players in the academia have not made enough contributions toward the development of Nigeria.

Popoola said this during an event organised by the Sustainable Development Solutions Network Nigeria at the University of Ibadan. The programme was themed, Agenda 2030: Youths in advocacy, solutions and actions towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.

The vice-chancellor noted that instead of conducting cutting edge, practical and physical research, those in the academia had always complained of challenges in funding.

He said, “The problem is beyond funding. It is about what we have failed to do with the little fund that was made available to us. How much grant have we attracted? The Tertiary Education Trust Fund will tell you that it has a pool of money sitting somewhere in Abuja without any application to access them for research purposes. You can blame the academia for this country’s poor performance in the development process and the Sustainable Development Goals.

“At the SDSN, one of the ways to solve the problems is through proper coordination of our programmes. No one gives us money. The youths must be re-oriented about productivity and education. The academia, which I belong to, also needs new orientation. My assessment of that group is sub-optima, in terms of research and teaching. We cannot continue training graduates that will not get jobs.

“Our curriculum is not preparing our graduate for the jobs that will be available in the next five or 10 years. It is beyond coming to the classroom and making first class. The kind of curriculum we operate now will not address our employment crisis. Some educational organisations are trying to address the problems. Centre for Sustainable Development, which belongs to the University of Ibadan, is doing a lot in this direction. The approach it adopts makes it easy for its graduate. Many of CESDEV graduates are not looking for jobs in government establishments; they create jobs locally and globally.”

Popoola added that one of Nigeria’s problems was the belief that money could solve all developmental problems.

“The problem we have in Nigeria is that we throw money into virtually all problems and that is why we are not getting results. Decent jobs are not about government providing the employments, but they are about what we can do by ourselves through innovation and creativity,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]