COEASU wants 2010 pact with FG implemented
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union has asked the Federal Government to implement its 2010 agreement with the union so as to prevent a crisis in the education sector.

The union said it also condemned the “irregularities” in the payment of salaries by various state governments, noting that Osun, Oyo and Ogun states topped the list of indebted states with 36, 12 and 11 months’ fractional salaries, respectively.

The union, in a communiqué made available to our correspondent on Monday, said the Federal Government, while negotiating with academic staff unions of the universities and the polytechnics, had abandoned the implementation of the 2010 agreement it had with COEASU.

The communiqué, released by the National President, Nuhu Ogirima, and General Secretary, Taiwo Olayanju, was issued at the end of the union’s National Executive Council meeting at the Akwa Ibom State College of Education during the week.

The union said that apart from Osun, Oyo and Ogun states, Benue, Kogi, Edo and Abia state governments were also guilty of fractional salaries and non-payment of salary arrears.

The communiqué partly reads, “Given the implication of the persistence of the foregoing situation, the council reiterates the union’s disposition to resort to radical constitutional means to address the issues if the respective governments fail to act.

“The salary indebtedness of states topmost of which is Osun State, with 36 months of fractional salaries; Oyo (12 months), Ogun (11 months), Benue (seven months and portions of four months) is highly inexcusable. Others are; Kogi (four months and portions of four months fractional salaries), Edo and Abia states, with seven months of arrears of salary.”

On the implementation of 65 years’ retirement age and new salary structure by state governments, the union commended states which had complied, while urging those paying fractions of the new salary structure to pay in full.

The union added that it was worried by the continued denial of its members to “appropriate and accruable full salary” by the governments of Edo, Kaduna, Kogi, Nasarawa, Ogun, and Osun states in their respective colleges of education.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]