5,000 out-of-school girls to acquire basic literacy, numeracy skills
Tare Youdeowei

Five thousand out-of-school girls drawn from five local government areas in Lagos State are set to acquire basic literacy, numeracy and life skills at the 113 ENGINE II Learning Centres, recently inaugurated at the Apelehin Primary School, Bariga on Tuesday.

The centres, made available by the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board and the Agency for Mass Education, in conjunction with Mercy Corps and Action Health Incorporated, are part of the Eko Nke Koo (Lagos is Learning) programme aimed at raising the literacy rate from 87 to 97 per cent by giving every Lagos resident the opportunity to learn how to read and write.

About 242 new facilitators are to train the girls for 18 months, as well as provide them with learning materials.

Speaking on the programme, the Special Adviser to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode on Education, Mr Obafela Bank-Olemoh, said, “The inauguration of the ENGINE II Learning Centres not only marks a pivotal point in the lives of 5,000 women having great opportunities to participate in their societies as value-adding individuals. This flag-off also reiterates the fact that partnership works.

“The importance of literacy for all cannot be over-emphasised. The social and economic prosperity of any society rests on its people. And a people can only be as productive as they have access to knowledge and information.”

Stressing that adult literacy had become a necessity in the state, Olemoh added, “When young people lack basic numerical and reading skills, they are robbed of the opportunity to sustain a decent living and contribute productively to society. For Lagos to work, we cannot afford to leave anyone behind on the march to prosperity.

“It is, therefore, a matter of necessity that we give due attention to improving literacy and numeracy rates, as well as the acquisition of life skills among marginalised youths and adults.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]