Bidapoly student killed in clash with commercial bus drivers
Enyioha Opara, Minna

One student of the Federal Polytechnic, Bida in Niger State, has died in a violent clash between some students of the institution and commercial bus drivers, while 10 others are said to be critically injured.

Eye witness accounts claimed that what started as a mild face-off between the drivers and the students degenerated into a full-scale conflict as some natives of Bida vowed to attack students of the polytechnic resident off-campus.

It was gathered that trouble started when some students boarded a commercial vehicle from Minna to Bida at about 11.30 pm on Saturday

Our correspondent learnt that the students had asked the driver to drop them by the gate of the campus, but the driver insisted that the normal bus stop for all commercial vehicles was at the Etsu Garage.

According to eyewitnesses, the driver stood his ground and went on to drop the students at the garage. But immediately they alighted from the vehicle, the students pounced on the driver. The ensuing struggle had attracted other members of the host community who rescued the commercial bus driver from his assailants .

Investigation showed that the students, who were overpowered by the natives, ran to the main campus of the polytechnic for reinforcements. The conflict escalated afterwards and many dangerous weapons were freely used by the combatants on both sides.

Our correspondent gathered that efforts by men of the Vigilante Service in Bida to quell the crisis proved abortive, leading to attacks on innocent passersby and vandalisation of many vehicles.

The Police Public Relations Officer in Niger State, Muhammad Abubakar, when contacted on Monday confirmed the incident, saying that one student of the Department of Public Adiminstration at the polytechnic died during the incident.

Abubakar said the police arrested 13 people and no fewer than seven motorcycles were burnt at the scene of the incident.

He also confirmed that the 10 students of BIDAPOLY were seriously injured and receiving treatment at the Federal Medical Centre, Bida .

“Security has been beefed up in the affected area and 60 policemen have been deployed in the various flashpoints in Bida,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]