Pupils in 16 Nasarawa schools face delayed resumption
Umar Muhammed, Lafia

About 16 primary schools in eight local government areas of Nasarawa State may not resume for a new academic session, as scheduled, due to ongoing reconstruction of dilapidated classroom blocks in the schools.

Pupils in the affected schools, known as Ta’al Modern Schools, investigation shows, may be compelled to stay at home for a while longer, as there is no indication that the contractors handling the rehabilitation projects will complete their tasks before September 15, 2018, which is the official date of resumption for the new academic session.

The classroom blocks under rehabilitation, located in the Karu, Keffi, Kokona, Akwanga, Nassarawa-Eggon, Lafia, Doma and Obi Local Government Areas of the state, were built by the Nasarawa State Government between 2012 and 2016.

The decision to give them a facelift, our correspondent gathered, was made after many parents complained about the poor condition of the buildings, as well as expressed fear for the safety of their children and wards.

Reacting to the situation, the Nasarawa State Chairman of the National Parent-Teacher Association of Nigeria, Mr Umaru Ebeyan, in an interview with our correspondent, blamed the rapid deterioration of the structures, in less than four years, on substandard building materials and incompetence on the part of the contractors that handled them.

He regretted that the association was not at any point involved in the building of the classroom blocks, not even to help monitor adherence to standards.

Ebeyan urged the state government to take drastic measures toward tackling the situation at hand so as to avert loss of lives.

Also, a parent, Mr Audu Michael, called on the government to bring the contractors, who initially handled the construction of the buildings, to book so as to serve as a deterrent to others.

Micheal warned that if the government failed to deal with the situation effectively, many parents would have no other alternative than to withdraw their children from the schools.

When contacted, the Secretary of the Nasarawa State Universal Education Board, Mr. Yakubu Ubangari, said the board was aware of the situation, but he declined to comment on it.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]