Restore management courses in FUNAAB, students appeal to FG
Chux Ohai

Some students of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, Ogun State, have appealed to the Federal Government to allow Management courses to continue to run in the institution.

The students, acting under the aegis of the College of Management Sciences Student Association, in a statement made available to our correspondent, urged the government to follow the example of past governments by diversifying the academic programmes of FUNAAB, specifically that of the college, in line with current reality and global best practices.

The students also called on the government to improve access to education, with a view to making it affordable for millions of youths seeking admission to tertiary institutions in the country.

Reminding the Federal Government that two years ago it issued a directive to the Nigerian University Commission and the Joint Admission Matriculating Board to delist Management Sciences from specialised universities, such as FUNAAB, the students wrote, “This implied the institutions would no longer be allowed to run other allied professional courses, aside from courses in the areas of their core mandate. This took an immediate effect from 2016 and prospective candidates seeking admission to study those courses at the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta have since then been denied the opportunity.

“The Federal Government should note that thousands of students and graduates, who would have not been able to fulfil their academic ambitions, have benefited from the existence of Management Science courses at the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta. It is noteworthy that, since the inception of College of Management Sciences, the university has graduated thousands of students in Accounting, Banking and Finance, Economics, Business Administration and Entrepreneurial Studies and all these courses had been fully accredited by National University Commission.

“Available records and feedback from employers to the college and the association reveal that many graduates of Management Sciences from FUNAAB are doing very well in their chosen careers. Some of them have become employers of labour through the practice of agriculture in large scale and other agro-related businesses.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]