Osun teachers involved in ongoing workers’ strike – NUT chair
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Teachers in Osun State, Mr Wakeel Amudah, has said that teachers in the state are fully in support of the three-day warning strike declared by the Nigeria Labour Congress on Wednesday.

The NUT chairman disclosed this in an interview with our correspondent in Osogbo, capital of the state, on Thursday.

He said that teachers in the state had not been paid several months’ salary arrears and, as a result, they were grappling with the same challenges facing other categories of workers.

Amudah said the teachers suspended their last strike because the Osun State Government agreed to pay the arrears.

Stressing that some people had concluded that teachers were not involved in the ongoing strike because primary and secondary schools in the states had not resumed for a new academic session, he said the NUT would support any action by the NLC because teachers were also affected by the problem of modulated salaries.

He said, “The NUT is fully involved in the ongoing strike. In fact, teachers in the state are at the forefront of it. We are carried along by the NLC and we are fully in support of this strike.

“We support whatever the NLC is doing because its leadership is working in the interest of all workers, including teachers. The government is owing teachers in the state and they are also affected by the issues on ground.

“We are calling on the state government to accede to our demands. We cannot feed well, our members cannot pay their rents and hospital bills, they can’t pay their children’s school fees and they are hungry.

“Teachers are being owed 34 months’ modulated salaries, just like other workers in the state and everybody knows that the current salaries are not adequate to take care of our basic needs. The part payment has affected teachers more than other workers. So we cannot say that we are not involved in the struggle.”

The NUT chairman said that although the state government had done well to provide the necessary infrastructure for education to thrive, the welfare of teachers required its urgent attention, too.

It would be recalled that the NLC chairman, Mr Jacob Adekomi, and the Chairman of the Trade Union Congress, Adebowale Adekola, had declared a three-day warning strike in the state. They also threatened to embark on an indefinite strike if the government failed to provide solutions to the issues driving the warning strike.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]