Akeredolu’s wife donates 400 laptops to pupils
Peter Dada, Akure

The wife of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has distributed laptop computers to 400 female secondary school pupils in the state to boost their learning of Information and Communication Technology.

The beneficiaries, who were selected from different secondary schools across the 18 local government areas of the state, participated in the 2018 edition of BEMORE Summer Boot Camp in Ilara Mokin, in the Ifedore Local Government Area of the state.

Akeredolu presented the gifts during the closing ceremony of the two-week exercise, held at the Federal University of Technology, Akure, Ondo State.

She expressed the hope that the pupils would contribute effectively to the realisation of a better Nigeria through the use of technology.

During the camping exercise, some of the girls received training in ICT, while some acquired knowledge in Solar Energy Development and entrepreneurial skills.

Akeredolu said, “The boot camp has succeeded in building the next generation of complete leaders who are technologically proficient, health aware and highly skilled as entrepreneurs.

“I must warn you that there will be challenging times, but you should know that this camp has equipped you with all that you need to overcome them all. You are the twinkle little stars that we hope will navigate our voyage. You are, indeed, the hope of many generations that has lost hope.

“Girls, rise up to the task ahead. You must put all you have learnt here to practice, mentor many more girl children and build a formidable network of change agents”.

She said that the young girls were all set to leapfrog all obstacles in ensuring that the Nigerian flag stands tall during the G20 Summits.

In his remarks, the Vice-Chancellor of FUTA, Prof. Joseph Fuwape, congratulated the girls and urged them to make proper utilisation of the knowledge acquired at the camp.

Also speaking at the ceremony, the wife of the Ekiti State governor-elect, Mrs. Bisi Fayemi, who congratulated the girls for being among the privileged few who had the opportunity to be exposed to technology at an early age, charged them to make the best use of the privilege and become great future leaders.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]