Bowen emerges winner of Maritime Blueprint competition
Tare Youdeowei

Bowen University, the University of Lagos and the Ekiti State University have emerged winners of the Maritime Blueprint Competition organised for law students in universities across the country.

The competition, which featured a debate on the theme, ‘Port costs and charges: A Recurring decimal under port reform regime’ and was facilitated by the SIFAX Group, in collaboration with the Maritime Forum of the Faculty of Law of UNILAG, was part of the activities marking the third edition of the Taiwo Afolabi Annual Maritime Conference.

The representatives of Bowen University, Adekeye Olanrewaju and Dunmade Samuel, took the first position with 85 points competition, beating Pius Bankong and Ipinnuoluwa Ade-Ademi of UNILAG who scored 81 points to the second position, while Durola Ayobami Tosin and Oyewole Sunday of EKSU came third with 78 points.

Speaking during the grand finale of the programme held at the Julius Berger Hall, UNILAG on Thursday, the Group Executive Vice Chairman, SIFAX Group, Dr Taiwo Afolabi, said the need to deepen the knowledge base of law students and stimulate their interest in the country’s maritime industry necessitated the company’s interest in sponsoring the competition.

Afolabi said, “We don’t have enough maritime legal experts in the industry. Very few students show interest in the legal aspect of the sector. Having identified this, the company decided to take up the sponsorship of the competition. I am personally leading the mentorship charge because as a lawyer, I have experienced, firsthand, the many opportunities inherent in the application of law to the maritime sector.”

The University of Benin, the University of Ilorin and Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, also participated in the competition.

.Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]