Don faults FG on funding of varsities
Gibson Achonu, Owerri

A former Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academics) at the Federal University of Technology, Owerri, Prof. Michael Iloeje, has said that poor funding on the part of the Federal Government is the reason why Nigerian universities are lagging behind in many respects.

Speaking during the Second Exit/Valedictory lecture of the universitys, themed, ‘In character and in learning, till health do us part’ and held on the main campus of the institution in Owerri, Iloeje said that Nigerian universities had been “bleeding” from lack of adequate funds to equip their libraries, laboratories, workshops, farms, classrooms and other teaching support facilities.

Aside from this, he noted, both the teaching and non-teaching staff of the universities were being paid salaries that were not even good enough to take care of their needs and that of their respective families.

Iloeje also said that although best global benchmarks had been elaborately calculated to show the minimum unit cost of education for each of the courses offered in Nigerian universities, it remained to be seen how well the government had fared in the allocation of funds to the institutions so that they could meet the minimum unit cost stipulated for every degree course.

The don, who dwelt extensively on the concept of the university, including the European, British, American, African and specifically the Nigerian models in particular, argued that additional resources, in terms of funding and manpower, were necessary for the growth and development of the institutions.

Calling on the Federal Government to discard the idea of an additional one year layering in the undergraduate programmes of the universities and the Academic Staff Union of Universities, as well as the Committee of Vice Chancellors to be part of the efforts aimed at stifling the policy, he said, “I urge the government to channel the funds they would have spent on some unnecessary programmes towards improving the teaching and researching facilities in the universities.”

Iloeje lamented FUTO’s current status as a non-residential institution. Stressing that most of its workers and students still commuted daily to the campus from mainland Owerri, he said, “I find it embarrassing that even the vice-chancellor of the university still lives in a rented apartment, an old rented apartment built more than 40 years ago before the turn of the century, because there is no accommodation for him on the campus.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]