Osun to establish libraries in public schools
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Osun State Government has promised to establish functional libraries in all the public primary and secondary schools in the state so as to encourage and promote reading among pupils.

The Tutor-General of Osun State, Mr Anthony Famoriyo, said this on Wednesday during an event organised to celebrate the Library Week in Osogbo, capital of the state.

Speaking on the theme, ‘Library and media as catalyst for national unity and security’, Famoriyo said the government had made it a priority to establish well-equipped libraries in order to broaden the minds of the pupils in the state.

He said, “The state government is very passionate about libraries and this has informed the decision to make sure that all schools in this state are equipped with functional libraries.”

He noted that Governor Rauf Aregbesola had mandated all permanent secretaries of the Ministry of Education to donate 20 books each to any school of their choice within the state in order to ensure that pupils had enough books to read.

Famoriyo urged pupils to imbibe the habit of reading, stressing that it would afford them the opportunity to learn more about what they were taught in schools.

The keynote speaker, Dr Lekan Asifat, said that libraries would contribute significantly to the ongoing fight against terrorism through effective propaganda and the bridging of ideological or religious divides.

Describing libraries as some of the most useful enterprises ever undertaken by man, Asifat said, “Today, information explosion is taking place in the world and the social media is increasingly enjoying a position of considerable importance throughout the globe.

“The social media has paved the way for millions of people across the world to locate, connect, make friends, share ideas, solicit support and mobilise people with similar interests against unfavourable government policies, despotic and weak leaders, as well as injustice, among others.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]