LBS graduates 49 health care leaders
Chux Ohai

About 49 medical practitioners have graduated from the Lagos Business School Development Programme, which was organised in partnership with the Management Development Institute for leaders and managers of health care services in West Africa in Lagos.

The participants, drawn from Nigeria, Ghana, Niger and Cameroun, went through a very intensive training programme to improve their competencies in Organisational Planning, Leadership and Human Resources Management, Social Marketing, Operations Management, Project Management, Programme Monitoring and Evaluation, Health Information Systems, Financial Management, Governance and Ethics, Economics and Healthcare Management.

Over 1,448 medical practitioners have so far benefited from the programme administered by the Global Business School Network for healthcare professionals in sub-Saharan Africa and funded by Johnson and Johnson.

Speaking during the graduation ceremony, the Commissioner for Health in Lagos State, Dr. Jide Idris, represented by the Chairman of the Lagos State Health Service Commission, Dr. Bayo Aderiye, said, “We are very pleased that the programme was hosted in Lagos, which is the most populous city in West Africa. The programme will help to checkmate brain drain in the healthcare sector.”

In his address, the Senior Manager, Sub-Saharan Africa, Global Community Impact, Johnson and Johnson, Mr. Rene Kiamba, said, “The primary goal of the MDI programme is to equip leaders and managers to lead teams in various capacities in implementing their peculiar national health priorities and improving the effectiveness of their health systems. Participants are also expected to start community health improvement projects.”

Also, speaking during the ceremony, Lagos Business School Faculty and Director of Programme, Management Development Institute, Dr. Obinna Muogboh, said that with the MDI programme, Africa would be better prepared to respond to the challenges in the health care sector.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]