Experts caution parents on pupils’ homework
Tare Youdeowei and Tope Oluwabiyi

In past, homework was largely the duty of the pupil. Now, the trend seems to be changing as schools are fine-tuning homework to involve parents. School administrators have said that it will foster bonding between the pupils and their parents, as well as enable the latter to learn more about their children’s academic abilities and what they have learnt in school.

However, educationists, ahead of the new academic session, have said that parents should know where to draw the line when supervising their children’s homework. They also accused parents of being impatient and hijacking children’s homework, which adversely affects the learning process.

A Principal of one of the public secondary schools in Ojo Local Government Area of Lagos State, who spoke on condition of anonymity, urged parents to resist the temptation to do their children’s homework themselves.

“There was a time when the problem was to get parents who patronised public schools to be involved in their child’s or ward’s work at school. It was because most parents were too busy or the pupils were house-helps and their guardians were simply not interested.

“Now that the times have changed, public schools admit pupils from parents of all income levels, who are even more aware. The latest challenge is that parents tend to do the homework themselves to make the process faster, instead of spending time with the children supervising their homework,” he said.

A teacher in the Ekiadolor area of Edo State, Mrs Osawese Nathan, pointed out that parents shifted their responsibilities to the home lesson teacher and compelled him or her to do their children’s homework so they would not have to handle the supervision themselves.

Nathan said, “Some parents feel that since their wards have lesson teachers, they should do their children’s assignments. What they do not realise is that it is the parent’s responsibility to supervise the child and give pointers so as to ensure that the child has learnt something. Then you can now understand why the child has difficulty absorbing what he has been taught. This doesn’t necessarily mean that the teacher didn’t teach the topic. Maybe it was due to circumstances, such as stress. On the other hand, the teacher may not have taught the topic well.”

Also cautioning parents to desist from doing the homework themselves, she added, “Parents have taken advantage of the fact that they can supervise the child. In the process, they end up doing it for them. When I notice it, because I know the handwriting of my pupils, I simply cancel it and caution the parent. Sometimes the parents are even more stubborn than the child.”

On how parents who were not educated would cope with this new trend, a retired teacher, Mr Austin Agbarakwe, said, “Some parents complain that the teacher gives the children books they can’t read, but when teachers give students books to read, it is for the parent to engage them and identify their challenges. Some are designed for the parent to read to the child, while he or she studies the pictures in the book.

“This thing that parents are complaining about would shock you. I have come to realise that it is parents who are not literate that make sure their children do their assignments at all cost. One woman in my neighbourhood used to march her child to me to assist him. She would sit with us and listen as if she understood what was going on. It is all about interest.”

Another parent, who does not feel that demanding parents’ involvement in homework is asking too much, Mrs Oluwatoyin Ajayi, commended the new trend.

For Ajayi, homework enables her to learn the areas of strength and weakness of her children academically. “I feel that homework should involve us because parents are meant to bring in new ideas into the child’s work. So, parents should not complain about teachers giving their children homework because it is for their own good,” she said.

Ajayi added that she noticed that doing homework with her children helped to build their confidence, as well as the friendship between them.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]