Loyola College old boys renovate school building
Tofarati Ige

To mark the 20th anniversary of their graduation from their alma mater, the 1998 set of old pupils of Loyola College, Ibadan, Oyo State, have renovated one of the buildings in the school.

Speaking on the renovation, the Chairman of the 98 set, Dr Akinlolu Ajani, said the old boys had been executing a number of projects since the set commenced annual reunion in 2015, which came to a climax during the celebration of the set’s 20th anniversary.

Ajani said, “Traditionally, the Loyola College set of “98 have each year, since 2015, organised a class reunion with a good number of boys turned men in attendance. The major aim of this reunion is to give back to the school by supporting with infrastructural development of the college in our own little way.

“It is considered a perfect opportunity to utilise the 20th anniversary since leaving the school to commission the projects that were conceived during past reunions and now executed.

“The latest project that the ’98 set has completed is the building where the set started JSS1 in 1992, when they were admitted as students of the school. Incidentally, the same building was where they completed their Senior Secondary School. Thus, there is a special attachment to that building.”

Describing the renovated building as the set’s legacy to the school, Ajani said, “In this milestone year, the LOCOBA ’98 set will have the chance to come together as a class and present their alma mater with a gift that will last in perpetuity and be their class legacy. Indeed, we are the best in every way.”

Loyola College, Ibadan, was established by the Roman Catholic mission in 1953. It started out as Catholic Secondary Grammar School before it was later re-christened Loyola College in 1956.

Some of the notable alumni of the school are Prof Pat Utomi, Dr Raymond Dokpesi, Ooni Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Dr Tonnie Iredia and Nollywood actor, Hanks Anuku.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]