230 pupils benefit from JCI, MBA leadership training
Olufemi Atoyebi, Ibadan

Two hundred and thirty pupils from various public secondary schools in Oyo State have benefited from the third edition of a leadership training workshop organised by the Ibadan chapter of the Junior Chambers International and Muyiwa Bamigbose Academy in Ibadan, the state capital.

At the award ceremony held at the Wesley College of Science, Elekuro, Ibadan, and attended by the Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Prof. Adeniyi Olowofela, 20 outstanding members of the group were awarded scholarships by the owner of MBA, Muyiwa Bamgbose.

Bamgbose said the idea behind the training was to catch the children young and prepare them as future leaders.

He said, “If we continue to complain about leadership in Nigeria, what are we doing to improve on it for a better nation? We continue to blame people for the nation’s woes, while we watch our children grow up in the same system and look up to the country’s failed leaders.

“What we did was to choose the prefects from all the public schools across Oyo State and equip them with leadership knowledge in a camp so that they could go back to their schools and inculcate the knowledge in others.

“Progressively, we see these children come up and I am looking up to the time when those aspiring to be councillors or commissioners will be people who come from a position where they have been exposed to leadership as youths. Today, many of them point to coming from the position of former students’ union leaders as if life begins at the university level.

“I listened to many of these children and it is amazing that they come from public schools. There is nothing wrong with them, beyond the fact that their parents could not send them to high fee-paying schools. In the future, they can form the group that will lead us, instead of continuing to have the wrong set of people coming up to lead an informed nation.”

The Coordinator of the programme, Kayode Adedayo, who is also the President of JCI in Ibadan, said that during the five-day programme, the pupils were trained in leadership, punctuality and respect, saying it was part of the five-year strategic plan by JCI and MBA.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]