Proprietress canvasses support for indigent pupils
Tare Youdeowei

The Administrator of Grace Schools, Gbagada, Lagos, Mrs Tokunbo Edun, has called on corporate organisations and individuals to support the educational development of less privileged children.

Edun, in a statement, said the need to support the less privileged became imperative due to the huge gap between pupils whose parents could afford to pay their tuition fees and the indigent ones.

She disclosed that Grace Schools had established an annual scholarships award, instituted in honour of the late founder of the school, Deaconess Grace Bisola Oshinowo; for the benefit of indigent pupils. The purpose, she added, was to give them access to qualitative education.

The scholarship, which is valued at over N1m per session, covers tuition, books, uniforms, boarding and fees, pocket money and even extends to university education.

The administrator also stated that over 30 students had received the scholarship awards since its inception in 2004, while more than N100m had been invested in the scheme.

“When the pupils leave Grace Schools and go to the university, we pay their tuition and accommodation fees, in addition to giving them a monthly stipends. We also encourage them to take the SAT exams, which is also paid for. At least, two pupils have, through their high SAT scores, won places in reputable American universities,” she said.

Edun noted that, beyond passing the school’s entrance examination, there were other ways to ensure transparency, such as a visit by the school’s management team to the recipient’s parents and other relatives before presenting the scholarship award.

Edun also disclosed that the school had donated cash and materials towards the upgrading of several schools within its host community. “There was the provision of furniture and books to Gbagada Primary School, for example. This has been a major activity for several years. Ajidagan Primary School has also been a major beneficiary of the Corporate Social Initiatives. The school, which collapsed last year, was reconstructed.

“Beyond providing educational support, Grace Schools has also sponsored the sport events in several schools in the Gbagagda area,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]