‘Invest in biotechnology to eliminate hunger’
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

A renowned professor of Food Microbiology at the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso, Ezekiel Otunola, has called on the Federal Government and other developing nations around the world to invest in biotechnology, Information and Communication Technology, as well as Nanotechnology, in order to ensure food security.

Otunola made this call in Ogbomoso on Friday while delivering the 24th inaugural lecture of the LAUTECH, themed, ‘The battle against hunger and malnutrition: The significant contributions of the smallest creatures.’

The don blamed food wastage for the alarming situation of global food and nutrition insecurity, which he said had led to serious consequences, especially on children, pregnant women and elderly persons.

He said that since the Federal Government and other developing countries had an advantage over the developed nations of the world, in terms of the diversity of bio-resources, they should emulate the latter by focusing on the development of a bio-based economy.

Otunola also suggested that concerted efforts be made globally to break the vicious cycle of hunger, poverty and disease to enable the world to enjoy a measure of peace in the nearest future.

He said, “It is also important and, indeed, imperative that developing countries invest heavily in research, particularly those related to biotechnology and bio-informatics, information and communication technology, as well as nanotechnology, which are the propelling forces for the ensuing bio-based economy that may soon dominate the global landscape.”

The microbiologist said that developing countries must invest in technologies that would ensure food security for their people. He warned that food must be abundantly available at all times in order to eliminate the problem of malnutrition which had led to the death of many children in the world.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]