ASUU calls on Osun, Oyo govts to save LAUTECH
Chukwudi Akasike

THE Academic Staff Union of Universities, Port Harcourt Zone, on Monday called on the Osun and Oyo State governments, the joint owners of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomosho, to fund the institution and save it from collapse.

ASUU urged both governments to urgently take full responsibility of funding the university rather than shifting the financial burden of running it to the students.

The Coordinator of ASUU, Port Harcourt zone, Uzo Onyebinama, said the union was still negotiating with the governments of Osun and Oyo to finance the institution.

He said, “Education is a social service and it ought to be treated as such. All hands must be on the deck to compel the Osun and Oyo State governments to do the needful and take full responsibility for the funding of LAUTECH and save the institution from dying.

“The attempt by the two state governments to shift the burden of funding of LAUTECH to students through an outrageous regime of tuition fees and other charges should be seen as a calculated attempt to deny the poor access to university education. Such will be totally resisted, I assure you.”

Expressing worry over the current state of the institution, which was established 28 years ago to serve as a medium for advancing education and enlightenment in the country, the zonal coordinator also said that LAUTECH had become a shadow of what it should be.

“Ladoke Akintola University of Technology was established in 1990 and jointly owned by Osun and Oyo states and was, at that time, one of the best in the South-West. Today, LAUTECH is a caricature of what a university should be.

“The members of staff of the university are being owed 10 months’ salaries, promotion arrears from 2013 to 2017 and earned academic allowances from 2009 to 2017.

“The Osun and Oyo State governments have exhibited uncommon and unparallelled insensitivity in their handling of the funding of LAUTECH,” Onyebinama said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]