NYSC redeploys 700 corps members
Olaide Oyelude, Katsina

A total of 700 out of 1,289 members of the National Youth Service Corps serving in Borno State have been redeployed.

The NYSC Coordinator in Borno State, Alhaji Rabiu Katsina, disclosed this in a meeting with journalists held on Monday in Katsina, capital of Katsina State, after the closing ceremony of the three-week orientation exercise for the 2018 Batch ‘B’ corps members in the state.

Katsina said the corps members were redeployed due to challenges ranging from insecurity and ill-health to marital issues.

He said, “We cannot stop the corps members who seek redeployment for health reasons. We have to release them to their respective parents who will continue to take care of them. The same thing applies to female corps members who are married. This is strictly on compassionate grounds.”

The coordinator also said that Borno had decided to pay various monthly allowances to corps members, aside from the normal monthly allowance paid to them by the NYSC, as an incentive to encourage those deployed to the state.

He said, “Borno State now pays N100,000 monthly allowance to corps members who are doctors and N50,000 monthly allowance to corps members who are paramedics, including nurses and physiotherapists.

“The state equally pays a monthly allowance of N10,000 to all other corps members, irrespective of their fields.”

Meanwhile, Governor Kashim Shettima, who was represented at the ceremony by the Chairman of the NYSC Governing Board in Borno, Alhaji Mahdi Gazali, said he was looking forward to welcoming the new corps members to the state.

He said “I wish to also use this occasion to inform you that peace has now fully returned to Borno State.

“I urge you to come and serve in the state in order to contribute your own quota towards the reconstruction, rehabilitation and resettlement programme initiated by the state government to restore the peaceful coexistence and commercial activities the state was known for before the dreadful insurgency problem that nearly crippled the state.”

.Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]