Education quality and global rankings
The most influential global academic rankings – the highly influential Shanghai Academic Ranking of World Universities, Times Higher Education World University Rankings and QS World University Rankings – have been in existence for more than a decade and are now a major force in shaping higher education worldwide.

One of their key purposes is to demonstrate the world’s best universities, based on their own criteria. However, they consider fewer than five per cent of the more than 25,000 academic institutions worldwide. The rankings are influential – students make decisions on where to study; some governments allocate funds; and universities struggle to improve their position in them.

From the beginning, these rankings have focused primarily on research productivity. Reputational measures are also included in the QS and THE rankings, but they remain controversial due to low response rates that accentuate biases and limited perspective.

Each survey indicator is considered independently, whereas multi-collinearity is more persuasive – in other words, doctoral students, citations, research income, internationalisation, etc, are highly interdependent.

Allowing for some overlap, research-related indicators constitute approximately 70 per cent of the total score for QS while reputation constitutes 50 per cent. Both ARWU and THE are 100 per cent based on research or research-related indicators.

Without question, teaching is the fundamental mission of most higher education institutions; with few exceptions, undergraduates comprise the majority of students enrolled in higher education worldwide. However, the “world-class” concept is derived from those universities that score highest in global rankings. This is relatively easy to explain.

Research-intensive- universities tend to be the best known internationally and, hence, the most recognisable in reputational surveys. Bibliometric data is easily captured, albeit that practice continues to undervalue arts, humanities and social sciences research as well as research with a regional or national orientation – especially research published in languages other than English.

Global rankings have been quick to capitalise on finding a solution to this issue by including more indicators about the quality of education and teaching. Richard Holmes pointed out that this remains “unmapped territory”. However, the problem is more fundamental than the choice of indicators.

One reason teaching and learning has not been included in global rankings is the difficulty of measuring and comparing results across diverse countries, institutions and students.

In addition, there is the necessity to take account of how and what students learn and how they change as a result of their academic experience without simply reflecting the student’s prior experience – their social capital. The focus is the quality of the learning environment and learning gain rather than the status or reputation of the institution.

Thus, many individual colleges and universities seek to assess teaching quality using a variety of measures, including teaching portfolios and peer-assessment, for the purposes of recruitment and promotion of faculty members. In many countries, faculty must acquire a credential in teaching and learning practice prior to, or upon, appointment.

Source: www.universityworldnews.com