‘Declare if you want to liquidate LAUTECH’
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Academic Staff Union of Universities has called on Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State and his Osun State counterpart, Govenor Rauf Aregbesola, to tell the public if they want to liquidate the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso or not.

The Zonal Coordinator of ASUU, Ibadan Zone, Dr Ade Adejumo, who said this at a briefing held in Osogbo on Monday, said that LAUTECH lecturers were currently on a two- week warning strike to press home their demand for proper funding of the university.

Adejumo said the problem of the university had deteriorated from poor funding to no funding, saying the actions of the two states were aimed at destroying the institution.

Adejumo said, “They ( Ajimobi and Aregbesola) should come out and disclose their plans for LAUTECH. If they want to liquidate the university, they should be bold enough to tell the whole world that they are liquidating the university.

“The problem was poor funding before this time, but things have become worse now because the two states have stopped funding LAUTECH and this is capable of destroying the university.”

The ASUU boss stated that the agreements reached before the academic staff of the institution suspended the last strike had not been respected by the governments of the two states.

He said the university could not afford to increase tuition fees because such a move could force many students to leave the institution.

Urging the governments of both states to pay more attention to the university, Adejumo said, “Any increment in tuition fee will definitely force poor students out of the school and the implication is that prostitution, armed robbery and criminalities will increase. We are currently on a two-week warning strike. We are calling attention to the fact that LAUTECH is on the brink of final disintegration.

“We are not so much concerned about almost 10 months arrears; we are concerned about the non-funding of the university.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]