St Anne’s’ alumni urge Oyo govt to return school to owners
Olufemi Atoyebi, Ibadan

The 149th anniversary of St Anne’s School, Molete, Ibadan, was held on Saturday with members of the Old Girls Association of the institution calling on the Oyo State Government to hand over the school to the owners and the old pupils for proper management.

The President of St Anne’s Old Girls Association, Mrs Motolani Akinkoye, said the old pupils, who were shocked to see the dilapidating state of the school several decades after graduating, blamed government for the infrastructural collapse.

Akintoye, who left the school more than 50 years ago, said efforts would be made to ensure the return of the boarding facility to the school.

She said, “The unique thing about our reunion is to meet and decide on what we want to do for the 150th anniversary next year. We wanted to see the condition of things because this is not the school we left over 50 years ago. This is a different school. But no matter how bad, it is still our school.

“The hostels are no more there. When we were here, we stayed in the hostel; so, we grew up together and cared for ourselves. As sisters, we read together, ate together and did everything together. Today, we still see ourselves as the same group that left more than 50 years ago. Government should allow us to run the school.”

Ms Funke Adekoya, who is a Senior Advocate of Nigeria and a member of the 1967/1968 set of the school, said it was time for the government to give the school back to the owners, expressing displeasure over its present state and lack of boarding facility.

One of the oldest members of the old girls and leader of the Lagos group, Dr Kessiah Awosika, said the association would rally to the support of the school.

Awosika, who is the first Nigerian to obtain a degree in Economics from the Oxford University, London said, “What I saw in the school is sad. We visited the school early this year and our experience was not comfortable. We went back to Lagos to mobilise our member through social media. We shall soon sing a new song because we are making effort to bring back its glory.

“Boarding schools must be re-introduced. Government has done nothing for the school and it is probably not its fault. The Anglican Communion, which owns the school, should come up like the Catholic Church to reclaim the schools.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]