Return of History: Omolewa, Albert call for change in teaching methodology
Tare Youdeowei

Following the March 30 directive from the Federal Ministry of Education to the Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council to restructure the History curriculum in such a way as to enable it to exist on its own, the NERDC has made the subject compulsory from primary one to junior secondary three.

The body stated that History would teach pupils the nation’s past under the following topics: Origins of History and Peopling, Heroes and Heroines in Nigeria, Political Developments in Nigeria, Geography and Environment, Economics and Trade Cultures, Customs of Nigeria, to mention a few.

Experts have lauded the return of History, as they said no society could survive outside the knowledge of its past. However, they argued that the solution to the nation’s problems was beyond reintroducing History. They insisted that the way the subject was taught needed to change.

They also suggested that topics should teach pupils about recent events, like the Civil War and the tenure of more recent military and civilian presidents.

Emeritus Prof Michael Omolewa, of the University of Ibadan, who has been teaching History for 51 years, lauded the decision to re-introduce the subject.

“One, it will make everyone aware of all those who built the nation; those who fought for independence, resisted foreign incursions, those who have made sacrifices, contributed resources and all their skills and talent to nation-building. So, the reintroduction of this subject is a great encouragement to the young ones to know where they come from. And you know that you cannot strive to have a vision of where to go if you don’t know where you are coming from. The reintroduction of History is one of the best decisions that have ever been made by any government that I know since the amalgamation on January 1st, 1914.

“Two, because you now know your past, you will be encouraged to also invest in what you have now in appreciation of those who have already made the contribution in the past. Third, it will help everybody in Nigeria to know some of the strategies that can assist this country to move forward. They will begin to think; let us not just bring outsiders like that, because they may just begin another slave trade. Take away our resources, take away our people,” he said.

Omolewa, who is also a member of the Board of Trustees for the Centre for Black Culture and International Understanding, Osogbo, Osun State, noted that it would also encourage, the promotion of the discipline of history itself as a respectable body.

“History is what has been described as the mother of all disciplines. Once you know history, you will know almost everything automatically. If you know history, you will be a better lawyer, because all the antecedents of someone passing one legislation in 1860, you are already familiar with that. And then you will be a better economist because you know the flow of business over the years, and so on. Even in medicine, you remember when you go to the hospital, the first thing they do is to check your medical history. That is already telling you that history is functional, is relevant, is appropriate,” the expert said.

In the same vein, Prof Isaac Olawale Albert, a lecturer of African History, Peace and Conflict Studies at the Institute for Peace and Strategic Studies, University of Ibadan, is of the opinion that the reintroduction of history will reinforce the survival of Nigeria.

His words, “When you study history, you are looking at both the positive and negative aspect of your past, and this is in view to ensuring that past mistakes are not repeated and ensuring that past achievements are reinforced. One wouldn’t know why Nigeria decided to lull historical scholarship in this country, but now that we are gradually coming to our senses. I think what we should do is congratulate ourselves that this is happening.

“So, if we teach our students History, at all levels, it will enable them to become better-informed citizens. Awolowo did many things, so did Azikiwe and Tafawa Balewa. If we are unconscious of what these people did right and what mistakes were made, then it’s difficult for us to get to the future. It means we can still repeat the mistakes they made. By introducing our children to History, we are reinforcing the survival of the Nigerian state.”

Insisting that the teaching of History should, this time around, go beyond just learning the stories and regurgitating them in WASSCE, Albert said, “Storytelling may not tell you the lessons of history. I think what we should be emphasising now – which I think is the responsibility of the Historical Society of Nigeria – is to begin to teach history in the way that focuses more on lessons of the past that have been learnt.”

Calling for a change in methodology that includes learning the morals of a historical event, Albert urged the Historical Society of Nigeria to develop a better way History can be taught.

“We should not over-celebrate this government policy asking us now to teach History. I think we should give better attention to how it is taught; because the focus is on teaching the lessons of the past, it’s not just storytelling. We want to tell moral stories.

“History must now be taught with the focus on moral lessons. History teachers are not folklorists. They should teach History with a view to enabling students to constructively engage with the past. Not just, for example, this person travelled from this place to this place, but why did the person travel? What was the implication of the person travelling? We really need to take a careful look at how history is taught, and what the focus should look like.”

On his part, Omolewa who is the author of Certificate History of Nigeria and Africa and the Wider World volumes one to three, textbooks for senior secondary history, stated that it was not just enough for the government to say History be taught from primary one to JSS3, and as an elective from SS1. According to him, it is now left for the historians themselves to begin to advise government and think about the type of history that should be taught.

“So, it’s not just the history, it is the content of the history that is important. In other words, what exactly is going to be the content of that history? From what period are we going to start? Independence? 1960? Are we going to start from amalgamation in 1914, are we going to start from the annexation of Lagos in 1860? Are we going to start from the invasion of Benin in 1786?

“In other words, it is a two-way street. Let us cooperate with the government, let us also make our own contribution, let history be respectable, fair and problem-solving, not just telling the stories. Yes, there was one Herbert Macaulay. But the question should be asked: Why did he decide to be a nationalist? What was the impact he made? Why do we have one of the longest streets in Lagos named after him?”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]