FG pledges to promote establishment of digital classrooms
The Federal Government says it will involve commissioners of education and school proprietors in its partnership with a Chinese Firm to promote the establishment of digital classrooms across the country.

The Minister of Communications, Mr Adebayo Shittu, said this on Tuesday in Abuja at the inauguration of a digital classroom donated by NetDragon Websoft limited.

The project was executed by the Chinese Firm in partnership with the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to President on Sustainable Development Goals under its “Education and Smart School Initiative”.

Shittu commended the Chinese firm for supporting OSSAP-SDGs to implement its digital-based teaching and learning initiative with a view to ensuring rapid social economic development.

READ ALSO: SARS overhaul: Twitter users hail FG’s intervention

“It is my hope that what we have seen today will be replicated in all schools across the country.

“I would have loved that we have all the states commissioners of education and managers of private schools here to witness, see for themselves and try to replicate same in their institutions.

“We will try to see how this project can be brought to the notice of potential stakeholders, who would be given the opportunity to meet with your team and see how the project can be replicated across the country,” he said.

The minister said that scientific and technological advancement had transformed lives and helping to provide quality education across the world.

According to him, the frontier for quality education is moving faster than ever and so we must begin now to prepare our children to face the challenges and opportunities being driven by technology.

He called for concerted effort to ensure quality education for all to forestall the danger of being excluded from future prosperity.

“We must do the needful so that our children will not blame us for the deficiency and lack of prosperity that goes with failure to plan properly for the future.

“Our ministry is committed to the achievement of goal four of the SDGs considering the fact that education is key to national development,” he added.

In his remarks, Sen. Isa Maina, FCT Education Secretary, commended the Chinese firm and the OSSAP-SDGS for choosing FCT for the pilot project.

He said the project would no doubt make learning easier for pupils, adding that it would also complement the efforts of the FCT Administration to provide quality education for its residents.

Maina pledged that the facility would be judiciously utilised to justify the purpose of its donation.

(NAN)