Winners in 2018 Mike Okonkwo National Essay Competition emerge
Dayo Ojerinde

Miss Deborah Onitilo of New Chrisfield College, Ikorodu, Lagos, has been announced as the overall winner of the 2018 Mike Okonkwo National Essay Competition for Secondary School pupils in Nigeria.

Onitilo emerged winner after scoring 63 per cent in the first round of the competition and 52 per cent in the second round.

The second position went to Miss Ashley Davidson of Vivian Fowler Memorial College for Girls, Ikeja, who scored 62 per cent in the first round and 49 per cent in the second round to come second.

Master Ferdinand Esigbone-Omagbemi, a pupil of Roshallom International Secondary School, Lagos, scored 60 per cent in the first round and 47 per cent in the second round to claim the third position. The other winner is Miss Ireoluwa Fagbemi of Roshallom International School, Lagos.

Announcing the results, the Chief Examiner, Prof. Akachi Ezeigbo, said, “After a painstaking scrutiny, we adjudged only four as suitable for invitation to the second stage of the competition, which is basically a confirmatory procedure to verify the integrity of the original submission.

“The content and structure of the four entries, we must say, are just sufficient to enable the candidates to score grades within the ‘B’ range. The implication of this is that the verve, creativity and imagination that we have seen in past performances are beginning to whittle down, even though enthusiasm to take part continues to rise”.

Ezeigbo also noted that the entries for the 2018 contest were characterised by infractions, such as plagiarism or direct lifting of materials from Internet repositories, copying from textbooks and other printed sources, cases of collaboration among candidates and evidence that candidates might have received help from either of their teachers or parents.

She said it was easy to detect the infractions because the candidates used language that was above their educational level.

The chief examiner revealed that, in many cases, the originality of some entries were verified by conducting simple Internet checks that finally confirmed that they contained significant portions of existing works.

She said, “As the Internet and android phones have become basic infrastructures of knowledge production and transmission, our children must now be made to understand that there are regulations concerning the extent to which they can claim materials domiciled in those spaces of learning. They need to be taught early enough how much they can extract from existing materials without infringing on copyright rules.

“We recommend that rudimentary lessons on the rules of proper writing, how to acknowledge the materials consulted and the consequences of plagiarism should form part of the curriculum of senior secondary school. Learning these rules early enough will ensure they do not develop and carry with them the habit of lifting materials from the Internet to higher institutions.”

For emerging overall winner of the contest, Onitilo will receive a cheque for N100,000, a personal laptop computer, a trophy and a plaque, while the school will get three sets of computer and a printer.

The first runner-up, Davidson, will go home with a cheque of N75,000, a plaque and her school will get two sets of computer and a printer. For emerging the third position, Esigbone-Omagbemi will go home with a cheque of N50,000, a plaque and his school receive a computer set. The other winner will get a consolation price of N20,000.

The prizes will be presented at this year’s Mike Okonkwo Annual Lecture, scheduled to hold at the MUSON Centre in Onikan, Lagos, on Wednesday, September 5, 2018. The theme for this year’s lecture is ‘Nigeria’s Unity: Matters Arising’. The lecture will be chaired by the President-General of OhanaezeNdi-Igbo, Chief John Nwodo, while it will be delivered by a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Mr. Femi Falana.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]