Education is the bedrock of any society – Adebule
Dayo Ojerinde

The Deputy-Governor of Lagos State, Dr Oluranti Adebule, has stressed the importance of quality education in the society.

Adebule, who was represented by the Director, Administration and Human Resource, Lagos State Ministry of Education, Mrs Folashade Lediju, at the Eighth Fidson Healthcare Brilliance Awards, held at the Ndubusi Kanu Park, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos, lauded the pharmaceutical company for partnering government by investing in the future of the children.

“This year the government has put a lot into education because we all know that education is the bedrock of any society and the future of our children is very important. We all know that education is not something that you can leave for the government alone, as at yesterday, the governor approved the recruitment of 2,200 teachers, 1000 for primary and 1200 for secondary schools,” she said.

Lediju also noted that Astymin, as a food supplement, was very important for every growing child. “Once the children are healthy, they will be able to channel their energy into developing themselves, and their education will not be a problem because only a healthy and sound mind will be able to access education and develop with it,’’ she stated.

The programme aimed at developing mental and academic performance while rewarding hard work and academic excellence amongst primary school pupils. This it did through special acknowledgement and provision of educational materials to selected pupils drawn from various public schools in Lagos State.

Also speaking at the event, the Director of Co-Curricular Department, Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board, Mr Hakeem Olalekan, noted that the Astymin Brilliance Reward was an encouragement to pupils, teachers and parents who put in so much effort to ensure their children work hard and perform excellently in their academics.

Olelekan, therefore, called on all stakeholders in the education sector to co-operate and give the best to the young ones.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]