‘Pupils should be taught positive societal values’
Tare Youdeowei

The proprietress, Agape Bundles Schools, Ojodu, Lagos, Barrister Jennifer Tuodolo-Okoli, has said that love is the remedy to societal ills. According to him, it should be taught and displayed to children at an early age.

She made this known at the 10th anniversary and graduation ceremony of the school where 26 pupils graduated from nursery two and grade five.

Her words, “To my ambassadors, go forth and shine. Continue with the values imparted to you while in the school, which are integrity, faithfulness and fear of God. Most of all, love one another. If there was love in the society, most of the ills we are having today would not happen.

“I know you all will stand out everywhere you go because from the very beginning, we have had the kid-preneur programme where we taught you to be independent.

“You already know what to do because you were taught skills like bead making, arts and craft, as well as clothing and textile, under the homemakers club. We also thought you how to apply those skills to sustain and grow your businesses.

Speaking on what has kept the school going for a decade, Okoli said, “I have had a passion for children right from when I was in the University of Calabar.

In university, after meeting some abandoned children, I went out of my way to make sure that I took good care of the children out of my upkeep money.

I went as far as doing a 1-0-1 meal system, just to ensure they had something good to do. I started a fundraiser for them and to the glory of God today they are all doing well.

“Then, as a young mother, I saw the need to have a place where children can feel safe, where mothers can keep their children and still pursue their careers daily, without being worried about the safety of their child, that was how I answered the call of God to start up Agape Bundles 10 years ago. First as a daycare, then playgroup, nursery and now it has developed into a full primary. We are graduating our first set of primary school graduates,” Okoli declared.

Master Ibikunle Olawale, one of the graduating pupils of the school, said that he learnt about his state of origin when he joined the school in primary one.

His words, “They have taught me a lot of things like how to always be happy, to love and forgiving. When I got here I didn’t know my state but they found out and taught me.

“They also taught me never to give up, pray and keep my things well.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]