Holidays not periods for formal education – Proprietor
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

Parents and school owners have been advised against forcing children to continue with formal classes during holidays.

The Proprietor of Chloeville Schools, Lagos, Mrs Victoria Ajibola, said this in an interview with our correspondent in Osogbo, Osun State, on Thursday.

Ajibola said, “Some children, especially those living in busy cities like Lagos, will wake up by 5am and not return home until 6pm. This happens every day. During weekends, they still go to school. Even Sundays are also very busy for them, nowadays.

“During a long vacation, they are supposed to take their minds off formal education and try their hands on new things, such as vocational skills, sport and music, but this is not the case with Nigerians parents.

“We should tell parents, even school proprietors, that summer holidays are periods when you should allow a child to experience other things apart from formal education. They should be exposed to other things. But some parents, maybe because they are always busy, would just dump their children in schools to continue with Mathematics and other subjects and that cycle would continue endlessly.

“Pupils should be taught swimming, how to play musical instruments and how to bake cakes and some other things.”

The proprietress also said that exposing pupils to new skills could be useful for them later in life.

She said education should be all round and other things should be included in the curriculum.

She said, “Aside from this, we need to also pay attention to vocational education. If you ask those travelling abroad now, they will tell you that some of them are learning one vocation or another before jetting out of the country. This is so because they know that it will be easier for them to earn a living if they are equipped with relevant skills.

“In Nigeria, we should also encourage our children to learn plumbing, how to repair vehicles, electrical installation and other skills that they could fall back on when white collar jobs cease to be available.

“This will reduce the problem of unemployment in the land.”

Apart from learning new skills during the holidays, she added that children should be allowed to travel out of their cities and towns to enable them to learn new things and meet new people. She describes this as another form of education.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]