Chinese institute trained 5,000 Nigerians in 11 years — Director
Tare Youdeowei

The Nigerian Director of the Confucius Institute, Prof Chimdi Maduagwu, has said that the institution trained 5,000 Nigerians to read and write in the Chinese Language in 11 years.

Maduagwu disclosed this during the closing ceremony of the 2017/2018 academic session of the institute held at the University of Lagos last Thursday.

He said, “The Confucius Institute has trained more than 5,000 Nigerians and they have become proficient in the use of the Chinese Language. Some have gone ahead to become competent in the language. Many of them have been recommended for scholarships. They have also spent various periods of time in a number of universities in China to improve on their knowledge of the language and the Chinese culture. They have returned and are working with us here in Nigeria, in various sectors of our economy.”

Dismissing the insinuation that the Chinese were on a subtle mission to colonise Nigeria and Africa, the director also said, “This is not colonisation; it is a voluntary relationship. When it started between China and Nigeria, it was recognised as a win-win relationship. Besides, China has never been in the business of colonising other people. Although there is the great fear all over the world, that all the nice overtures may turn sour later and become what the west did, we can’t see that in the horizon.”

Also stressing that China was only interested in imparting her culture and learning new cultures, the Chinese Consul-General to Nigeria, Mr Guan Zhongqi, said, “I have been here for over one and a half years. I have not only made some Nigerian friends, but I have also read some books written by Nigerian authors. That is why I know some of the culture and history of the people. It is the same thing with Nigerian students who learn the Chinese language here in the Confucius Institute.

“This institute plays a key role in teaching the Chinese language to the people and introducing them to Chinese culture and history. We hope that through these steps many Nigerians will learn more about China so that our two peoples can know each other better. I believe that both countries will evolve together.”

The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, urged more Nigerians to learn foreign languages so as to excel in the business world.

“Whether we like it or not, the Chinese have come to stay and they will take over the world. America talks politics, but China is quietly taking over the world. There is the need for every one of us to learn the language because to transact business we need to learn as many languages as possible. I congratulate the graduates. I admire them because I wish I could learn the language fully,” he said.

Giving a breakdown of the institute’s programmes and activities, the Chinese Director of the institute, Prof. Wang Yongjing, said, “Nineteen students of the institute will receive the Hanban Scholarship from the Confucius Institute of Culture in Beijing, China. Aside the 19, we have also selected our best and most active students, who are interested in the Chinese culture and have been playing important roles in our cultural activities.

“In all, 47 students were offered the Chinese Investors Association Development scholarship awards. Their air fare, food and boarding expenses have been paid for. They have been placed on allowances to make them comfortable. We hope that with this, our CI students can find better jobs in Chinese enterprises.”

The closing ceremony featured a martial art display, songs and poetry recital, as well as Chinese cultural dances.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other\ digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: theedi[email protected]