ADC celebrates outstanding pupils
Dayo Ojerinde

The Principal of the Ansar-Ud-Deen College, Isolo, Lagos State, Mr Tajudeen Adebambo, has reiterated the institution’s commitment to academic excellence.

Speaking during the school’s Valedictory Service and Prize-giving Day event held on Wednesday, Adebambo said the emphasis on high standards and reward for excellence had led to a significant improvement in the academic performance of its pupils.

Calling on the pupils to awaken the greatness in them by aiming higher and going for excellence in all their endeavours as they move to the next level of their career, he said the combined effect of the conducive learning environment, modern infrastructure and quality teachers would produce more innovative and technologically-driven pupils.

The principal also noted that the pupils had demonstrated great and outstanding qualities that ought to be rewarded. He urged them to keep exhibiting those qualities that endeared them to the school authorities.

Adebambo said, “Today marks the end of another academic session; we are celebrating our pupils as worthy ambassadors and also rewarding them for academic excellence. The pupils have demonstrated great and outstanding qualities worthy to be celebrated and I urge them to keep improving on their performance.

“To the graduating pupils, I urge you to continue to be worthy ambassadors of this school and go out there to rule the world, as well as make a great difference with all the amazing and exceptional abilities you have been equipped with during your stay here.”

The Chairman, Board of Governors of the school and Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Mr Kayode Sofola, urged the pupils to always listen to the voice of God. He said that in critical situations they should never lose hope, rather they should trust God at all times.

While thanking the parents for the efforts at guiding the pupils on then path of success, Sofola advised the pupils never to cut corners, saying, “There is no short-cut to success. Be steadfast, let hard work be your guide.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]