Nigeria needs a technology-driven curriculum – Sanusi
The Proprietor of the International College of Arts, Science and Technology, Ibadan, Oyo State, Engr Dotun Sanusi, speaks on how to improve the education sector in this interview with TARE YOUDEOWEI

What brought an engineer to the education sector?

I am a Petroleum Engineer to be precise. In any society, we should not expect the government to do everything for the citizenry. I became an entrepreneur because I wanted to contribute my quota to the development of my country. I chose education because it is the soul of any nation’s development. There is no nation in the world that can develop if its education sector is plagued with problems. In order to provide quality education to the people, especially the younger generation, I decided to establish a private school where wholistic education would be the basis of its foundation.

What does wholistic education entail?

Any complete educational system must have elements such as a good structure, instructional materials, well-equipped laboratories, a well-defined curriculum that must take into consideration the needs of that society, and qualified teaching personnel. These elements are very important. This is exactly what we had in mind when we established ICAST.

Would you say that Nigeria’s curriculum meets society’s needs?

We need to re-examine our curriculum. We need to develop a curriculum that is technology-driven. There is no successful society that is not technologically-propelled, and it has to be properly funded.

Also, the idea of pushing students from one class to another all in the name of ‘private school,’ will not lead us anywhere. Examinations ought to be the true test of students’ capabilities and that is how it is supposed to be. How do you expect students to perform well after graduation when all that you have been doing is to ‘pad’ them up from primary to secondary and throughout university? There is no magic to that.

As I said earlier, I am an engineer. I am a field person. I can be on the field for several hours working. Everyone working with me knows this. To succeed in life, you have to be diligent and dedicated. My employees know that I don’t toy with my work and they have imbibed this attitude from me. All these are the values that we inculcate in our students. There is no ICAST pupil that will not be able to defend his or her certificate anywhere in the world because they are made compulsively to work for it. For us to have graduates who are employable we have to go back to the roots and we need to start doing the right thing.

What role does ICAST play in all of this?

At ICAST, we ensure that our students are taught in a conducive and serene environment. We have a well-equipped laboratory and a state-of-the-art Information and Communication Technology Centre. While the laboratory is to take care of the science-oriented students, the ICT centre is for all students regardless of the class they are in.

As a standard, we start the exposure of our pupils to ICT right from their preparatory classes. In addition to this, the ICAST curriculum is one that is specially designed with a view to providing certain needs to our students. For instance, we introduce Scrabble word game to our pupils in elementary school so as to aid their vocabulary development right from a tender age.

We ensure that pupils in the senior classes are taught and grilled in the art of studying before they start sitting for an external examination. I am bold to say that our school has one of the best sporting facilities by any private school in this part of the world.

Lastly, we ensure that discipline and dedication are enforced in our school. At ICAST, we have strict and uncompromised rules and regulations that guide the conduct of all our pupils.

How have these affected the pupils’ performance?

We started ICAST Schools in 2011, first with a primary school and later, secondary school. Since then our pupils have taken the WASSEC three times and they have performed exceptionally on each occasion with 100 per cent success rate.

This is not something I am making up, it is verifiable. But besides all these, our pupils’ etiquette is paramount in our mind. In as much as we work towards achieving academic excellence, we want to produce students who are spiritually inclined, morally upright and behaviorally acceptable.

This is where the issue of wholistic education I mentioned earlier comes in. At ICAST, it’s not about knowledge acquisition alone, but it is also about the practical implementation of knowledge, discipline, morality and good behaviour.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]