Alumni lament terror attacks on unity schools
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The alumni of the 104 Federal Government Colleges, under the aegis of the Unity Schools Old Students Association, has lamented the current security crisis in the country and its devastating effect on many schools and their host communities.

The association, in a communiqué released on Thursday by the Chairman of its Caretaker Committee, Ayodele Joseph, and the Chairperson, Board of Trustees, Aisha Oyebode, urged the FG to formulate an appropriate policy that would ensure the protection of unity schools against violent attacks by terrorist groups.

It said that recent attacks on schools in the North-East by the Boko Haram insurgents, including the killing of innocent pupils of the Federal Government College, Buni Yadi, Yobe State, in 2014, had been a major source of concern.

Calling on security agencies to be consistent in their urgent action to deter conflict and protect lives, which is less costly than responding to crises, the association stated, “The spate of killings, destruction and displacements have affected the lives of thousands of Nigerians. The old students’ association is deeply concerned about this development. We attended Federal Government Colleges in the four corners of this country, in communities whose ways of life we have come to know and imbibe. We are, therefore, deeply saddened to see this avoidable situation.

“The states afflicted with persistent crises include Benue, Borno, Yobe and Adamawa, Kaduna, Plateau, Sokoto and Zamfara. The crises range from conflicts between farmers and pastoralists, to killings, cattle rustling and armed robbery. Others are kidnapping and the Boko Haram insurgency.

“The association has been deeply affected by the insurgency. You would recall the infiltration and killing of school boys in FGC, Buni Yadi, Yobe State in 2014. It was a rude shock with devastating consequences from which our association and the country are yet to recover.”

The old pupils urged governments at the federal and state levels to sustain adequate security response, noting that religious groups and leaders must also enlighten their followers on the need for mutual respect.

They said, “We demand that the Federal and state governments demonstrate the swift and decisive political will to put an end to these crises and bring the perpetrators of the attacks to book. An urgent dialogue with all communities affected by the farmer and pastoralist crises is advocated.

“Religious and faith-based groups must enlighten their followers on the need for mutual respect and peaceful co-existence among all Nigerians. We commend the effort of those leaders who are already doing so. We urge an inter-faith approach to these matters.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]