‘Nigerian youths have no reason to fail’
Tare Youdeowei

The Special Adviser to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State on Education, Mr Obafela Bank-Olemoh, has said that due to the availability of information on the Internet, Nigerian youths have no reason to fail.

He said this during the mentorship session of the 2018 Ready Set Work, held at the Lagos State University on Saturday.

RSW is a 13 weeks training programme organised by the state to equip final-year students of Nigerian universities with soft and entrepreneurial skills. For this year’s event 25,000 students were invited to attend from Caleb University, Lagos State University, Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education, Lagos State Polytechnic, Yaba College of Technology and the Lagos State College of Health Technology.

Encouraging the students to get the best from the programme, Bank-Olemoh said, “You will agree with me that today’s generation has access to information that nobody had when we were growing up. The Internet is the difference. For me, Nigerian youths have no excuse to fail because they can do anything they want to do.

“There are positive and negative things on the Internet. So it is up to you to determine which part of it you want to focus on. If you want to improve or wreck your life, you can do that on the Internet. As a government, we encourage our youths to focus on the positive side and make their lives better.

“Our mandate, when RSW started in 2016, was to prepare our graduates for the world of work and that came from the feedback Governor Ambode received from companies complaining about the quality of our graduates. We started with 500 students, last year we had 12,000 and this year we have 25,000 students in three centres.”

He added that each student would be treated as an individual, just as graduates of the programme would embark on a six-month government funded internship. “What we have done is come up with a curriculum, in partnership with the private sector, that prepares youths for the world of work. LASU, for instance, has 29 classrooms, a maximum of 100 students. We have six facilitators in each class, which is broken into 20 students, that is a ratio of 10 students to a facilitator.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]