CBN probes contractor over failed UNIJOS project
The Central Bank of Nigeria has commenced investigation on a multi-billion naira building project at the University of Jos, which has yet to be completed several years after the contract was awarded.

While it is not clear whether the former contractor, a female, will refund the initial capital given to her as mobilisation fee, the apex bank has given the project to a new contractor.

The CBN was said to have taken the decision because the former contractor was allegedly playing politics with the contract.

The politicisation of the contract, sources claimed, prompted the intervention of the Governing Council of UNIJOS, which took up the case with the current CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele.

But the chairman, Governing Council and Pro-Chancellor of the university Prince Tony Momoh, told our correspondent that “new contractors” had taken over the project.

The former contractor was said to have been quizzed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission over an alleged breach of agreement.

Our correspondent gathered that the contract was awarded as interventions for some universities by the former governor of CBN and now Emir of Kano, Alhaji Muhammadu Sanusi II.

A source in UNIJOS said, “They call it the CBN Project. It is like a social centre that is supposed to house lecture halls, offices and others. This project has been on for some years now. In the case of UNIJOS, I want to assure you that almost three quarters of the funds set aside for this project has been collected by the contractor.

“Although the money has been collected, the project is still at the substructure and foundation level. She has not made any effort to address the matter. She would move contractors to the site and as soon as they spent one or two weeks, they were gone.”

Another lecturer in the Faculty of Law said the current CBN governor had tried o address the matter by speaking to the woman but in vain.

He said, “There is a high turnover of students and they need spaces for lectures and other things, but all that money has gone down the drain. Somebody must be held responsible for this.”

When contacted, the President of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, Prof. Abiodun Ogunyemi, said the CBN might have shifted its attention from education to agriculture.

He said, “The last time I visited the University of Ibadan, the project was more than 70 per cent completed. I suspect that the same trend will obtain in most of the universities.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]