190,000 pupils to get tech-based teaching –Edo SUBEB
Alexander Okere, Benin

The Edo State Universal Basic Education Board has said that about 190,000 pupils will benefit from the deployment of new teaching methods under the Edo Basic Education Sector Transformation Initiative.

The Acting Chairperson of the board, Dr Joan Oviawe, said the pupils would be exposed to learner-centred techniques by 5,000 teachers, who would be trained under the Edo-BEST programme.

Oviawe also disclosed that the first batch of teachers had already begun training, in an effort to improve the education sector.

According to her, over 7,000 teachers will have been trained and equipped with digital devices by September.

She stated, “I feel excited that the training has begun for the first of three batches of 5,000 primary school teachers. We would have successfully migrated up to 190,000 pupils onto a new teaching pedagogy that is learner-centered, constructivist and nurturing.

“It is a method that promotes teaching without corporal punishment. By September, 2018, 62 per cent of our 1,200 public primary schools in Edo state will be enrolled in the Edo-BEST programme. We are also gearing up to begin renovation and construction of over 230 primary schools across the state.”

According to her, every ward would be positively impacted, with the selection of, at least, one school per ward.

Oviawe added, “All of these are happening between April, 2018, and September, 2018. As you can imagine, it takes strong leadership and political will, huge resources and tremendous man hours to deliver on these impressive statistics.

“I feel really privileged to be at the forefront of this epochal change, working for Governor (Godwin) Obaseki, who has the courage to execute this vision for a better future for the teeming children in Edo state.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]