Increase disabled children’s UBE funds, CSOs tell FG
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

A coalition of Civil Society Organisations in Nigeria are demanding an increase in the Universal Basic Education funds dedicated to the education of children with disabilities.

According to them, the issue of inclusive education for children with disabilities is most crucial and should be given the desired attention by the Federal Government.

The Human Development Initiatives, Joint National Association of Persons with Disabilities, and Centre for Information and Technology Development, called on the government to raise the percentage of UBE intervention fund being made available for projects aimed at supporting disabled children across the country.

Speaking on behalf of the CSOs at a summit that was jointly organised by the HDI, JONAPWD and CITAD in Abuja, the Executive Director, HDI, Olufunso Owasanoye, said, “The 2014 National Policy on Education states that education of children with special needs shall be free at all levels and that the Federal Government is saddled with this responsibility, which includes conducting regular censuses and monitoring people with special needs, as well as special education equipment and training.

“Currently, only about two per cent of the UBE intervention fund is available to states for projects aimed at supporting children with disabilities. The evaluation of UNICEF’s Child-Friendly Schools programme regarding this shows that most schools lack appropriate resources, infrastructure and qualified teachers to meet the needs of these children.”

She stated that the objective of the summit was to, among other things, “demand an increase in UBE funds dedicated to the education of children with special needs from two per cent to three per cent.”

Owasanoye said the projects of HDI and CITAD in Nigeria jointly advocated for a review of the Consolidated Revenue Fund dedicated to financing the UBE intervention and to the education of children with special needs from two per cent to four per cent.

“JONAPWD, on the other hand, seeks to improve the inclusion and access of children with disabilities to quality basic education in Nigeria through effective stakeholders’ advocacy engagement for policy influencing, capacity building and public awareness creation,” she added.

Owasanoye told delegates at the summit that education remained the only panacea for ignorance, illiteracy subjugation and impoverishment in any society, adding that it had been the defining legacy in human development.

“Nonetheless, without adequate sustenance, the ray of hope provided through the introduction of education to young minds may eventually dim out if not quenched. It is for this reason that the introduction of education to uneducated parents and guardians for their children and youths should be given utmost priority,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]