Holidays: Parents encourage pupils to acquire vocational skills
Tare Youdeowei

Parents of primary and secondary school pupils have shown that they are determined to keep their children busy and positively engaged during the long holidays. For many pupils, it will no longer be leisure as usual. Unlike the past, spending the holidays at home may mean attending summer schools or helping out with the family business.

However, investigation by our correspondent shows that more parents seem to have found different ways of engaging their children. While some encourage, if not compel, their children to acquire certain skills that are not taught in school, especially vocational skills, others have decided to enroll them in summer schools to keep them busy till a new academic year begins in September.

Parents who cannot afford the extra cost of sending their children to summer school, like Mrs. Tola Kehinde, a resident of Abuja, have decided to get them busy in their businesses.

Explaining how she and her husband engaged their four children, Kehinde said, “Summer school is for those who can afford it. We decided to take them to the shop instead. My two sons accompany their father to his shop where he sells plumbing materials. The purpose is to make them learn the trade. They are both five and eight years-old, respectively. Even my younger son already knows the uses of the different tools in the shop.

“The girls are always with me in my restaurant. They help me to serve food to my customers. They are both in secondary school. When they are on a long holiday, I allow my workers go on break. I don’t have to pay my daughters for working in my restaurant.”

Also, another parent, Mr Tobechukwu Obi, told our correspondent that his son had been spending the holidays with him in the shop. He said, “What my son does during the holiday is not negotiable. He always comes with me to the shop. Now he knows the uses of all the screwdrivers in the shop.”

Apart from parents deciding how their children spend the holidays, some schools are also keeping their pupils busy by engaging them in the world of work. One of such schools is the Federal Science and Technical College, Ijebu-Imusin, Ogun State.

A 15-year-old SS2 pupil of the school, Master Chukwuemelie Adesanya, who is currently undergoing two month industrial training in Lagos, described the experience as positive. “I started this month and they treat me like a member of their staff. I do not receive calls at work or sit around chatting and I wake up at 5am, nowadays. In fact, this has taught me to be more responsible and disciplined,” he said.

In Ugbowo, Benin City, Edo State, a facilitator of comprehensive sexuality education at Girls Power Initiative, Mrs Rahmat Asemota, said she did not lean towards holiday lessons because she and her husband took turns to look after their children.

She said, “When I have to go to work and their father is on duty, I take them to my mum’s place. They go with their assignments and complete them before I return from work. Whenever their father is not on duty, he stays with them at home and gives them some academic work to do. This is very productive because whatever they learn stays.

“On the days that I don’t have to go out, we play, learn, eat, tell stories, ask and answer loads of questions or settle disputes. I thought of enrolling them in summer school, but it is a waste of time.”

Furthermore, Mrs Chidinma Okoli, a photographer, said she chose summer school for her children because they preferred the extra lessons to spending the holidays idling at home.

“My son is over two years-old, but he enjoys attending summer school. While there, he plays, sings nursery rhymes, learns the English alphabets and eats snacks. For him, it is fun.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]