Pupils must be taught safety measures – Don
Tare Youdeowei

At the unveiling of a textbook, Security and Safety Education, for JSS one to three pupils, the book reviewer, Prof Oladele Osibanjo, urged schools, parents and security experts, to teach children, from an early age, about safety.

Osibanjo, who was a chemistry lecturer for 40 years at the University of Ibadan, gave the charge at the first graduation ceremony of Slegg Flourish Schools, Opic Estate, Ogun State.

He said, “Nigeria is very lucky to have the author as a citizen. Many of us take safety and security for granted because God has been protecting us.

“We are in a time when people do not want to work but they want to eat, that is why crime has not only become rampant, it has also become dynamic. As such, this book on safety is apt. But the job is not yet complete, you need to write books for teachers, to guide them on teaching safety.

“The book is divided into seven chapters and has 78 pages. It serves JSS one to three and I highly recommend it because the earlier we introduce children to safety, the better, because we would be delivering them into a safe future.”

He said parents should not be afraid of disciplining their children so they do not become the perpetrators of vices.

Implementation of the recommendations in this book will surely give a profound improvement in the society at large,” Osibanjo said.

Driven by his security background and love for education, the Proprietor of Slegg Flourish Schools, Mr Pius Omolade, said he saw the lack of textbooks needed to teach security education which was introduced into the curriculum as a result of the rising security issues in the country.

“Based on my experience as a security and safety advisor with Exxon Mobil, and based on the stipulation of the curriculum, I wrote the book. It contains roles and responsibilities of stakeholders. If they perform their roles, schools will be well secured.

“Staff, students, parents and administrators have a role to play. There are also recommendations in the book for schools. Parents have a chapter on keeping the home safe, being security conscious and scrutinising caregivers.

“Managing tricksters when they come to the home, which can even be relatives, guidelines of using telephones, never saying you are alone, as well as emergency call lines are also provided in the book.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]