Yoruba: Osun distributes talking pens to schools
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Osun State Government has started distributing talking pens to schools to aid the learning of the Yoruba Language.

The Chairman of the Osun State Universal Basic Education Board, Chief Felix Awofisayo, and the Permanent Secretary of SUBEB, Fatai Kolawole, supervised the distribution of the pens and other instructional materials to schools.

Awofisayo, in his address, said the distribution of the talking pens and story books was aimed at addressing the inability of some pupils to speak and read Yoruba language fluently.

He said, “The materials and equipment, in addition to the availability of highly motivated and competent teachers with pedagogical skills and effective school leaders, will lead to the achievement of a high standard of education, since education remains the key to both growth and development globally.

“The distribution of these materials is a demonstration of the government’s resolve to improve the education sector. With this, God willing, we will ensure that our children develop the skills and knowledge that will make them to be self-reliant.”

He urged pupils to make use of the Yoruba talking pens and other story books to help themselves to be more proficient in the speaking and writing of Yoruba.

According to him the purchase of instructional materials has been a priority of the government because the government is aware of the importance of these materials in effective teaching and learning.

The permanent secretary said the state government was happy that Governor Rauf Aregbesola’s investment in school infrastructure had started yielding positive results.

The permanent secretary said this on the sidelines of the distribution of Yoruba talking pens.

Kolawole said, “This administration has invested over N10 billion in infrastructural development in schools in the state since Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola assumed office. We are happy that none of the projects was abandoned and none was shabbily executed.

“The investment in education is yielding positive results and we are happy that we are making progress. Anybody can go to WAEC or NECO and check the performance of our pupils since the administration came into office.

“We are not completely satisfied yet because it is not 100 per cent, but we are looking towards getting 100 per cent performance and we shall get there. I am happy that this investment is yielding positive result.”

He said all the infrastructure development in public schools in the state was unprecedented, saying public schools in the state could now rank among the best anywhere in the world in terms of conducive environment for teaching and learning.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]