NCE approves separation of Religious Studies, National Values in schools
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The National Council on Education on Thursday approved the separation of Christian Religious Studies, Islamic Studies and National Values in the curricula for primary and secondary schools nationwide, noting that they must now be taught as stand-alone subjects.

The NCE also said that “critical stakeholders”, such as the Christian Association of Nigeria and the Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, among others, were involved in the separation process.

The NCE, which is the highest policy-making body on education in Nigeria, stated this in a communiqué issued at the end of its 63rd meeting in Abuja.

The theme of the meeting was, ‘Funding of Education for the Achievement of Education 2030 Agenda.’

Our correspondent learnt that the Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council carried out the separation of the subjects after members of the public kicked against the initial merging of the curricula under a subject, then known as Religious and National Values.

According to the communiqué, the NCE approved the separation of the religious studies henceforth.

The communiqué partly reads, “The NCE approved the separated Christian Religious Studies Curriculum, Islamic Studies Curriculum and National Values Curriculum for implementation in primary and junior secondary schools nationwide. It has also approved the teaching, learning and assessment of CRS, IS and National Values as stand-alone subjects at the basic education level.

“It also approved the re-establishment of the State Education Development Fund and other funds to create additional but sustainable sources of funding so as to improve education service delivery in the country.”

The body also observed that insurgents and other armed groups had targeted schools, pupils and teaching personnel, killing and maiming or kidnapping them, as well as destroying the schools.

The statement said there was no deliberate and carefully crafted policy by the Federal Government to ensure that schools were insulated from attacks. It described the missing Chibok girls and the recent kidnapping of female pupils in Dapchi as evidence that schools in the country were no longer safe for teaching and learning.

“There are no standard measures for schools to adopt, in relation to safety and security of schools,” it said, stressing that a National Policy on Safety and Security in Schools in Nigeria would help to mitigate the insecurity in the education sector.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]