Foundation trains 785 pupils on life skills
Dayo Ojerinde

The Pyramid Educational Advancement Foundation has trained 785 senior secondary school pupils drawn from Alimosho, Agege and Ifako-Ijaiye local government areas of Lagos State on life skills, teamwork and interpersonal skills.

Speaking on the idea behind the two-day training programme, the Executive Director of Pyramid Educational Foundation, Mr Adedapo Conde, said it was put together to equip the pupils with skills that would enable them to succeed in life and to keep them busy during the holidays.

Conde also called on all stakeholders in the education sector to put all necessary mechanism in place to promote the reading culture among Nigerians.

He said, “One of the things we have done in the PEA Foundation was to we set up libraries in public schools and underserved communities, as well as to mentor young people. So far, we have set up four public libraries. Three of them are in public schools and one is in a community. Admission to the facilities is free to members of the public.

“I think society needs to do more by investing in libraries to encourage reading culture. We keep talking about poor reading culture, what is the society doing about it? Are we putting up enough infrastructures? Are we creating platforms for people to read?”

While speaking on ‘Identity, peer pressure, managing parental expectations and making choices’ at the event, the Managing Director of Yao Insurance Brokers Limited, Mrs. Enitan Solarin, listed the social media, self-comparison, negative commentary, anxiety and age as some of the factors that affect individual self-esteem.

Solarin, therefore, advised the pupils to discover themselves and identify what they are good at doing.

“Knowing who you are is crucial in managing relationships and making decisions as there are weightier decisions in life that require careful consideration,” she said.

Also, Mrs Toyin Omotayo, who was one of the organisers, urged the pupils to allow passion, rather than money, to guide them in choosing a career or profession.

“Every profession can make you rich, but it depends on you to discover yourself. Some people are going to be traders and they will make a fortune from it. We can’t all take up white collar jobs. Choose right and prepare well. That is all that matters at this stage of your,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]