FUTO recalls expelled students
Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri

There was jubilation at the Federal University of Technology, Owerri, Imo

State on Monday as the management recalled nine final-year students of the institution who were expelled for leading a protest on the main campus.

It would be recalled that the matter had led to a case between the expelled students and the university authorities at the Federal High Court in Owerri.

FUTO, our correspondent gathered, decided to recall the students after the management reached an agreement with counsel to the students to settle the matter out of court.

The students, namely, Collins Ogbenna, Ugwu Collins, Madu Nnamdi, Elvis Onuoha, Kenneth Megwa, Odunze Ebuka, Chizoba Ukaegbu, Chike Fred and Victor Ihuka, had on February 17,2017, led a protest against arbitrary hikes in tuition fees, hostel and examination fees, as well as ICT fees.

The demonstration had not gone down well with the management of the university, which went on to expel the nine students.

A recall memo signed by the Registrar of the university and the Secretary to the Senate, Mr. Joseph Nnabuihe, notified the expelled students of the ratification of their studentship of the institution.

The memo, which was obtained by our correspondent on Sunday, disclosed that the decision to recall the expelled student activists was reached at the 437th meeting of the institution’s senate.

It warned the recalled nine student activists to desist from actions that would warrant further disciplinary action against them.

The memo read in part, “The Senate at its 437th meeting held on Tuesday, July, 2018, ratified the amnesty granted by the Vice-Chancellor to the students who were expelled for their involvement in the planning and execution of a violent demonstration on Friday ,February 17,2019.

“In view of the above decision of the senate ,you are hereby recalled to complete your studies in the Federal University of Technology, Owerri,from the 2018/2019 academic session.

“Your recall is, however, subject to your payment of a surcharge and signing of an undertaking to be of good behavior for the rest of your studentship in the university.

“You are warned to desist from any action that would warrant disciplinary action against you from the university in future.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]