Makinde pledges to improve education in Oyo
Oladimeji Ramon

A governorship aspirant in Oyo on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party in Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, has described the annual budgetary allocation to education in the state as too low to fulfil the people’s need for quality education.

Lamenting that the allocation was still 2.5 per cent at a time when the United Nations Education and Cultural Organisation recommended that it should 26 per cent of the state’s budget, Makinde promised to make education one of his priorities, if given a chance to serve the state.

As part of efforts to improve the quality of education in the state, he said if elected, he would bring back the 30-pupils-per-classroom initiative.

Makinde was quoted in a statement made available to our correspondent on Thursday as saying this while giving bursaries to 2,500 students of tertiary institutions from the state.

According to the statement signed by Prince Dotun Oyelade, more than 10,000 students had benefitted from the bursary scheme which Makinde started in 2006.

“The issue of education goes beyond politics and that is why I have kept faith with my conviction to empower the youths through education for 12 unbroken years now,” Makinde said.

He added that the creative model of government, which he wished to run if elected, would encourage buoyant corporate organisations to adopt a public school to assist.

A former Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Prof. Taoheed Adedoja, who was chairman on the occasion, said the future of the youths could only be guaranteed through investment in education and self development.

Dignitaries at the event included Dr Saka Balogun and former head of the Methodist Church of Nigeria, Primate Ola Makinde, who advised the students to use the money for educational and self development purposes.

Senator Kamoru Adedibu, Chief Jacob Adetoro, Engr Lere Adigun, the Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Oyo State branch, Pastor B. O. Akanmu and representative of the Chief Imam of Ibadan, Sheik Abdul Ganiyu Agbotomokekere also graced the occasion.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]