Nigeria’s curriculum inadequate to meet industry needs
Tare Youdeowei

The Group Managing Director, Vitafoam, Mr Taiwo Adeniyi, has said that the country’s curriculum is inadequate to meet dynamic industry needs.

He recommended that creativity be emphasised in the curriculum to bridge the gap.

Adeniyi made the call at the i-Create inter-schools Pillow Art Challenge held in Ikeja, Lagos, designed to develop the creative potential of young ones across 20 private schools in the state.

He said, “The pillow competition is to encourage the young ones to be creative as this is one way they can stand them out in any field of human endeavour. The creativity of the young ones has not been emphasised in our nation’s curriculum and this should be addressed.

“I say this because, we in the industry have seen that because there is no meeting point between town and gown, institutions of learning are not producing graduates that can fit into the system. If creativity is encouraged, children will learn to be innovative and adapt to whatever the work environment throws at them.”

On her part, the Marketing Manager, Berger Paint Nigeria Plc, Mrs Funmi Lawal, stated that the company’s involvement in the competition was in consonance with its goal of nurturing creativity through colours.

Speaking on the competition, the founder of I-Create Club, Mrs Eniola Afolayan, said, “The challenge involved 20 private secondary schools whose submissions were displayed at a Pillow Gallery and the guests did blind voting which led to the determination of the top winners. The competition was in three steps in which students were required to create a pillow art and submit for grading by their teachers,” she said.

The first position was won by Miss Lois Akere of the University of Lagos Women Society Nursery and Primary School, who went away with a complete bed and television set.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]