Ondo community begins renovation of dilapidated schools
Peter Dada, Akure

Residents of Ile-Oluji community in the Ile-Oluji/Oke-Igbo Local Government Area of Ondo State have embarked on a self-help project to renovate dilapidated public schools in the town and save them from total collapse.

Our correspondent gathered that an organisation, known as the Education Development Group of Ile-Oluji Assembly, had so far spent the sum of N250m on the project, tagged, Education Rebirth Project.

The chairperson of the group, Mrs. Adun Akinyemiju, said its vision was to restructure and transform public schools situated in the agrarian community.

Akinyemiju also noted that the group planned to mobilise support toward the renovation of dilapidated public school structures and to provide basic facilities, such as toilets, perimeter fences, libraries, furniture, science laboratories and modern classrooms, among others.

She disclosed that the project would focus on overhauling the physical infrastructure of the 14 public secondary schools in the town and enhance the capacity of teachers through teacher development programmes, as well as inculcate leadership and personal development skills in the pupils.

She said, “This three-pronged approach is expected to ensure that pupils have the right attitude to learning and that teachers have what it takes to impact knowledge in the pupils in a conducive learning environment.

“Seven of the 14 schools will be under focus during the first phase of the education rebirth project. The structures are totally in a mess due to neglect over the years. No meaningful learning can take place in this horrible environment.

“We appreciate the fact that the state government cannot shoulder these responsibilities alone.”

Akinyemiju called on the old pupils of the schools, parents, guardians and eminent indigenes of the town all over the world to contribute in cash and kind to the project.

“We definitely cannot do this alone. We appeal to indigenes and friends of Ile-Oluji all over the world to rally round us and ensure that education retain its pride of place in the community,” she urged.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]