6% budgetary provision not adequate for education —Minister
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Minister of State for Education, Prof. Anthony Anwukah, has said that the education sector received only six per cent of the budgetary allocation for education in the 2017 National Budget.

Anwukah stated this on Wednesday at the 63rd National Council on Education conference in Abuja.

The minister said the provision of adequate funding for the education sector was important for Nigeria to achieve its Education 2030 Agenda.

He said, “The task of funding education is the collective responsibility of all stakeholders, corporate and private organisations in order to meet the UNESCO global benchmark.

“In the 2017 appropriation Act, N448.01bn was allocated to education, representing about six per cent of the N7.3tn budget. In 2018, about N369.6bn was appropriated, N492.34bn in 2015, N443bn in 2014 and N426.53bn in 2013; all of which are still less than adequate for the essential development of the education sector.

“The sector is characterised by increased enrolment, low perception of the value of education, early marriage, lack of infrastructural facilities and instructional materials among others.

“Therefore, to address the current situation, it is necessary that all stakeholders must collaborate and cooperate with government in raising the standard of education by increasing the investment in education.”

Also, the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, said it was the Federal Government’s firm belief that there was an urgent need to overhaul the sector.

The minister said that with a population of over 170million, the burden on education had become overwhelming on the three tiers of government.

He said, “Since the Federal Government committed six per cent of its 2017 budget to education, which is far below the United Nations benchmark, what is the responsibility of states, parents and multinational companies in bridging the gap and providing the education sector the much needed lifeline?

“On the Safe School Initiative of the government, the programme has transferred 2,274 internally displaced children from Adamawa, Borno, and Yobe States to 43 Federal Government Colleges. In collaboration with the United Nations Children’s Fund.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]