FG to establish varsity for deaf people
Friday Olokor, Abuja

The Federal Government has reached an agreement with Gallaudet University in the United States for the establishment of a University for the Deaf either in Abuja or Shagamu, Ogun State.

The Nigerian National Association of the Deaf, which broke the news, also said that a series of meetings had been held with the National Universities Commission, Federal Ministry of Education, National Assembly leadership and the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board on the proposed university.

Others involved in the meetings included the African Democratic Bank, Tertiary Education Trust Fund and many other stakeholders.

The promoters of the institution said that a site visit to Gallaudet University had also been scheduled to take place between October 28 and November 1, 2019.

The National Vice President of NNAD, Mohammed Adelani, stated this in an exclusive interview with The PUNCH on Monday in Abuja, during a programme to commemorate the international day of sign languages.

The event was organised by Disability Inclusive Development, Christoffel Blinden Mission, Inclusive Friends Association, Abuja Association of the Deaf and Joint National Association of Persons With Disabilities, with support from the National Human Rights Commission and British Council.

Adelani said, “Gallaudet University in the United States of America is the only Deaf University in the world. Many people with hearing impairment in Nigeria and Africa attend the university. It is the dream of everyone with this challenge in the world to have Gallaudet experience.

“So, to make it accessible to such class of people, Gallaudet University is making efforts to collaborate with Wesley University and Nigerian National Association of the Deaf to establish Gallaudet University campus in Nigeria so that they can have access to Gallaudet experience of all-round education.

“We are still at the foundation stage to get other relevant stakeholders from government and the international community. A series of meetings have been held with the NUC, FME, NASS, JAMB, World Bank, AfDB, TETFUND and many others.

“A site visit to Gallaudet University has been scheduled for between October 28 and November 1 2019 with many others willing to attend. It is expected to be the established at Abuja or Shagamu in Ogun State. The NUC is very much aware about the project and series of meetings have been held with the commission; they are very committed to the project.”

A joint communique issued after the event also called on the Federal Government to, as a matter of urgency, establish a commission for persons with disabilities to expedite action on inclusion process and mainstreaming disability in governance for the next level agenda.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]