Independence: Oyo organises essay competition
Ademola Babalola, Ibadan

As part of the activities lined up for the Independence Day celebrations, the Oyo State Government on Thursday held a one-day essay competition for primary and secondary school pupils in the state.

The event, packaged by the Ministry of Youths and Sports, in collaboration with the State Ministry of Education Science and Technology and themed, ‘Nigeria and the challenges of insecurity in the 21st century,’ featured selected schools, such as L.A Primary School, Isale Oyo; Rehoboth Nursery and Primary School; and Community Primary School, Sasa, Ibadan.

The other schools that participated in the competition were Queen of Apostles Secondary School, Ibadan; Igbo Ora High School, Igbo Ora; Corner Stone Model College; and The Pacesetter Comprehensive College, Oluyole, Ibadan, among others.

In his welcome address, the Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Seun Fakorede, commended the pupils for their impressive performance and urged them to always give their best during academic exercises.

He implored the pupils to strive hard in order to attain greater heights in the future, while appreciating the teachers for investing so much time and effort in their future.

“It is a thing of joy that we can still have pupils from our public schools performing so well at an external academic exercise like this one. It shows that the investment of this current administration on education is yielding good results.

“I want to urge you to keep up the good work our teachers are helping you to do and put in your best to achieve excellence in all that you do,” Fakorede said.

The Commissioner for Education, Prof Kehinde Shangodoyin, represented by a deputy director at the ministry, Mrs Abiodun Bisi, advised the participants to imbibe the sense of love for one another, as well as for humanity because God created every living being to impact positively on humanity.

L.A Primary School, Isale Oyo emerged the winner of the competition among the primary schools, while Pace Setter Comprehensive College took the first position among the secondary schools that took part in the competition.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]