Principal lauds MECCOSA alumni for classrooms renovation
Femi Makinde

The principal of the Methodist Comprehensive College Junior School, Sagamu in Osun State, Dr Ayodele Womiloju, has lauded the 1992 set of the old pupils of the school for rehabilitating a block of four classrooms.

Speaking at the handover ceremony, Womiloju said the gesture of the set was highly commendable inch she said was worthy of emulation by others in order to improve conditions of many public schools in the country.

She described the ‘92 set as good ambassadors and hailed them for taking up the renovation of the classrooms which she said was the biggest of all the projects.

She said, “ The dilapidated conditions of all the classrooms have been a major concern for us since I assumed office. The rehabilitation is highly commendable and we promise to take good care of the buildings and everything there.”

The President of Methodist Comprehensive College Old Students’ Association ( 1992 set) , Taiwo Oteju, said the project was a way of giving back to the school and one of the activities to commemorate its 50th anniversary of the school.

He said the old students were moved to tears with the magnitude of infrastructural decay in the school that produced great minds, saying this made them to

Oteju said, “It is worthy of note this level of infrastructural decay that was witnessed in this school for quite some time. This decay permeates all the individual structures of the school including laboratories, classrooms, hostels, toilet facilities, staff quarters, sporting facilities, roofing sheets, ceiling, floor, windows etc.

“It became so bad that a visit to the school would move you to tears, considering the level of dilapidation of the facilities in a school that was once the first among the best.

“This is a school that was once the cynosure of all eyes, a school that shone like a million stars in academics, arts, science, humanities, social activities, sports, students’ discipline, moral upbringing and many more.”

He said the set would do more depending on how well the students maintained the renovated classrooms.

The Chairman Project Committee of the set, Mr Jasau Taiwo, appreciated all member home and abroad as well as the school management for their cooperation and conducive environment provided for the team during the execution of the project.

The Vice National Chairman of the Old students’ association, Mr Bayo Osinaike, who represented the national body, while handing over the keys to the classrooms to the principal also lauded the ‘92 set for their effort to improve their former school.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]