Class of ’93 donates furniture to Lagos school
Seun Adesoye

The Class ’93 of Ewutuntun Grammar School, Mafoluku, Lagos, on Tuesday donated school furniture to the school to create conducive environment for learning.

Dr Edino Idoko, the President, Alumni Association of the school, said, while presenting the furniture, that the old students donated 30 sets of school tables and chairs worth about N300,000 to the school.

Idoko said that it was important for every student to have their individual table and chair to ensure effective learning.

“We left this institution in 1993; as a set, we have donated a lot of items and facilities to the school such as borehole, computer, printer, among others.

“We chose to donate school furniture this time, because of the recent fire incident that destroyed some of the classrooms.

“My set decided to provide school furniture because this school made us to be whom we are today; it imparted knowledge on us and laid the foundation for our future,” he said.

Idoko said that part of the reasons for the set’s effort was to put some burdens off the shoulders of the state government.

The set president also urged the state government to take more proactive steps toward upgrading facilities in public schools.

“Government really needs to start building more schools, renovate old ones and build our youths who are the future leaders of this country.

“The standard of education has really dropped compared to what it was some years ago; public schools are now being neglected, most parents now send their children to private schools,” he said.

In her reactions, Mrs Grace Oderinde, the Principal, Ewutuntun Senior Grammar School, described the donation as a blessing to the school at the moment.

“The state government is doing so much, they cannot do everything alone.

“This is the reason the alumni and other stakeholders need to support the system,” she said.

Oderinde urged the state government to construct a good drainage system to tackle flooding during the rainy season.

“We experience flooding during the rainy season, meaning that a lot of activities will be disrupted; we need help in this direction,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]