Greensprings schools set for innovative technology labs
Fisayo Odumuyiwa

With the aim of preparing pupils for the jobs of the future and bridging the existing gap between education and the industry, Greensprings Schools has said it is set to unveil its array of innovative technology laboratories on October 15.

The school made this known through its Deputy Director of Education, Dr Barney Wilson, during a briefing held at the school’s Anthony campus on Thursday.

Wilson also lamented that if pupils of today were not exposed to drones, virtual reality, cybernetics, neuro-networks nor augmented reality then they were not being prepared for the future that is already here.

He said, “We want to continue to shape the education landscape of the country. So we are introducing the Labs at Greensprings which will help to provide the workforce and leadership team for the future in Nigeria, Africa and the world. There are several labs that we will be opening. They will have themes and represent cutting edge technology. For instance, the Air and Sea Laboratory will allow pupils to explore and research every aspect of air and water. They would seek to understand what is happening in the environment and come out with cutting-edge solutions to issues affecting the country and the world.

“The pupils in that lab will be involved in building underwater robots and learning to fly air planes. They will explore, not only sea crafts but all the creatures of the sea, the ecosystem and how things work. Another laboratory will be the Virtual and Augmented Reality Lab where the technology would be used to explore the different aspects of education, science and world issues. We will also be building a business incubator where pupils will start businesses that will impact Nigeria and the world,” Wilson said.

The deputy director of education added that two college, career and university readiness centres were underway where the pupils will be able to explore colleges and universities of their choice, guided by professionals, in matching their credentials and making the best choice.

Speaking on the addition to the pupils’ activities, the Executive Director of the school, Mrs Lai Koiki, said the curriculum was adjusted to avoid over burdening the pupils.

Koiki said, “What we do is to ensure that our children are prepared for the future and whatever it is that will make that happen, we do. So, this new session, knowing fully well that this is the digital age, we want to expose this children to the realities of the future. This is so that they will be prepared even when they get into environments that are not like ours. Beyond that, it is to equip them to impact our environment positively with the gains of the digital world.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]