Group presents textbooks, instructional materials to Ekiti community
Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti

The Prof Oluwole and Mrs Mojisola Akindahunsi Public Beneficiary Initiative has presented 400 units of textbooks and other instructional materials for the use of students of Igbemo Ekiti community.

A United States of America-based indigene of the community, Prof. Oluwole Akindahunsi, who made the donation said he and his family had always desired to give back to the community.

Akindahunsi, who spoke at Igbemo Ekiti in the Irepodun/Ifelodun Council Area of Ekiti State while presenting textbooks and other instructional materials to students in the community, also expressed support for the idea of extending the family’s yearly scholarship to the neighbouring Orun Ekiti community.

He said, “The Onigbemo should provide two students and the Olorun should provide one student formally for the Prof Oluwole and Mrs Mojisola Akindahunsi Scholarship Foundation”.

The Deputy Governor of Ekiti State, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, who praised the donor’s gesture, urged other well-meaning and privileged Ekiti indigenes to emulate him by giving indigent pupils in the state more access to education.

Egbeyemi, who said the gesture would also cement the relationship between the two communities urged their traditional rulers to allow peace to facilitate development.

He called on privileged indigenes of the communities within and outside the country to key into the ongoing reforms in order to reposition the education sector.

Egbeyemi added, “The state government should not be left alone with the task of lifting education, hence the need to partner with the private sector and development agencies to regain Ekiti’s lost glory in the sector.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]