80 % of Osun corps members to teach in schools
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The National Youth Service Corps has said that 80 per cent of corps members deployed in Osun State will be posted to teach in secondary schools across the 30 local government areas of the state.

The Coordinator of the NYSC in Osun State, Mr. Emmanuel Attah, said this on Thursday in an interview with our correspondent on the sidelines of the opening ceremony of 2018 Batch B orientation course at the NYSC Camp in Ede.

Attah said corps members had contributed immensely to the development of education in the state, saying they had impacted positively on the lives of pupils by bringing their training and experience to bear while performing the national assignment.

Attah said, “We have so far registered 2,292 corps members and about 80 per cent of those deployed in the state will be deployed in secondary schools to teach.

“Corps members have been performing wonderfully well and I believe they have been doing their best and the state will not forget their contributions. Each stage has peculiar needs and they are needed in schools here.

“The education sector is a very good place where they can exhibit their skills and knowledge. They will start giving back to society by teaching the pupils and I think it is a good one.

“We are also urging the corps members to as much as possible, make themselves relevant through selfless service, diligence and faithful discharge of their duties both in camp and after.

“They should utilise this one year of service by making everyday, every week, every month count. They need to add value to themselves so much so that they would become too relevant to be ignored after the service year.”

Governor Rauf Aregbesola, who was present at the ceremony, urged the corps members to be disciplined and shun social vices.

He said, “I know this orientation programme has been designed to instill in you the tenacity, discipline and other virtues that you need as individuals to succeed in life, so you must see it as a new form of responsibility which you must embrace.

“There is also something very sensitive which you must bear in mind all through your service year. You must ensure that you don’t have any political affiliation as this may taint the image of the NYSC during the conduct of elections organised by INEC in the country.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]