Proprietor advises pupils on leadership
Oyetunji Abioye

The Chairman of Good Shepherd School, Dr. Adebayo Oyeyemi, has urged graduating pupils of the school to prepare themselves to become leaders of tomorrow who will rescue the country from its many challenges.

Oyeyemi spoke duirng the valedictory service and prize-giving ceremony of Good Shepherd Schools, Meiran Campus, Lagos and Atan, Ogun State respectively.

Oyeyemi said the school had equipped the graduating pupils with the skills needed to succeed in a changing world, adding that the education offered by the school was without corruption and examination malpractice.

The educationist observed that the nation was facing several challenges which had lead to the threatening of peace and unity, political and economic landscape, among others, but noted that the graduating students had been taught creativity, self-worth, a value-driven lifestyle and other qualities to rescue Nigeria from collapse.

“The solutions to Nigeria’s problems lie in the hands of Nigerians. And you are the Nigerians to undertake that task. That is what you are called for. Godliness is the tool you require to rescue our dear nation from the brink of collapse,” he said in a statement issued by the school.

Earlier, the Vice Chancellor, Anchor University, Lagos, Prof. Joseph Afolayan, said the nation’s educational system had no idea about what to do with creativity in schools, saying that many graduates had no clue of what being creative meant after leaving school.

“There are more cases of joblessness today caused by lack of creativity than those caused by lack of jobs. And more than 90 per cent of poor people globally would have been able to better their lots if only they could think beyond the materials they studied in the classrooms,” he said.

Afolayan, who was the guest speaker at the prize-giving event, said while conventional education was good, the best form of education was self-education, stressing that conventional education did not automatically confer on one the gown of success, noting that it should open one’s mind to the track and strategies for success.

Speaking at the valedictory service in Atan, Ogun State, Prof. K.T. Odusami of the Department of Building, University of Lagos, said education must focus on creativity in order for young minds to maximise their potentials.

He contended that in the 21st Century, education would have to de-emphasise certificate and emphasise creativity, “that is, thinking outside the box,” stressing that creativity required long hours of deep thoughts.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]