OAU to host youths, others at Festival of Food
Akeem Lasisi

The Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, has concluded plans to hold the 2018 edition of the Ife Festival of the Arts.

The programme, to be held through OAU’s Institute of Cultural Studies is tagged, ‘Festival of Food and Identity’, with the institution’s management saying it was in the spirit of revival and resuscitation of the deep religious convergence, heterogeneity and conference which the Ife Civilisation represents, which also informed its motto, ‘For Learning and Culture’.

A release from the Public Relations Officer of the university, Abiodun Olanrewaju, indicated that this year’s edition was designed to highlight, showcase and celebrate the creativity of the Yoruba and African indigenous traditions in feeding and supporting itself.

Olanrewaju added, “It will be presented within a carnival fair audience from Monday 30 July to Saturday 4 August, 2018. It not only seeks to enshrine the place and memory of the indigenous food ways in the psycho of the youth, but also to reiterate the capability to survive as a people through the adoption and preservation of close and relevant food and material culture.

The 2018 festival, the release added, was conceived to focus on the entire food chain from the earth to the stomach, documenting the processes involved in food production, preparation, preservation and storage, as well as embracing an exhibition of prepared indigenous dishes, ingredients, flavouring, spices, protein sources, delicacies, drinks, crops, fruits, vegetables, etc. from various parts of Nigeria, Africa and elsewhere, especially those disappearing from the daily menu.

“The festival will also showcase performances in the form of traditional and contemporary dances, films and documentaries, theatre, concerts and traditional games related to food and identity. Other features and highlights are food exhibitions and fair at the festival village; children cuisine; celebrity cooking corner; art and craft zone; art and photo exhibition; mouth and dental care corner, and colloquium.

“Among the eminent personalities being expected are the Nobel Laureate and Emeritus Professor of Dramatic Arts, Wole Soyinka, who is the Festival Chief Adviser, and the President of the Africa Development Bank, Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, who will deliver the keynote address at the festival colloquium.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]