UBE projects: UDI warns monitors against taking bribes
Akeem Lasisi

The Executive Director, Human Development Initiatives, Mrs. Olufunso Owasanoye, has urged stakeholders rallied to monitor the Universal Basic Education projects in Lagos State to shun all forms of corruption.

Owasanoye particularly cautioned them against taking bribes from contractors handling the projects.

She gave the warning while speaking during a three-day ‘Training on Monitoring and Tracking of UBE Projects for Stakeholders in Lagos State’.

Describing the event as a follow-up to the rounds of sensitisation programmes conducted in the participants’ respective local government areas, she said, “You are ambassadors of both Human Development Initiatives and the Lagos State Government in monitoring UBE projects. I implore you to put in your best and write your name in gold. Shun any form of argument or collection of bribes from contractors on site. If you do so, there are grave consequences.”

The project is targeted at ensuring that education goods and services get delivered to schools.

Involved in it are ministries of education, the UBE, its state equivalents, local government educational authorities, parents, community-based organisations, traditional and religious leaders and civil society organisations.

The HDI is currently monitoring nine local government areas in Lagos, including Agege, Ajeromi,-Ifelodun, Amuwo-Odofin, Apapa and Ibeju-Lekki.

Others are Mushin, Ojo, Shomolu and Surulere.

On the importance of the project supported by the Mac Arthur Foundation, the HDI director linked it to the need for a broad-based and sustainable mechanism for monitoring the UBE projects.

According to her, it is the product of commitment and passion.

Owasanoye added at the programme held at Rita Lori Hotels, Surulere, “It is about commitment, from our esteemed partner, the MacArthur Foundation, working in synchrony with our passion to see basic education succeed in Lagos State. This training can come at no better time than now when education, especially basic education, is in dire need of the support of all stakeholders. Every child in Lagos State must have access to quality basic education, vis-a-viz standard educational infrastructure and service delivery.”

The training aimed to equip the stakeholders to support existing government-instituted measures in the area of monitoring and evaluation, while also seeking to strengthen their capacity in advocating for positive change in the implementation of Lagos SUBEB 2016 Action Plan.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]