93% of our pupils had distinctions in WASSCE – Principal
Dayo Ojerinde

The Principal of Emerald High School, Lagos, Mrs. Busola Adegbaju, has said that its pupils performed brilliantly in all the external examinations that took place in 2018.

Adegbaju said this during the graduation ceremony of the school recently held on the school premises, where she also noted that 93 per cent of the pupils passed all the subjects.

The principal noted that one of the graduating pupils, Miss Chidiebere Okoroafor, was recently honoured at the British Council Recognition and Outstanding Cambridge Learner Awards, held in Lagos, for achieving the highest mark in the English Language as a second language.

“Okoroafor was the best in Nigeria in this subject, taken in Cambridge IGCSE examination. This is the second time the British Council in Nigeria, in collaboration with its partners, Cambridge Assessment International Education, would recognise outstanding Cambridge learners. Emerald High School was also awarded the ‘Outstanding Cambridge Learner Awards -Top in Nigeria 2016,” Adegbaju said.

Not done with the high-flying results of the pupils in the internationally recognised examination, the principal said that many of those who took the 2018 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations scored over 300 marks, the highest score being 332.

“In the recently announced West African Senior School Certificate Examinations 2018 results, despite the gloomy picture painted of the overall national performance of candidates generally, Emerald High School scored 100 per cent pass in all the subjects sat for.

“Majority of the candidates entered for the WASSCE had A1 in seven subjects and B grades in two other subjects,” she added.

The Executive Director of the School, Mrs. Edna Obaze, in her remarks on the occasion, announced that she had already signed cheques running into millions of naira as part of the motivation for the teachers.

Obaze said she was going to miss the pupils, some of whom had been with the school right from crèche. The management, in appreciation of the loyalty of the parents whose children had been with the school from kindergarten, gave out awards to 18 parents in an emotional parting event.

The Chairman on the occasion and former Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission, Prof. Peter Okebukola, urged the pupils to be focused and to continue to be serious in their respective academic pursuits.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]