PTDF stops petroleum scholarship programmes’ extension
Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja

The Petroleum Technology Development Fund has put an end to requests for extension of the petroleum scholarship programmes that are funded by the agency.

According to the PTDF, scholars must henceforth complete their programmes within the stipulated time, as the fund will no longer condone any form of extension, “except in extenuating circumstances.”

The agency’s Executive Secretary, Aliyu Gusau, who disclosed this at the 2018\\2019 PTDF Overseas Scholarship Scheme for MSc and PhD scholars under the United Kingdom Strategic Partnership in Abuja on Monday, told the beneficiaries that the fund would not be liable for any extension beyond the recommended periods.

He said, “We won’t accept requests for extension anymore from scholars. This means that you must finish within the stipulated time, which is about 36 months for PhD scholars and something a bit similar for those going for MSc programmes. The PTDF will not accept extension requests except in extenuating circumstances.

“The universities have allocated timelines for courses. So, it is not as if it is an open-ended thing, because each university has a specific time for you to complete a course. For this particular scholarship programme, we have about 122 MSc students and 76 PhD scholars for the UK.”

On the reduction in the number of PTDF’s partner universities in the UK from about 60 to 15, Gusau explained that the move was to strengthen the fund and help reduce the huge cost being expended.

He said, “Before, we allowed students to go round the UK, pick any university of their choice and we provided the scholarship. But that does not provide value for money. So, we decided that we want the best and we came up with about 15 universities, which are among the best in the UK.

“At the same time, there is an additional advantage for doing that. Now, we can sit down with the universities and guarantee a specific number, and also demand for discounts from the institutions. And, right now, we are getting discounts of between 15 and 20 per cent from the different universities, but this depends on the university.”

When probed further on the number of universities that the PTDF worked with a year ago, Gusau said, “Last year, we had about 60 different universities and that’s a very unhealthy number; but, right now, it has been cut down to about 15.”

He further stated that the PTDF would commence local scholarship programmes very soon, adding that the number of scholars would be higher than those on foreign programmes.

“We are going to commence the scholarship programmes for Nigerian universities possibly by the end of this month, and we expect the numbers to be higher than those of the foreign scholarships,” Gusau said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]