Students should join debate on climate change —Babcock VC
Tare Youdeowei

The Vice-Chancellor, Babcock University, Prof. Ademola Tayo, has called on Nigerian students to get involved in the global effort at resolving conflicts and the debate on issues surrounding climate change.

He made this call during the second edition of the Babcock International Model United Nations held on the main campus of the university in Ilisan-Remo, Ogun State, with the theme, ‘Addressing Climate Change-Induced Conflict: A Roadmap for Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals’.

Speaking at the event, in which the institution hosted student-delegates from 15 countries, the vice-chancellor said, “People have said that the UN was not living up to its expectation, but I beg to differ. When the UN started 70 years ago, we already had two world wars. From then till now, there have been ways the UN has been able to dialogue with countries to achieve a level of peace in the world and to avoid world war three, despite the fact that there are some troubled spots. That itself should be emulated

“To a large extent, if you look at the issue of climate change, the UN has had it on the front burner and it has achieved some level of improvement. Students should not be left out of the discourse because at their individual level, as well as on their campuses, they can impact the environment and invariable make a change for the future and the well-being of our planet.”

Explaining the link between climate change and conflict, the Chairman BIMUN 2018 press hub, Mrs. Salma Ibrahim, said, “Climate change influences conflict. For instance, areas affected with drought suffer food crises. So the people struggle to get access to limited resources. As a result, conflicts emerge. However, if capital is set out for conflict resolution by filling the gaps made by climate change, conflicts will gradually ease out.”

Also, the 32nd President of the General Conference of UNESCO, Prof. Micheal Omolewa, said, “Diplomacy involves ensuring that there is continued dialogue not conflicts. What each nation must strive to do is to be strong and self reliant enough to influence decisions and negotiations in their favour. However, everyone is involved in development and the UN is trying to build a world, in the young ones, where selfish interest is set aside.”

Declaring that the resolutions of the BIMUN would be followed through to the letter, the Executive Director, BIMUN, Mr Chiemela Samuel, said, “I strongly believe that with the kind of local organising committee we have, we are going to go beyond talking to reducing the resolutions to practicable levels. Then, we will seek organisations to partner so as to make sure all the resolutions are implemented. That begins from the various campuses, whereby all the students know we are part of the solution not part of the problem.

“Activities, such as planting trees and avoiding plastic bags, as well as staying away from things that can lead to the depletion of the environment, will go a long way. Individually, we can be a solution, in our own little way, by making sure our climate is not affected by the way we live our lives,” Samuel said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]