LAUTECH fee hike can be reviewed — KPMG boss
Atoyebi, Ibadan

A Principal partner at KPMG, Mr Joseph Tegbe, has said that the alleged hike in tuition fee at the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso, Osun State, is not part of the recommendations of the firm when it audited the school.

The university was closed for eight months due to alleged lack of funding by the joint-owners, Oyo and Osun states, while the members of the institution’s staff also claimed that they were being owed several months’ salaries.

Although the university was recently reopened, the students have since threatened a showdown with the authorities amid rumours that the tuition fee has been hiked.

Reacting to the latest development, Tegbe said that KPMG did not recommend an increase in tuition fee. “My firm was invited to resolve the LAUTECH issue. We did a forensic review of the account and we diagnosed the issues. We recommended what had to be done. Since then, has there been any strike in the school?

“The issue of hike in tuition was not part of our recommendations. There has to be sustainability. Past administrations have made wrong decisions out of political considerations. There were schools that had more lecturers than students and the governor said this was not sustainable from an economic point of view,” Tegbe said.

He, however, said that the problem could be reviewed. “I have worked with Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State for eight years. If somebody has hiked school fees, you cannot just come and say that you will reverse it without understanding the basis for increasing the fee. I am privy to some information, but is it enough for me to draw a conclusion?

“Whatever is a contentious issue will be reviewed to get understanding. You should have also a proper understanding of how we got to where we are today. If there are things to do to ameliorate the circumstances, we will do them. I have been a partner in KPMG since 2002. One of the things we do is to proffer solutions to problems and we do not make political statements.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]