Pidgin is a threat to English —Don
Etim Ekpimah, Uyo

Prof Luke Eyoh of the Department of English Studies at the University of Uyo has said that the use of Pidgin English in Nigerian educational institutions and the short message service culture are threats to English language.

Eyoh made this known during the 63rd Inaugural Lecture of the university held on Monday, with the theme, ‘Nigerian Literature and the English Language in the Task of Nation-building: Revisiting Chinua Achebe’s vexed issue of Leadership’. He noted that the use of the pidgin variety, which is widely spoken in Nigeria, had put a lot of pressure on English language.

He added that the trend was amplified when the British Broadcasting Corporation began a Pidgin Service unit on August 21, 2017, as part of its focus on Africa.

Eyoh also pointed out that the GSM short message service culture posed another threat to the orthography of the language because the letters of the English alphabet were being distorted with Arabic numerals, even in official communication.

He said, “In the skill of speaking, the English language continues to receive pressure from English-based pidgin at school, on television and on radio in Nigeria.

“The letters in the English alphabet are being distorted or replaced with Arabic numerals, even in official communication. For example, ‘today’ is replaced with ‘2day’; ‘for’ with ‘4’; ‘you’ with ‘u’ and ‘your’ with ‘ur’.

“This phenomenon will delete the English orthography before the ascendancy of pidgin. Indeed, it may well be a part of the pidgin orthography.”

Eyoh said that despite the threat, the English Language had continued to be a unifying factor in the country and in nation-building.

He added that the English language had always been deployed in leadership to bring diverse groups together, advance technological breakthrough, teach and learn in the nation’s school system, as well as a requirement for admission into tertiary institutions.

The don also said there was a need to revive reading culture in Nigeria’s school system so that the thriving browsing culture would not replace the traditional reading culture.

He said, “In spite of the threats it has received, English language has continued to unite the 515 ethnic and linguistic groups in the country.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]