Cornerstone varsity appoints pioneer VC
Olufemi Atoyebi, Ibadan

The Governing Council of the Precious Cornerstone University, Ibadan, Oyo State, has announced a professor of microbiology, Kola Oloke, as the pioneer Vice-Chancellor of the institution.

The management of the university said the presentation of the VC was made ahead of the commencement of academic activities in the school on October 12, 2018.

Speaking during a briefing held to announce the appointment, the Presiding Bishop of the Sword of the Spirit Ministries and Promoter of the institution, Bishop Wale Oke, said the management arrived at the choice of Oloke after a rigorous search for a suitable hand to lead the school.

Oke said, “The philosophy of the university is to develop all-round personalities that will not just be academically sound, but also morally upright, original thinkers, job creators, people of possibility-thinking and people with dominion mentality.

“The VC is academically and spiritually qualified and we are grateful to the governing council for doing a thorough job in searching for a good hand. So many people were considered before the council picked Prof Oloke. I believe they have given us the best.”

The new vc, in his address, said he was part of the vision of the Promoter of the school. He promised to ensure that the management is not disappointed.

“We all know that the future of university education in Nigeria is hinged on how well private universities deliver. Many Nigerian graduates of private universities have been known to do well when they travel abroad to further their studies.

“This school is loaded with a lot of delivery, from a friendly pattern of paying school fees to emphasis on entrepreneurship, so that our graduates can be employers of labour. We have made adequate efforts to ensure that our accounting graduates are chartered accountants.”

The Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of the governing council, Dr Bayo Adegoke, as well as other members of the council, including Elder Wole Okunola, Dr John Fagbenro, Prelate Ayo Makinde and Prof Ben Emipe, also attended the event.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]