UNILAG produces 154 surgeons, 32 dentists
Tare Youdeowei

The College of Medicine, University of Lagos, has inducted 154 graduates of medicine and surgery and 32 dentists into the profession.

Speaking during the induction ceremony, which took place at the college’s New Great Hall, last Wednesday, the Provost of the college, Prof. Foluso Lesi, urged the graduates to be change agents and work with dignity.

Lesi said, “I congratulate the parents, families, well-wishers and friends of the graduands and pray that your joy and investment in them will yield bountiful harvest. I also congratulate their teachers for delivering qualitative teaching to these young doctors. I congratulate my young colleagues for finishing the race, as I welcome you to this noble profession.

“I enjoin you to be change agents. I want you to work with empathy, not sympathy. Strive to know more and don’t think that you know everything. The power to change a trend and nation resides in every individual as a change agent. I charge you to remember that if you are willing to do more than you are paid to do, eventually, you will be paid to do more than you do. I also want you to practise this profession with conscience and dignity, as well as actualise the leadership potential that most of you have already.”

Also addressing the inductees, the College Secretary, Mr Oladejo Azeez, said, “I congratulate the inductees for their clarity of mind that made them choose the University of Lagos. I also congratulate you for working so hard to earn the Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery and Bachelor of Dentary degrees. As such, you have been equipped with all you need to succeed in life and I wish you well as you move up in your career as doctors and dentists. I advise you to be worthy ambassadors of the university and do not forget your alma mater.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]