Visitor to Caleb varsity receives leadership award
Yinka Badejo

The Visitor to Caleb University, Imota, Lagos, Dr Ola Adebogun, has received the Pan-African Leadership Award from the Initiative for Positive Influence on African Youth.

The organisation, which is based in Accra, Ghana, decided to honour Adebogun for his “positive influence and inspiration” to youths in Africa.

The President of the initiative, Mr, David Christoph, represented by the Vice President, Kwassi Austin, recently presented the award to the recipient on the campus of Caleb University.

Christoph said, “Do your duties and history will do you good. Mahatma Gandhi may have aptly captured this epoch-making ceremony of conferring an honour on a distinguished public servant. When it comes to public service best practice, I’m talking about the remarkable Dr Oladega Adebogun, a rare gem, administrative icon, a true son of Africa.

“The initiative for Positive Influence on African Youth is a non-governmental and a non-political association with the aim of building a new Africa where unity, equality and love will be the order of the day, regardless of religion, tribe, sex, race, education, or political conviction, sensitising the youth on their role towards the socio-economic and political development of Africa.”

Adebogun was honoured due to his immense contribution to nation-building, community development, effective service delivery to the good people of Nigeria and Africa at large.

Highlighting the problems facing youths in Africa, Christoph said, “Today, Africa is faced with the dire consequence of years of neglect of youths. This has resulted in various social vices, such as conflict, kidnapping, bombings and robbery, which have assumed an alarming dimension.

“With regard to the above, Youth Africa have taken her time to scrutinise Dr Adebogun, who has committed his time to serving the common good in accordance to the Pan Africanist ideology.”

Previous recipients of awards from the Initiative for Positive Influence in Africa Youth included Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, President Umar Al-Bashir of Sudan, Dr. Yashua Hamza and Senator Ben Murray-Bruce.

The Vice-Chancellor of Caleb University, Prof Ayandiji Aina, represented by Prof Nosa Owens-Ibie, received the award, on behalf of the Visitor, in company with other principal officers of the university.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]