Unizik students protest colleague’s death, blame varsity for tragedy
Tony Okafor, Awka

Scores of students of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State, on Monday took to the streets to protest the death of a final year Microbiology student, Francis Madubuobi, who slumped and died on Saturday while playing basketball.

The protesting students claimed that the medical personnel at the university’s medical centre did not do enough to save Francis’ life when he was taken there.

READ ALSO: NNPC, FAAC, Adeosun, and the missing billions

But the Director of Information of the university, Dr. Emmanuel Ojukwu, said the deceased was brought in without a pulse.

Ojukwu said Francis was taken to Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu Teaching Hospital, Amaku, where he was confirmed dead.

An eyewitness, who spoke to our correspondent on the condition of anonymity, said he was among the students that rushed the deceased to the medical centre. He said that the medical personnel they met at the centre had asked them to pray for Francis, instead of treating him immediately on arrival.

But another student, who also witnessed the sad event, said, “I was inside the ambulance holding Francis’ foot. It was damn cold and his eyes were open. I was scared. I knew only a miracle could save him, since he had no pulse. On getting to Amaku, the doctors saw that it was already too late.

The protesters claimed that it was the second time that a student had died in similar circumstances at the university’s medical centre.

The students vowed to continue the protest until the management of the university addressed the situation and made a commitment to the issue.

But, in a press statement made available to journalists in Awka, the university authorities insisted that Francis had died before he was brought to the university’s clinic.

The statement read,” The Management of Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka has received with great shock the painful and sudden demise of one of our students, Francis Chinedu Mmadubuobi, a 400 level student of the Department of Applied Microbiology and Brewing.

READ ALSO: High-tension wire kills three-year-old, mother, siblings injured

“The deceased slumped while playing basketball with his friends on Saturday July 21, 2018.

“The deceased was quickly rushed to the University medical Centre but had no pulse upon examination. This means that he had died before being brought to the University Medical Centre.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]