My sister’s First Class inspired me – CU’s overall best graduand
Chux Ohai

The Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State, held its 13th convocation ceremony last Friday. Out of a total of 1,887 graduating students, 238 bagged First Class Bachelor degrees. 746 graduated in the Second Class Upper division and 452 made it in the Second Lower division, while 86 made Third Class.

Nineteen-year-old Miss Flourish Salami of the Department of Industrial Chemistry emerged the Overall Best Graduating Student with a Cumulative Gradient Point Average of 4.99 out of a possible 5.0 points.

A native of Ijebu-Ode in Ogun State, Salami, in a brief meeting with journalists at the end of the event, praised the management of Covenant University for creating what she described as the “best environment” for learning in the country.

Recounting her journey to academic excellence, the graduand said, “It started when I was in 100 Level. My older sister graduated from this university with a First Class degree. I saw her shake hands with the Vice-Chancellor during her graduation. Seeing her looking very happy and smiling all through, I made up my mind right there to also graduate with First class. From that moment, I started working hard at my studies.”

Explaining why she chose to study Industrial Chemistry at the university, Salami said that her passion for Chemistry as a subject took root right from Queen’s College, Onike, Lagos, her old secondary school. Interestingly, she also disclosed, Covenant University was not really her institution of first choice. Initially she had wanted to study at the University of Ibadan, but she could not because she was considered to be underage. She was 15 years-old at the time.

Later, encouraged and inspired by her sister’s achievement at CU, she had decided to seek admission to the university. “It turned out to be my best decision ever. Funny enough, my UTME score wasn’t that impressive. I scored 208 out of 400. I wasn’t really that serious as an admission seeker.

“But when I got admitted to the university, I became quite determined to do better than I had done. I told myself that I was getting older and I needed to move higher in life. I saw a bright future ahead and I started to work really hard at my studies,” she said.

Salami added that she had a tough time adapting to the environment at CU. At the institution, she found the rules a bit different and had to struggle to get used to them. “You were not allowed to leave the campus without permission and the level of spirituality was high. I don’t think such things exist in the public universities. Nevertheless, although there are many distractions in public universities, I still would have been able to get serious with my studies,” she noted.

The graduand admitted that despite the strict rules at CU, one of which forbade the use of cell phones on the campus, she found the university environment quite suitable. “I loved the rule that disallowed the use of phones in school. I liked it because phones are a big distraction on campus, especially to students in my age group,” she said.

To get this far, Salami, whose immediate ambition is to grab a Ph.D and teach in the university, admitted that she literally had to immerse herself in her studies. For her, there was no leisure, no social life and more important, no boyfriend on campus.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]