Unity schools’ admission based on cut-off not social status – FG
Tare Youdeowei

The Federal Ministry of Education has said that the posting of pupils across the 104 unity schools in the country is based on cut-off mark and not favouritism.

The ministry made this disclosure, through its Director, Press, Mr. Willy Bassey, in response to complaints by some agitated parents who claimed that their children were posted to schools outside their choices.

A parent resident in the Amukoko area of Lagos, Mrs Chinyere Obi, in an interview with our correspondent, had complained that her son was posted to a school in a location far away from his family.

She said, “I filled Federal Government College, Ijanikin and Federal Government College, Okigwe for my son, but he was posted to Federal Government College, Ikole in Ekiti State. Who do we know there? I chose Okigwe because if anything happens, my family and sibilings are living there and they can quickly reach him and put things in order. Who do I know in Ikole?”

Mr John Edet, who lives in Calabar, Cross River State, also lamented that his daughter was posted to Queen’s College, Lagos, although he wanted her to remain in the South-East.

“We chose Federal Government Girls College, Calabar and Federal Government Girls College, Ikot Obio-Ikong. Although Queen’s College is a very good and well-known school, a journey from Lagos to Calabar by road is nine hours. That means my wife and I will not see my daughter till the end of the school year. Even then, my wife will have to travel to pick her and bring her home.

“Imagine the cost of transportation. If I had that much money, I would have enrolled her in a private secondary school. It breaks my heart that I don’t have any connection. But that is the way of life. There is no money and no connection with people in high places,” he said.

Reacting to the complaints, Bassey said that posting of pupils was solely based on the ministry’s policy. He said, “Once the cut-off mark is determined by the ministry, it does not know the child of the rich or the poor. The selection is based on that criteria and it is followed. The issue of favouring the children of the elite over the children of the poor does not hold water, since there is a laid down procedure. Parents are assured that there is no favouritism in the posting of pupils.”

On why children were posted to schools outside of their preferred ones, Bassey said, “The Federal Government policy on posting of pupils to unity schools is aimed at enhancing national cohesion, so that you have people from different parts of the country mixing with one another. That is the idea. The essence is to unify Nigeria. It is just like the National Youth Service Scheme. The aim is to enable young Nigerians to learn about the culture and traditions in other parts of the country. Parents should bear with us.”

However, some parents prefer to sit on the other side of the fence. One of them is Mrs Aseri Abiodun, who lives in Benin City, capital of Edo State. Commenting on the subject, Abiodun noted that parents knew what they were getting into when they enrolled their children for the National Common Entrance Examination. She said, “As much as I want this country to be united, my children will not be the scapegoats. Although I admire unity schools a lot, I did not bother to enroll my eldest daughter in one because they could decide to post her to Sokoto State. I cannot have that.

“When my son comes of age, I will rather send him to a private boarding school where I can monitor him and sue the school if something goes wrong than enroll him in a unity school. I feel that parents who allowed their children to sit the common entrance examination should not complain because they know what they signed up for. They should either take it or leave it.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]