Ministry investigates websites posting WAEC, NECO answers
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Ministry of Education has begun an investigation into some dubious websites that post fake answers to the Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations organised by the West African Examinations Council and the National Examinations Council.

Our correspondent learnt from the spokesperson of the ministry, Willy Bassey, on Thursday that files had been opened on the matter as investigations continued.

This is just as a group, known as the Akin Fadeyi Foundation, called on the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, to explain what the Federal Government had done to check the activities of dubious websites that were giving Nigeria a bad name in the Diaspora.

The foundation, in a petition signed by its Executive Director, Akin Fadeyi, said the government must put in place measures to stop the web-promoted examination malpractice.

It said the rise in cases of malpractice was “worrisome and an antithesis to the anti-corruption drive of the current administration.”

The group said, “These websites are well-known among Nigerian candidates. Interested persons are asked to send airtime recharge to phone numbers on the websites, after which they receive a pin, which gives them access to answers to examination questions of the Senior Secondary School Examinations.

“This habit of using the Internet to promote examination malpractice has a wider range of impact. It breeds citizens who easily perpetuate corrupt practices, which by extension, stunts the growth of the nation. It may interest the minister to know that, currently, many Nigerians in the Diaspora are faced with challenges of fitting into global employment systems because of the lack of confidence in Nigerian certificates.

“Many who even excelled with academic laurels back in Nigeria or were already skillfully employed are known to have been subjected to several qualification examinations that cost a lot of money before they are considered for employment.

“In the light of this, we request to know what measures the Federal Ministry of Education has put in place to curb examination malpractice, the success achieved so far and how it plans to put a stop to web-promoted malpractice.”

When contacted to react on the issues, Bassey said, “Yesterday (Wednesday) I saw the file on the matter. I am still studying the contents of that matter. On that matter, maybe next week, we can discuss it.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]