Foundation moves to reduce illiteracy among children
Tare Youdeowei

THE Young Protege Leadership Foundation recently held a book reading event at the American Corner, Yaba, Lagos.

The event, which was in support of the Sustainable Development Goals 4 on quality education, sought the teaching of leadership skills to young people in the country.

With the theme, ‘Read to Lead’, the event had in attendance participants from the Emmanuel Excellent School, Mowe, and Utol School, Arepo, Ogun State, as well as Renaissance Academy, Mushin and Brich Freman Senior High School Ilupeju, Lagos.

Stating the need for young people to build the culture of reading to become leaders, the founder of YPLF, Mr. Michael Akinnike, said, “It is a tragedy that 65 million adults and 20 million children cannot read and write in Nigeria. The reading culture is becoming history among young people. Education is the bedrock of growth and development and these will always be directly proportional to the quality of education in any country.

“The most important investment in the future is education. Nigeria will prioritise education when we are serious about growth, development and the future. A reader is a pilgrim and the pages of the book are the route to wisdom, while wisdom is the father of wealth.”

A member of the foundation’s advisory, Mrs. Tolulope Adebayo, encouraged the participants to be the change that they seek, as well as stressed the need for everyone to be problem solvers wherever they find themselves.

The participants read the Protégé comic book, just as they reviewed the leadership lessons contained in it. They also played the Protégé LEAD game, which has been described as the first African leadership board game that teaches leadership values.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]