Group donates mobile digital classrooms to Akwa Ibom schools
Etim Ekpimah, Uyo

An Abuja-based hi-tech educational solutions provider, EDUSTABL, has donated N4.5m worth digital educational equipment to six schools in Akwa Ibom State.

The firm’s Managing Director, Mr. Patrick Inaku, who donated the equipment at Kings Kids Christian Schools, Uyo on Thursday, said the gesture was part of the organisation’s effort to enhance digital literacy and educational standards in public schools in the country, especially in rural communities.

According to him, the donation was also aimed at boosting Akwa Ibom State Government’s free, compulsory and qualitative education policy for her citizenry.

He added that the introduction of the Digital Classrooms System in public schools would revolutionise learning by bringing cost-effective Information Communication Technology to all classrooms regardless of whether or not they have internet connectivity or electricity.

Inaku noted that DCS was a small, powerful three-in-one equipment that comprised a computer, smart projector, and interactive board functionality, supported by a palm-sized 8-hour power bank and a solar charger, which enabled it to work for several hours without electricity.

“The newly evolved digital system involves teaching educators and students how technology can be used in the classrooms, to help students move to more experience and applications-based learning, as opposed to broad-based learning; thus, we see this as a success in terms of scale, he stated,” he said.

The benefiting schools include Northern Annang Secondary Commercial School, Etim Ekpo; Mary Hanney Secondary School, Oron; Independent High School, Essien Udim local government areas of Akwa Ibom State.

Others were Cornelia Connelly College, Uyo; Community Secondary School, Akpan Ishiet, Onna, and Itam Secondary School in Itu LGAs.

Inaku added that, with DCS, all schools would be able to deliver consistent, interactive and engaging digital content in their classrooms without any encumbrance.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]