Introduce risk management in varsities —VC
Chukwudi Akasike, Port Harcourt

The Vice-Chancellor of the Rivers State University of Science and Technology, Port Harcourt, Prof. Blessing Didia, has called for the introduction of Risk Management as a course in tertiary institutions.

Didia made this call in Port Harcourt during a capacity building seminar/membership induction and conferment of fellowship organised by the Chartered Institute of Loan and Risk Management of Nigeria.

The vice-chancellor observed that there was a lot of risk in Nigeria, adding that risk management as a course in the universities was necessary in order to tackle any danger standing as a stumbling block to development.

Didia, who was a special guest on the occasion, argued that since courses in Accounting and Finance already existed, having a Risk Management Department in the nation’s universities would not be a bad idea.

“I also think that because we have courses in Accounting and Finance, those that regulate these things should know how to manage the risk in them. This is a very good time for us to establish a Risk Management Department in the universities.”

He, however, expressed doubt on the ability of current managers to handle some of the risks in Nigeria.

“You have seen that the risk in prospecting of oil in Ogoniland has been there. We have been told that Ogoniland would be cleaned and we have seen how it is being cleaned. So, it is clear to me that taking care of the risk poses a serious challenge because of the managers,” he added.

Earlier, the President and Chairman, Governing Council of the institute, Dr. Oladipo Bailey, explained that the body was not only known for giving loans, but it was also involved in managing the risk of using loans.

Represented by the Vice-President of the institute, Dr. Nkechi Akubuiro, he said that the event was held in Port Harcourt so that the institute would be alive in the South-South and South-East.

“Our presence is very strong in the South-West, North and we are just trying to make sure that we bring back the same thing to the South-South, South-East and Port Harcourt is pivotal to achieving that success.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]