Rewarding pupils’ good performance
Favour Mike-Ewewie

There are several ways parents adopt in rewarding their kids anytime they impress them either, based on their school results or behaviour generally.

While some are of the view that in such moments, kids should be given anything they request, others feel a mere pat on the back or words of commendation are enough motivation. There were even some parents who would go the extra mile to give their kids huge money or buy them amazing gifts.

For the Proprietor, Choice Model Academy, Atan-Ota, Ogun State, Mrs. Christiana Adesanya, a child should be rewarded for his or her outstanding performance in school. She argued that when a child performed excellently in school and was not rewarded accordingly, such a child wouldn’t be happy and could start misbehaving.

Adesanya said, “That is why we must reward them so as to enable them to put in more efforts to get better grades. It can also result in some of them losing focus when no one shows appreciation to them. They will feel deserted and their focus will recede.

“When they have good grades, one can promise them things. For instance, promise to take them to an amusement park or buy bicycles for them and other things.”

Also, a father of five, Mr. Isaiah Olorunwa, said kids should be rewarded each time they performed well in school to encourage them to perform better.

Olorunwa added, “You can buy them clothes, shoes, sandals or toys that they can play with when they are free. When you don’t reward them based on their good performance, it will dampen their morale and it is not good.

“Once you have promised to reward them if they perform well even if you didn’t promise them anything, you should be able to fulfill it. Failing the promise will affect their confidence and end up giving the kids a negative impression of their parents as promise breakers.”

For a mother of three, Mrs. Esther Ogunbade, joy always fills her heart when her children perform well in school. Ogunbade stated, “I treat them well. There was an instance when my first daughter got good grades in her last result. My husband and I took all our children out and gave them a nice treat. We treated our first daughter more. We bought more things for her than the others because she had the best result among all of them. We did that to encourage her siblings to do well in their studies too.”

She said it was important to reward kids who did well in school no matter how little the gift, adding that the consequence of not doing so could make the concerned kids feel there was nothing important in academic excellence.

The Proprietor, CL Private School, Mowe, Ogun State, Mrs. Veronica Iluezi-Ogbaudu, said during her school end-of-year celebration, pupils were rewarded according to their performance, while those with extremely good grades were offered one-year scholarship.

Iluezi-Ogbaudu stated, “They will feel like even if they do well in school, their parents will not give them anything. Parents should try to motivate their kids who do well in school. Depending on what the family has agreed on, they can take them out for lunch, a park or go shopping with them.”

Another mother, Mrs. Temitope Adesoji, said her way of challenging her kids to do well in school was to make a promise to them beforehand.

She said, “Ordinarily, before their examination, I will make promises that if they pass well, I will get them one thing or the other. For instance, one of my sons has been asking me for a bicycle. I told him that if he comes first in his class, I will buy it for him. We only remind each other about it every day. The onus is thus on him to fulfil his own part of the deal. I think the reward starts from the beginning.

“You don’t always have to promise big things. Even if it is small, promise and give it to them. This is because promising them and not fulfilling it will affect their zeal. Anytime I promise my kids anything, I always make sure I fulfil it and I don’t promise what I cannot afford. “Even without school results, I think parents should still buy things for their children to make them happy.”

A father, Mr. Dotun Jegede, told SUNDAY PUNCH that he always bought his children unique gifts like shoes and also taking them out to catch fun. He said he promised to take them to Dubai if they did well next session, adding that once kids met certain expectations from their parents, they should be rewarded.

Jegede added, “In terms of giving, it is the responsibility of the parents to provide for their children regardless of their request or not. The reward is just an incentive. In other words, the focus of the incentive is to drive them to enhance their potential of being able to go higher or do better than what they did last sessions.”

On his part, the Head Teacher of Rola International School, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos, Mr Tola Kareem, said failure to reward a child who did well in school could affect his or her mental state. Kareem argued that one of the implications of not rewarding kids was that a child who did well in school could become withdrawn.

He noted, “He will feel that he has done well and nobody has appreciated him. Another thing is that the child will see him or herself as someone hated by people or that he is not a human being. This can demoralise him.

“The danger is that of suicidal tendency. Also, it does not speak well of a solid school not to have a good reward system because reinforcement is important in education.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]