‘FG, states can no longer provide quality education’
Chux Ohai

The Principal of Pacific Comprehensive College, Shasha, Lagos, Mr. Andrew Mekwunye, has warned that government at all levels in Nigeria is no longer in a position to provide quality education for the nation’s children.

Speaking during the valedictory service for the 2017/2018 set of graduating pupils of the school, held at the college premises last Saturday, Mekwunye noted that the Federal Government and the states were under pressure to meet the many demands of the people, including the provision of quality basic education, but they lacked the resources to do so.

He said, “There is no short cut to quality education. But the truth is that, in Nigeria, government is longer in a position to provide quality education because of the increasing population and other competing needs. Education is not the only basic need of the people; pipe borne water, electricity, roads, housing and health facilities also need government attention.

“Increasing participation of private individuals and companies must be encouraged, if there must be a way out. Quality and functional education is indispensible to true literacy.”

Mekwunye also said that more parents had become aware of the fact that private educators were crucial to the attainment of quality and functional education, but their aspirations were being cut short by the rising costs of running private schools.

He noted that the national curriculum for primary and secondary schools had failed to explain why children should go to school, adding that the use of a non- functional curriculum was partly responsible for the rise in social, educational and economic crises afflicting the country.

The principal urged the 36 graduating pupils of the college to be the best in their chosen professions by updating their knowledge through collaborations, networking, seminars, workshops, field trips and others.

In his address, the Chairman, Board of Trustee of Pacific Group of Schools, Mr. Remi Omosowon, said the school would continue to implement programmes that deliver internationally integrated curricula to make the pupils globally competitive.

He said, “These enrichment programmes align very well with the 21st century skills that students need to be college or work ready in the ever changing dynamic world of the information age and the knowledge economy that we live in.’’ Omosowon also said that the school had equipped the graduands to succeed in whatever they chose to do and to become change agents capable of impact the rest of the world positively.

The Guest Speaker and Managing Director, Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, Consult, Mr. Sunday Ayodele, said that the goal of education, which he described as the advancement of knowledge and dissemination of truth, could only be effectively promoted through quality education.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]