NTI trains 218 teachers on classroom management
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The National Teachers’ Institute, Kaduna State, has trained 218 teachers drawn from the 36 states on classroom management, digital literacy skills and modern teaching techniques.

The NTI held the training for the teachers in the six geo-political zones, with centres in Abuja, Ondo State, Bauchi State, Edo State, Enugu State and Kano State.

The NTI Director-General, Prof. Garba Azare, said the training was designed to strengthen the competence of teachers on academic leadership at the classroom level.

Azare said there was a need to equip teachers with the requisite knowledge to deliver in their respective roles, noting that the Federal Government, through the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, were involved in the training.

The DG said, “The overall objective of this training programme is to equip the head teachers and school administrators with effective classroom process techniques, including classroom observation and feedback, benchmarking and note keeping. It is also to let the teachers develop management skills on how to achieve improved pupils’ performance.

“The training will let them get acquainted with the roles and responsibilities of school managers and administrators with emphasis on team building, effective communication, mentoring, coaching and counselling.”

According to the NTI, six teachers were selected for the training from each of the 36 states while two were selected in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.

The workshop was held in conjunction with a learning consulting company, Axiom Learning Solutions Limited, the Nigerian Union of Teachers and the State Universal Basic Education Board.

Our correspondent learnt that the teachers were taught “key academic leadership skills, use of practical assessments, case studies, peer-to-peer review, role observation, coaching, syndicate groups for practical and learning simulation and participatory activity.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]