Tech-U VC wins Pan-African leadership award
Chux Ohai

The Vice-Chancellor of the Technical University, Ibadan, Prof. Ayobami Salami, has been awarded the Pan African Excellence in Leadership Prize in recognition of his immense contribution to social and human capital development in Africa.

The prize was awarded last Tuesday by the Initiative for Positive Influence on African Youths, a continental youth organisation based in Uganda.

This was disclosed in a statement issued by the spokesman of Tech-U, Mr. Femi Babatunde on Monday.

Speaking during the conferment ceremony, the Vice-Chairman of IPIAY, Ambassador Kwasi Akin, said the recipient emerged through a rigorous procedure that involved series of multilayered screening among the diverse members of the organisation.

He said, “We want to say that without fear or favour or contradiction, Prof. Salami has been found worthy to receive the Pan African Prize for Excellence in Leadership, in acknowledgement of his immense contributions to nation-building, community development, effective service delivery to the continent, remarkable patriotism, selfless and dedicated service to God, humanity, country and Africa”.

In his response, Salami commended the organisers for their integrity and thoughtfulness, noting that such demonstrated that all hope was not lost for the African continent.

He said, “Yours is a shining example that with genuine initiatives, African youths can be galvanised, mentored and redirected towards positive societal engineering”.

That was the second time, the statement noted, Salami received an award in one week, having been honoured alongside the Chancellor of Tech-U, Chief Tunde Afolabi, as distinguished citizens and role models by the Oyo State Model Education System Intervention for their contributions to the development of the Education in the State.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]