‘FG must tackle gaps in infrastructure’
Yinka Badejo

The Dean of the Faculty of Environmental Sciences at the University of Lagos, Prof Mike Adebamowo, has called on the Federal government to create an enabling environment for private investors to fill existing gaps in infrastructure.

He said this during a briefing held at the Akoka Campus of the university on Tuesday.

Adebamowo noted that, in creating an enabling environment for private investors, it was important for government to avoid inconsistency in policies, lack of respect for the rule of law, but adhere to agreements and obey court orders.

“Most importantly, there should be enforcement of penalties for unprofessional conducts,” he added.

On the issue of maintenance, the dean said the country needed to develop a better maintenance culture to foster an economically sustainable infrastructure.

He said, “Maintenance is key to sustainable infrastructure. Thus, there is a need for infrastructure maintenance policy that will enhance Public-Private-Partnership in the sustainability of the available infrastructures.”

The Don advised the government to make efforts to maximise the little resources available and avoid wastages and leakages, while making efforts to develop human capacity.

Highlighting the key challenges facing the delivery of smart infrastructure in the country, he said, “Poor planning, inadequate finance, political instability and lack of continuity in project funding, alongside present wasteful construction techniques and approaches, largely dominated by rudimentary construction tools, will neither deliver the much-needed and required housing units nor support smart infrastructure development in Nigeria.”

However, Adebamowo added that there were policies and agreements needed to strengthen the private investors towards smart infrastructure for sustainable competitiveness and holistic infrastructure development in Nigeria.

The tentative date of the next construction summit is May 9, 2018.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]