White Paper sets out Brexit position for HE, research
The United Kingdom government has announced its intention to facilitate mobility of students and research talent and “explore” continued participation in European Union science programmes post-Brexit in its White Paper setting out its position on the UK’s future relationship with the EU.

In the White Paper, Prime Minister Theresa May says the government sets out to “honour the result of the referendum” and deliver a “principled and practical Brexit that is in our national interest, and the UK’s and the EU’s mutual interest”.

There are numerous references to mobility of students and researchers and participation in EU research programmes.

The White Paper says the UK’s future economic partnership should provide reciprocal arrangements, consistent with the ending of free movement, that “facilitate mobility for students and young people, enabling them to continue to benefit from world leading universities and the cultural experiences the UK and the EU have to offer”.

These include “cultural exchanges such as Erasmus+”.

On EU research funding programmes, the UK government wishes to explore association in research and innovation programmes, including Horizon Europe, the Euratom Research and Training Programme, the Joint European Torus (JET) project and ITER.

Student mobility

The UK proposes a UK-EU youth mobility scheme, modelled on those it already has with other global partners, such as Australia and Canada.

The White Paper proposes a new UK-EU culture and education accord that provides for UK participation in EU programmes, and allows UK institutions to be partners, associates or advisers to EU projects and vice versa.

“The UK’s and the EU’s current education cooperation is centred around Erasmus+. The end of the implementation period coincides with the natural end of the scheme. The UK is open to exploring participation in the successor scheme,” the paper says.

Science and research cooperation

The White Paper also heavily references science and research cooperation.

It says the government believes the future relationship should include, within and beyond Europe’s borders, establishing cooperative accords for science and innovation, culture and education, development and international action, defence research and development, and space, “so that the UK and the EU can continue to work together in these areas, including through EU programmes, with the UK making an appropriate financial contribution”.

It proposes a defence research and capability accord that provides for UK participation in research elements of EU defence programmes as well as capability development aspects, important areas given that the UK’s defence research and development spending represents around 40% of the EU’s total.

The relationship should also provide for UK association with the Euratom Research and Training Programme, as part of an ambitious science and innovation accord, it says.

–universityworldpress.com