Philanthropist unveils foundation for girl-child education
Ife Ogunfuwa

A philanthropist and Chief Executive Officer, HBCL Investment Services Plc, Mrs. Mary Akpobome, has unveiled the Purple Girl Foundation for girl-child education.

Describing the Purple Girl Foundation as a platform that advocates access to education and leadership development for the girl-child in Nigeria, Akpobome said its vision was to support young girls across primary, secondary, and tertiary institutions of learning from indigent families with tuition, education support, healthcare insurance, leadership and peer learning opportunities.

“An empowered girl will multiply the society. The foundation will provide everything for the child up to university level,” she said.

The NGO, jointly founded by Mary and Alibaba Akpobome, would be managed by a board of trustees chaired by The Chairman, Ship Owners Forum, Mrs. Margaret Onyema-Orakwusi.

In her keynote address, the Founder and President, Wellbeing Foundation Africa, Mrs. Toyin Saraki, who was represented by the Chief Executive Officer, Wellbeing Foundation Africa, Amy Oyekunle, said Nigeria had a lot to gain from investing in the education of the girl-child.

She said, “Education for boys and girls is the key to releasing their potential for Nigeria and the world. The return in investment in our girls is high. The return in one year for one girl in secondary school is 25 per cent increase in living wages. “

In her goodwill message, the Deputy-Governor of Lagos State, Mrs. Idiat Adebule, represented by Yetunde Odejayi, noted that the girl-child had become more vulnerable to danger in the society and needed adequate support to safeguard her future.

“It is unacceptable that more girls will dropout of school due to these circumstances. This is a cause we must all support with our voices and resources,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]