Nigerian pupils receive outstanding Cambridge learner awards
Yinka Badejo

The British Council and Cambridge International have given awards to 86 pupils who achieved excellence in Cambridge examinations.

The awards, known as the British Council Recognition and Outstanding Cambridge Learner Awards, were presented to the pupils at a ceremony held recently in Lagos. Both awards recognised exceptional learner achievement in the November 2016 and June 2017 Cambridge examination series.

Speaking during the event, the Regional Director, Cambridge International, Sub-Saharan Africa, Juan Visser, said the awards would position the winners in the best place possible for their future education.

He said, “We are delighted that learners at our accredited schools continue to excel year in and year out. For over 800 years, the University of Cambridge has been one of the world’s greatest centres of learning. It created our organisation, Cambridge International, 160 years ago.

“Now, as part of the university, we take that Cambridge standard of excellence to schools across the world. I would be amiss if I did not also recognise the dedicated teachers without whom these achievements would not have been possible.”

The awards covered various subjects taken in the Cambridge IGCSEs, Cambridge O Levels and Cambridge International AS and A Levels in three categories, namely, Top in the world, Top in Country and High Achievement.

A total of 86 pupils in Nigeria received 115 awards from Cambridge International. The British Council also awarded partner schools from the Partner Schools Global Network that exemplify best practice policies for equality, diversity and inclusion, as well as child protection.

Also, the Country Director, British Council, Lucy Pearson, represented by Country Exams Manager, Marniee Nottingham, said the British Council was committed to providing opportunities for young people to enhance their potential and possibilities for the future.

She said, “Our partnership with Cambridge International to organise this award event is part of our commitment to encouraging young learners to strive for excellence in their academic pursuit.

“We continue to provide platforms that ensure global standards are adopted in schools so that pupils can enrich their learning. Through our PSGN, which is the community of schools that offer a UK curriculum leading to exams, we also offer high-quality products and services that support our leaders, teachers, learners and parents. For us, the overall goal, in partnership with school leaders and teachers, is to prepare young people to access opportunities available.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]