Engaging kids profitably during holidays
Favour Mike-Ewewie

Kids will soon take a break from school after weeks of meaningful learning designed to mould them to be useful to themselves, families and society in general.

School holiday is a period when pupils are expected to take a break from brain-tasking activities and related stressful exercises. Involving kids usefully during holiday is one of the most beneficial things parents can do to make their kids’ vacation enjoyable.

While some parents engage their kids in activities such as arts, crafts, music lessons and sports during the holiday, others prefer to enroll them in holiday/summer coaching. The latter category usually hinges their decision on the premise that kids are bound to forget what they learnt in school if not properly fused into more learning activities while on holiday.

The Proprietor, Stokhan Schools, Ijanikin, Lagos, Mr. Akintolure Oluwashinaayomi, said holiday period should be the ideal time for pupils to stay off school activities.

“When children are on holiday, they are meant to stay off school activities and it is a time for them to most likely change location. They should go on adventures and rest. That is what school holidays should be meant for. But in this part of the world, when pupils are on long vacation, we still tell them to come for summer coaching which shouldn’t be,” he stated.

He added that pupils’ summer holiday was for them to rest and to stay off work-related activities and for them to travel; meet relations and explore different places for a change of environment and catch fun.

“Luckily for me, I have boys and boys, in their normal nature, are restless. So, I want them, during the holiday, to catch all the fun if possible. “I will take them to my state to see the colour of nature since it has quite a lot of attractive tourist centres. There are times I make them travel. It is just for them to have a change of environment,” the school proprietor said.

Oluwashinaayomi noted that he always respected his children’s view, saying he usually asked them how they “wish to spend their holiday and combine what they say to what I think will be good for them and we strike a balance.”

Speaking on the issue, a psychology professor at the University of Lagos, Oni Fagboungbe, said once parents could afford it, they should change environment and introduce their kids to foreign activities that would offer relaxation like games and meaningful movies. “There should be occasional lessons where they go over their school work and activities so that they won’t completely forget what they learnt when they return to school,” he said.

Also, a mother of two, Mrs. Seun Omotoso, said kids should not be left alone during holiday, stating that parents should always find ways to engage them meaningfully.

Omotoso added, “During holidays, children should not be left alone. One can always get story books for them to read. They have time to relax and rest. They have time to help their parents and themselves.

“They can also be taught how to do some other things that they don’t know. They can also go visiting other places with their parents.”

Saying her children were still young, she explained that she always spent time with her kids whenever they were on holiday.

“I make sure I spend time with them. Also, when I am leaving for work in the morning, I give them things to do with the supervision of my mother (their grandmother). I create a form of roaster in which there is time to play, exercise their brain, watch television and all that,” she said.

On his part, the Principal of Lagos-based Karo Favoured School, Mr. Mark Okoh, stressed the importance of giving kids a befitting holiday experience.

“Speaking from the educational perspective, it is an opportunity for both the pupils and teachers to rest and take a break from the academic activities and to prepare the minds for the incoming session. That is what the children are expected to do – to relax, have a (work-free) holiday and have fun. The pupils should have an opportunity to enjoy those things they can’t do while in school,” Okoh stated.

The principal explained that as a parent and teacher, he made sure that his kids were always out of the house visiting during holiday so that they wouldn’t engage in unproductive activities.

He stated, “I make sure that they don’t stay within the confines of our environment. They use the opportunity of the holidays to go on break outside the state and to other places. If they cannot travel at a particular point in time, I enroll them in holiday coaching and vocational activities outside the classrooms where they can learn arts and crafts and other things they can do with their hands or sporting activities that can make them healthy and happy.”

For Mrs. Christiana Olagidi, holiday period is a time to bond with her daughter. “What I do during the holiday is to spend more time with my daughter. I teach her how to do house chores and other things. After that, I let her play with her toys, watch television and all that,” she said.

Fagboungbe noted that enrolling kids in summer school during holiday would lead to ‘overloading’, stating that human beings were not mathematical in nature.

He added, “But it is very common for parents to push their children too hard which shouldn’t be. They had just finished a term in school and you are already enrolling them in lessons. That will make them saturated and it will cause overloading and their rate of assimilation will be affected.

“When you make them deviate from the usual school things, they become more prepared. Their system will be in a more relaxed form to assimilate better when they return to school.”

Saying parents thought summer coaching would keep their kids busy, the psychologist explained that since most parents had no time, they always found succour in holiday coaching to shirk their social and parental responsibilities.

The psychologist stated, “When children are on holidays, their mentality towards it is a period when they will enjoy and move away from their regular school lessons. When you start bothering them with school lessons, home works, assignments, this and that, you are not assisting them.

“The entrepreneurs of those days had no time for leave; no break and they worked from January to December. They resumed in the morning and worked till they closed. A research was done to know why the entrepreneurs were doing that. They felt the longer you stayed on a job, the more output you produce and the more profit you make. But it was discovered that human brains don’t operate that way.”

Noting that as a psychologist, he wouldn’t encourage continuous work without rest, he said humans were physiologically built and imbued with nerves and other organs.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]