‘Aregbesola’s intervention will increase enrolment figures’
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Minister for Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, has hailed the schools feeding programme and infrastructural development initiative of Governor Rauf Aregbesola in the education sector in Osun State.

The minister, in a statement made available to our correspondent in Osogbo on Thursday, said that both initiatives had the capacity to increase the enrolment figures in primary and secondary schools in the state.

According to the statement, Adamu spoke during the official inauguration of Ayedaade Government High school in Ikire, Osun State.

The minister also noted that the education policies of the Osun State Government were in tandem with that of the Federal Government, which were aimed at improving school enrolment.

Adamu said Aregbesola had done so well in education that the state had moved ahead of its neighbours in the development of the sector.

He explained that the governor had steered Osun on the path to achieving meaningful growth and development through various policies aimed at improving the education sector.

He said, “I am old enough to have experienced what the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo did and achieved in the education sector during his time. Awolowo ensured that every child, no matter the background, got the best of education. Aregbesola is rekindling that today through what he is doing in the education sector.

“The school feeding programme which Aregbesola started fully and the modern school structures being built are enough to increase enrolment in school and that is what the federal ministry of education is clamouring for.

“What Aregbesola has done in the state and in the education sector can only be achieved by a determined governor and one that truly has the passion to do well for the masses.

“The Federal Ministry of Education is always proud of what the governor has achieved in the education sector in Osun. What Aregbesola has done to education in Osun is wonderful and the state is firmly on the right path to development.

“The future of the state is definitely secured because the present administration is investing in the future of the state through education. What I have seen on ground in Osun is not found in any state of the federation, it is really unprecedented.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]