Education is doorway to harnessing youths’ potential —Buhari
Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja

President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday described education as the veritable way of harnessing the huge potentials of youths.

According to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, the President spoke while receiving the outgoing Ambassador of Belarus, Vyacheslav Beskosty, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.

Beskosty has spent over six years in Nigeria as the pioneer Ambassador of his country.

“Education is the veritable doorway through which the boundless potentials of youths can be positively harnessed for the benefit of society, and the country at large, said President Muhammadu Buhari,” the statement read in part.

Buhari was also quoted to have commended the education ties he said existed between the two countries.

“I am impressed by your successful tour of duty, particularly in the area of educational ties between our countries.

“Over 600 young Nigerians are in your country, trying to guarantee a better future for themselves through education,” Buhari said.

He added that the relationship between Nigeria and Belarus was sure to grow stronger in the years ahead.

Beskosty said Nigeria had “big potential for economic cooperation” with his country, adding that military and technical ties were equally proceeding satisfactorily.

Noting that agricultural development was on the priority list of the Buhari administration, he added that Belarus, as the world’s biggest producer of fertilizers, and a giant in the production of tractors “has a great role to play in the bid to achieve food self-sufficiency” in Nigeria.

The outgoing ambassador commended the Buhari administration for its service to the nation, noting that people were already seeing significant changes in the country.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]