Albesta Academy wins 2018 Tolaram Science Challenge
Tare Youdeowei

albesta Academy, Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos, has emerged winner of the 2018 Tolaram Science Challenge, a CSR initiative of Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise focused on developing and promoting science education amongst pupils. The competition, in its third edition, saw 14 secondary schools compete by answering questions in Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics and General Knowledge.

Presenting the winner with the first prize trophy and a cash prize, the Chairman of LPLE, Mr. Emmanuel Adesoye, commended the hard work and intelligence of the students of the school stating that their brilliant performance had seen them clinch the first prize again.

He said, “Winning this year’s edition of the science challenge makes Albesta Academy a third time winner of the competition which goes to show how hard-work always makes you stand out. Do not relent as you climb higher on the educational ladder.”

While receiving the trophy, the Principal of Albesta Academy, Mr. Thompson Imhanbor, appreciated LPLE for its immense contribution to educational development in the area. “We really appreciate the effort of Lekki Port, especially in the area of educational advancement. Thanks to them, the students of this area are better at their science subjects and always look forward to this competition.”

On his part, the Chief Finance Officer, LPLE, Mr. Sandeep Parasramka, assured the community that LPLE would continue to deliver impactful contributions. “While we are at our primary assignment of delivering a world-class port that will make Nigeria the trans-shipment hub for West Africa, we will continue to engage all our stakeholders, especially the communities around us to further develop them for all round advancement.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]