LABICO graduates 99 Bible scholars
Tare Youdeowei

The Lagos Anglican Dioceses Bible College has produced 96 diploma and three certificate graduates.

The graduation ceremony, which was first held 21 years ago on May 6, 1997, saw family and friends of the graduates get to Our Saviour’s Anglican Church, TBS, Lagos, as early as 9am on Thursday, to bear witness to the anointing and certification of the new Bible literates.

Urging the graduates to go forth and pray for everyone, including their enemies, the Chairman, Governing Council, LABICO, Mrs Modupe Fasina, said, “It is a special day in which we are all witnesses of this new army of Christ. Henceforth, till you enter mother earth, teach all nations to be close to all things the Lord has commanded. Do not be wary to preach to friends, foes, the enlightened, illiterates or those on the street. Let your voice be heard, preach for Christ. Do not fail Christ.”

While giving his graduation address, the Rector of the college, Ven. Femi Fatile, called on the graduates to join service groups so as to live out what was learnt. “I commend your sacrifices and commitment to the Bible. As you receive your certificates, because we find you worthy, the vision God gave the founding fathers of the college to raise Bible literates is now materilised. This knowledge does not automatically make a leader, this has equipped you to serve and worship better. There are many service groups, join them and practise what you learnt.”

Before anointing the graduates, a Visitor of the College, the Bishop of Awori, Rt. Rev. J. Akin Atere, urged them to be upright.

He said, “On behalf of the Visitors, I congratulate you. All that you have learnt will not stand against you on the day of judgement. We have trained you but changing your ways for good is between you and God. As humans you have the tendency to be bad but choose to do right by the Lord. You have been taught by seasoned lecturers but your character must change for the better.”

Upon witness the handing over certificates, the Chancellor of the College, Mr Odein Ajumogobia, said, “I consider it a privilege to witness this important and inspiring occasion. You have enhanced your knowledge to teach the word of God. This is something I wanted to do but haven’t been able to make the sacrifice. I hope that next year I will enrol.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]