NAUS urges FG to build technology hubs for graduates
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The National Association of University Students has urged the Federal Government to support entrepreneurship by building technology hubs for graduates and students across the country, where new skills and innovations could be learnt.

The NAUS Chair of Presidents, Solomon Adodo, stated this in Abuja at a press briefing on Friday, noting that the establishment of such technology hubs was an effective way to reduce poverty and unemployment in the country.

Adodo said there must be public-private partnership to drive development in the country, adding that the briefing was also to recognise one of the “country’s most innovative private investors and Managing Director of Jamub Group of Companies, Jacob Momoh.”

The students’ body called on the Federal Government to ensure the revamping of the university system to encourage technology and innovations.

Adodo said, “We want the government to create innovation hubs for our teeming graduates. The hubs must be equipped and must be situated in all the geo-political zones in this country. Such hubs will serve not only the graduates, but also university students. This is where we can fertilise ideas, sharpen skills and drive innovations.

“There cannot be educational advancement until we get to this level. The public and the private sectors must join hands in revitalising and uplifting the standard of education in our country.

“Nigerian students are proud of the entrepreneurial innovations of some private individuals in the country and one of them is Prince Momoh. We want other private investors in the country to toe this line and help to reduce not only illiteracy but also poverty.

“These are the panaceas to the many crises the country is facing at the moment.”

Momoh, in his reactions, noted that a crime-free country could only be achieved through quality education and innovations, urging the students to work towards achieving innovative and entrepreneurship skills.

He added that a scholarship lottery, which would be inaugurated before July, was conceived to raise funds to lessen the burden of pupils who were lacking quality basic education.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]