Keystone graduates 14, advises pupils on excellence
Yinka Badejo

The Proprietor, Keystone College, Dr Toyin Phillips, has advised the 2018 graduating set of the school to keep aspiring to attain greater heights.

She said this during the valedictory and prize-giving ceremony held at St. David’s Anglican Church, Lagos.

Phillips encouraged them to remain focused and specialise only in areas useful to their future profession and aspirations.

She said, “Have your goals and objectives always on your mind as there is time for everything. Follow your dreams of making it in life. Your gifts, areas of interest and specialisation are useful guides to your future aspirations.”

Urging the graduates to be good ambassadors of the school, the Principal, Keystone College, Mrs Olubunmi Olumuyiwa, said they must make use of the lessons learnt to conquer a world of uncertainty that awaits.

“We have in the course of the last few years taught, moulded, spoken to, preached, castigated and then made up with you. You are going into a completely new world — a world of uncertainties. However, as you go on in life, never forget to make the best use of the lessons you have learnt here.

“Your years ahead must continue to be defined by empathy, compassion, objectivity and a willingness to take reasonable risks. Always lead by example and work hard or play straight,” she added.

Olmuyiwa also noted that the school had made remarkable progress in the quality of facilities and was working hard to improve its internet facility and library.

The Valedictorian, Mr Adeniyi Oladipupo, in his speech revealed that he was not always the brightest as he had earlier in life battled low memory span, which initially hindered his progress.

He said, I was told I had a low concentration memory span. I could not concentrate for a long period. This was my best excuse for failure. In my former school, I got conditional promotion and after much counselling, I was advised to repeat. It was then it dawned on me that I had wasted everyone’s time and effort.”

Oladipupo, who eventually overcame his condition, praised his teachers and the school for taking him from where he was to being the best in his set.

“Keystone has taught me that everybody is a teacher and formal education is not the only way to learn because every member of staff has a lesson to teach you and advice to give that will have a positive impact for life,” he added.

There was special presentations of South African and Ballet dances respectively by the Keystone junior students.

The event, which started from the church, ended at the college premises with the exchange of badges and award of prizes to excellent students.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]