Microsoft, Sidmach move to digitally empower schools
Tare Youdeowei

The duo of Microsoft Nigeria and Sidmach Technologies have brought to the notice of school owners, teachers, lecturers and administrators innovations that, according to them, would digitally transformation education in Nigeria.

At an event held at Radisson Blu, Ikeja, Lagos, the tech companies sought to empower schools with Microsoft’s Imagine Academy, as well as Sidmach’s Smart School and a Simple Electronic Assessment and Marking System, SEAMs, aimed at aiding effective management.

Speaking on how Imagine Academy helps schools compete globally with international standards, Educations Program Manager, Microsoft Nigeria, Ms. Jordan Belmonte, said, “Imagine Academy is an IT package with over 700 courses including data and computer science, as well as IT infrastructure to enhance productivity in schools. The package will aid learning and prepare schools for a digital literacy curriculum. We are here because it is not only good that we have technology out there, but it is also important that we put the individuals through on how to use it. Imagine Academy is simply about helping schools and individuals compete globally with international standard.”

Explaining how SEAMS works, Head Creative Marketing and Brand Communications of Sidmach, Mr. Akintunde Opawole, said, “SEAMS is a transformation in assessment, testing and Computer Based Test that helps digitalise examinations taken manually, as well as helps curb the lack of alternatives in digital examinations.

“SEAMS doesn’t aim to replace teachers but enhance their performances as they can do more from the comfort of their homes and offices as some of its features include answer script capture, submission portal and real-time examination submission,” Opawole said.

This was just as Educations Strategic Business Unit Manager, Sidmach, Mr. Ohwofasa Imoh, said, “Smart School is an online portal which aids competitive thinking, cloud computing and organisation of information.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]