British Council, CFA institute bring exams to Nigeria
Yinka Badejo

The Chartered Financial Institute, in collaboration with the British Council in Nigeria, has begun the delivery of the CFA exams in Nigeria.

The exam, usually held outside the country, berthed in Nigeria recently at the Landmark Event Centre in Lagos, with over 800 candidates.

According to the President of the CFA Institute, Mr Paul Smith, the development is long overdue because of logistical reasons.

“It’s logistical, really. It was a question of trying to make sure we found a secure venue, the right venue and the right support from the British Council to organise things. It took a little bit of planning to make sure the exam materials were got securely through customs and it just took us a couple of years to organise and get it right,” he said.

The CFA Institute is one of the leading professional bodies for the global investment management industry and it awards the CFA credential, which is held by over 150,000 professionals around the world.

In Nigeria, over 2,000 chartered financial analysts got their certifications from neighbouring countries.

The Country Director, British Council Nigeria, Lucy Pearson, said, “Through our exams business, we provide educational, professional and life-changing opportunities through globally recognised qualifications. These will enable people to work, study, build career prospects and promote personal development.

“We make a positive impact on people’s lives and communities, delivering over 103,000 exams in the last year. Our partnership with a global exams partner like the CFA enables us to achieve these huge ambitions. The British Council currently administers CFA exams in about 40 countries globally and in Sub-Saharan Africa there are Centre’s in Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Namibia, Zimbabwe and of course now in Nigeria.”

Also speaking with our correspondent on the benefits of taking the exam in the country, Country Examinations Manager, British Council, Marniee Nottingham, said Nigerians would save a lot of money and time now that the exams had been moved to Nigeria.

“Candidates are now saving money and time because before the exams got to Nigeria, candidates had to travel to Ghana, UK, Dubai and many other places abroad. It’s great that they can stay locally now and prepare themselves for the exam here in Lagos,” she said.

The President of CFA Society Nigeria, Banji Fehintola, noted that the organisation was working together with the government to bring change to the society.

He said, “We are constantly talking to the government, we can’t change the society without the help of the government. We have friends in the government who understand the value of what we do.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]