Reconfiguring the European higher education sector
In a 2016 referendum, 51.9 per cent of those who voted were in favour of the United Kingdom leaving the European Union. The ‘Brexit’ process – the practicalities of which are still largely unknown – was officially triggered in May 2017. Brexit may have serious implications for higher education in the United Kingdom and beyond.

At present, the United Kingdom is the second-largest recipient of competitive research funding from the European Union after Germany. UK researchers are more likely to be chosen as leaders in collaborative funding bids and the United Kingdom is a favourite destination of individual recipients of research fellowships.

Six per cent of students and a staggering 17 per cent of staff at UK universities are from other EU countries. While the prestige of UK higher education institutions plays a part in this success, the United Kingdom benefits from its position as a ‘gateway’ to Europe, attracting students and researchers for this reason also.

In addition, nearly half of the academic papers produced by the United Kingdom are written in collaboration with at least one international partner, and among the top 20 countries UK academics cooperate the most with, 13 are in the European Union. A significant proportion of these jointly authored papers arise from research collaborations funded by the European Union.

Finally, several key pan-European research facilities such as the High Power Laser Energy Research Facility are based in the United Kingdom. Free movement, which is guaranteed under the rules of EU membership at present, is essential for these research facilities to be used to their full potential.

A ‘hard Brexit’ could be devastating for the UK higher education sector. Yet, it is clear that the UK higher education system will not be the only one affected in the event of a ‘hard Brexit’ where, in the worst-case scenario, EU students would be charged full international fees to study in the United Kingdom, freedom of movement for researchers would be restricted and the United Kingdom would no longer be able to participate in collaborative bids for funding.

Brexit and Europe research project

In this context, the Centre for Global Higher Education, based at the UCL Institute of Education in the UK, set out to investigate the potential impact of Brexit on higher education and research across Europe.

“We were able to gather researchers from 10 research centres on higher education in Denmark, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal and Switzerland as well as the United Kingdom.

“Over the following few months, 127 interviews were conducted across these countries with key individuals at the national level as well as with university leaders, academics and internationally mobile early-career researchers. Research participants were encouraged to reflect on the impact of Brexit on their institutions and their respective national systems,” the research disclosed.

Between risk and opportunity: an uneven impact

The research revealed contrasting attitudes from one country to another. “Strikingly, participants in Eastern European countries such as Hungary and Poland (as well as some interviewees in Portugal) expressed the view that they were not valued collaborators of the United Kingdom in the first place and that the impact of Brexit would therefore be relatively limited.

“The bigger countries in our study, such as Germany, may in fact benefit from a possible reallocation of funds. Northern European countries such as Denmark and the Netherlands were more ambivalent. On the one hand, given their performance in terms of grant capture and research productivity, and also given the fact they tend to offer courses in English, they are well positioned to benefit from a withdrawal of the United Kingdom.

“Yet, part of their success is due to their Anglo-Saxon orientation. In this sense, it was felt that the departure of the United Kingdom would compound the negative impact of political changes in the United States on future collaborations with valued partners.

“Dutch and Danish participants also made it clear that they relied on the United Kingdom as a political ally in discussions at the EU level – where there are tensions between countries favouring competitive research funding and countries preferring a less competitive and more egalitarian system,” the researchers said.

—www.universityworldpress.com