Be persistent, Mujota, Aderinokun urge pupils
Samuel Awoyinfa, Abeokuta

The Ogun State Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Mrs Modupe Mujota, and the Chairman, Board of Governors, Day Waterman College, College, Abeokuta, Mrs Olufunlola Aderinokun, have advised the graduating class of 2018 of the institution to remain persistent, focused and be ready to face challenges.

They made this known last Friday at the school’s graduation where the principal of the school, Mr. Stewart Cowden, also advised the pupils to be bold, confident and never take anything for granted as they move to next the level in their educational pursuits.

Mujota said, “You will face challenges in life but you must never give up because challenges make life interesting and overcoming them makes life meaningful. You are ‘vibrant fliers’ and being humble, as well as receptive to new ideas would make you go far in life. Detest procrastination with all might. As you bask in the euphoria of your graduation, don’t forget those who made it possible. Remember those who helped you when you were down. Imbibe the virtues of discipline and sacrifice.”

On her part, Aderinokun, who is the wife of the late founder of the school, Mr Olutayo Aderinokun, thanked the parents and guardians for believing in its academic excellence. “Good structure without students amounts to nothing. Continue to seek self improvement, remain focused in the face of odds, and never be too proud to learn at every stage of your lives. Appreciate people, behave in a dignified way always, be disciplined and obey rules. Always work hard and be honest at all times. You have to be persistent and believe in yourself.”

Aderinokun also called on the parents to continue to contribute to the scholarship fund of the school, as a pupil on scholarship, Favour Okpapi, emerged the best graduating student, clinching 10 different prizes in both arts and science subjects.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]