Lagos introduces digitised answer sheet
Tare Youdeowei

In a bid to stamp out impersonation and all other forms of examination malpractice, the Lagos State Government has invented a digitised theory answer sheet.

The innovatation was made public during the unveiling of its pilot phase on Tuesday in the 2018 Basic Education Certificate Examination for JSS 3 pupils.

While it was first used in 200 junior schools across 20 local government areas in the state, the Director, Lagos State Examinations Board, Mr Oluwafemi Hassan, described the innovation as a proof of the state’s zero tolerance for malpractice.

His words, “This is a Basic Education Certificate Exam for public and approved private junior secondary schools in the state which have students passing out of JSS 3. It is the minimum certificate a Nigerian child should have in line with the basic education policy. Because of the importance of this exam, the board has put in its best to make the conduct successful. An attempt to stamp out exam malpractice at this level of education necessitated the digital theory answer sheet.

“We have already done the digitisation of the objective answer sheet; that has been a success, so we are moving forward. The digital theory answer sheet, which is first of its kind in Africa, is a departure from the analog because with the analog the students had to write their names and bio data manually. With the digital, the bio data has been pre-written, the picture has been embossed and exam numbers are also on every sheet. This is so that swapping of answer sheets cannot be done.

Also, forensic analysis can be carried out where the need arises. Their passport photographs also help with identifying scripts to stamp out issues of missing scripts. Changing of exam class to copy each other, as well as impersonation, have been stamped out through this process,” Hassan said.

On her part, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Lagos State, Mrs Adebunmi Adekanye, said the goal of the state was not only to stamp out malpractice but to also build future leaders who independent and confidennt.

She said, “From the beginning, from the placement, we made sure the JSS1 enrolment process was digitised and the questions were randomnised so that there was no cheating. Now, going from JSS3 to SS1, this digitisation process is to show the world that Lagos has zero tolerance for exam malpractice. It is therefore a fair, free and open examination for BECE.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]