NUT bemoans poor condition of Edo schools
Alexander Okere, Benin

The Edo State chapter of the Nigeria Union of Teachers has called on the Edo State Government to take urgent steps to address the challenges facing the basic education in the state.

The NUT said that it was worried about the deplorable condition of public schools across the 18 local government areas of the state.

The union told The PUNCH on Thursday that many of the schools were in dire need of the personnel to cater for the increasing number of pupils.

It said, “We are not equally happy about it (situation). When we paid a courtesy call on members of the Post-Primary Education Board, we itemised the problems. I know that they told us that the government was doing its best to ensure that the things (problems) are fixed.

“There is no need shying away from the truth; our schools are grossly under-staffed. If you say you want results (and) you want the best from the teachers, the human resources that will put the best should be on ground.

“In secondary schools, teachers teach in their subject areas. But in a situation where you have one principal and a teacher, when the school is supposed to offer about 11 subjects, I think such is counter-productive.”

The State Chairman of the union, Mr. Pius Okhueleigbe, who spoke to our correspondent on the telephone, also lamented that that the structures in many of the schools were in a deplorable condition.

“I know the previous administration did its best but we still expect the government to do more. There are no seats for the pupils even in the ones renovated by the past administration,” Okhueleigbe added.

Asked if the union would recommend a state of emergency to reposition basic education in the state, he said, “Well, it is supposed to be like that. But the government is complaining of shortage of funds. That is the area where we are not too comfortable.”

The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, had on June 21 ordered the closure of all primary and secondary schools with dilapidated structures in the state to pave the way for reconstruction work.

Obaseki, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, said that while such schools had been shut down, students and pupils in the affected schools had been relocated to other schools that would be announced soon.

He had also noted that the renovation work was expected to cover 1,200 public schools in the state, with the first batch of 230 schools captured in the pilot phase of the exercise.

But the NUT chairman said that though the union had not been formally informed about the plan, the decision could overwhelm other schools that were expected to accommodate the affected staff and pupils.

Okhueleigbe asked, “Is it by shutting down the schools? Even when the immediate past administration renovated schools, none was shut down. What about the pupils? Where will they be taken to? Are there enough facilities in the alternative schools to accommodate the pupils?

“There is going to be an explosion of pupils, if you move pupils from one school to the other. By so doing, there would be no meaningful teaching and learning.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]