Mornings with Mama awakens parents to their roles
Tare Youdeowei and Oluwatobi Akindele

Olufunke Fowler- Amba, daughter of a leading educationist, Chief Leila Fowler, has unveiled a book she wrote on her experience with the mum, who is the founder of Vivian Fowler Memorial College for Girls, Oregun, Lagos.

The book unveiled on Wednesday at Metropolitan Club, Victoria Island, Lagos documents the values the author learnt from her mother, while it is also a call for the reorientation of adults and children to make Nigeria a better place.

Fowler-Amba said her motivation, in addition to honouring and appreciating the old Fowler, was to impress on this generation the value of learning from the older.

“My children and I were also inspired by the book, Tuesday with Morrie. It made me see the importance of documenting experiences. A friend had told me to document my morning meetings with my mother but I brushed it off till I read the book. The book showed me the value and power of storytelling and sharing experiences as a way of helping readers on their journey. My book helps to stress the value of learning from the older generation. It shows lessons can be learnt from the past to strengthen today.

“My mother and extended family motivated me. Mother is the glue that kept us together. Her hard work and resilience has been a guiding light in my life. History and rapid changes also motivated me. Attitudes, habits and cultures have changed. The sense of community is gone; thus the essence of the book is to document the values I learnt from my mother so children can learn.”

WIMBIZ Publisher, Mrs Olubunmi Aboderin-Talabi, who described the 109-page book with 13 chapters as a life guide for everyone, did the first reading from it.

She also said, “The book is for parents, entrepreneurs and families. It essentially teaches its readers to be productive human beings. It speaks of how the author learnt time, money and self management from her mother. The book talks on values and going the extra mile to respect people. It teaches that, like Mama, even if you have many friends, let only few people into your inner space and the relationship should be based on honesty, humility, respect and openness.”

On his part, the Chairman of the event, Chief Bode Emmanuel, described it as unique.

He said, “ We are here to honour someone who has taken pains to document her relationship with her mother. This is nicely strange because from childhood to puberty, girls are more inclined to be devoted to their fathers.”

The Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, urged parents to play their roles well in grooming the young.

“We are sadly confining education to what we learn in a classroom. We need to remember that education involves exposure, what you learn in the community. As such, we need to be introspective and decide what we want to contribute to the society on an individual level to make it better,” said Gbajabiamila.

Responding to the show of love, Chief Fowler expressed amazement at the kind words extended to her.

She said, “I am amazed that all that that is me! Thank you for appreciating me. Do not love your children so much so you become blind to their weaknesses or cannot punish them when they err. There should be a strong family life at home and in school. Devote the weekends to your children; sit with them, be their friends, listen to their pains, because they have pains at their level.

There is a lot to learn from them. By doing this, and by being a living example of good values as parents, you will have a good close knit family. We still have a lot to learn to make Nigeria great. We all have a role to play.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]