Winners emerge in the AACLE international essay competition
Winners have emerged in the pilot essay competition organised by a United Kingdom-based company, AACLE International, in partnership with Hon. Taiwo Kemi Oluga, Special Adviser on Tourism and Culture to Governor Rauf Aregbesola of Osun State.

The winners are Mary Oyetade, a student of Victory College, Ode Omu, who came first and was given a scholarship valued at N150, 000; Blessing Akperi of Baptist High School, Iwo, who came second and got a N100, 000. worth scholarship while Alade Funmilayo also of Victory College, Ode Omu, came third and got a scholarship worth N50, 000.

The three winners are from public and private schools within the Osun West Senatorial district where Oluga hails from.

At the presentation ceremony held at the Ministry of Culture and Tourism secretariat in Osogbo, the Osun State, last Tuesday, Hon. Oluga commended the students for the creativity and brilliance exhibited in the competition and counselled them to be internet-savvy and use the social networks positively, saying that any student not familiar with information technology would not go far in today’s world.

She encouraged the parents and guests present to pay more attention to the activities of their children and wards on social networks because of its many inherent negative influences.

In his goodwill message, the Chief Executive Officer of AACLE International, Nigeria, Mr. Tewo Oke, said AACLE UK Ltd was a world class enterprise solution hub incorporated in the United Kingdom by Nigerian professionals in the Diaspora with a focus on empowering Nigerian youths through the provision of S-M-A-R-T solutions to educational, health and business challenges.

The head office is located at The Sunderland Software City in the North East of England, one of the world’s leading destinations for technology innovation and enterprise.

Oke said, “The core of AACLE Limited’s vision is to provide viable solutions to elemental problems affecting the youth across Nigeria and Africa.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]