Indecent dressing not an excuse for harassment, says NANS president
Dayo Ojerinde spoke with the President of the National Association of Nigerian Students, Aruna Kadiri, on the sex scandals rocking some universities

What is the position of NANS on students who beg lecturers for marks?

It is not wrong to beg for marks. But for lecturers, there are rules and regulations guiding their profession. If it is right, then they should give to whoever is begging for marks. If it is wrong, they should send them out of their offices.

To be honest, there is little or nothing we can do as NANS. We can’t ask students not to plead for marks, but the lecturers should follow the rules. But it becomes wrong when the lecturer accepts money. If this is found out, then the students and the lecturer should go. We will not support that.

Some people have said that indecent dressing leads to sexual harassment. What is your opinion on this?

As much as we don’t encourage our students to dress indecently, no lecturer should hide under that to harass anyone. A lecturer is like a parent to the student. If you dress indecently, will it arouse your father at home? Will your father harass you sexually because you have dressed indecently?

You are not awarded a certificate for learning alone, but also for character. So, if the lecturer cannot mould you character-wise, then you are not fit and worthy of the certificate. Now, instead of the lecturer moulding students character-wise, he is harassing them, thus he is not fit to be a lecturer, he is not fit to be a parent to students.

As much as we don’t condone indecent dressing, it is not a yardstick for the lecturer to sexually harass a student.

What is your reaction to the sacking of the lecturer involved in the sex for marks scandal in OAU?

It was an issue we have been pursuing and this is a victory for us at NANS, a victory for all Nigerian students. We sent several messages to the OAU management that if the case was swept under the carpet, we would do everything within our power to embarrass the school and the management has done something noble, as such, it is a win-win for everybody,

I always tell fellow students: when it happens, it is not enough to say it, prove it beyond reasonable doubt so that we can pursue it to a logical conclusion. The case in OAU, the lady was able to prove her case beyond reasonable doubt.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]