Rotary Club donates furniture to Lagos school
Eric Dumo

The Rotary Club of Palmgrove Estate, Lagos, has donated desks and chairs to Estate Grammar School, Ilupeju.

The organisation said the gesture was part of its effort at promoting quality education and conducive learning environment in the community.

While presenting the items to the Principals of the junior and senior wings of the school on Wednesday, President of the club, Mr. Atul Kshetry, said the club would continue to support efforts aimed at providing more children with access to quality education.

According to him, apart from the desks and chairs donated, the club had also provided potable water and good sanitary facilities in the school for the benefit of the pupils.

He said, “Rotary has always been about serving humanity and education is one of the most important things to us. We have adopted this school as part of our corporate social responsibility.

“We will continue to support the school in the best ways we can to improve the quality of education and learning at the place.”

While thanking the club for the gesture, principal of the senior school, Mrs. Adams Folake, said that the donated items would go a long way in improving the performance of pupils in class.

She said, “We are happy about what Rotary Club has done for us. This gesture will go a long way in making learning easier for our pupils. I believe this will mark a new dawn in academics and improved performance among pupils.”

An official of the district education board, Mr. Obayomi Davies, called on other well-meaning organisations within the community and in fact other parts of the state to complement government’s effort by supporting schools with relevant academic items.

He said, “We are urging other organisations to support education in Lagos through gestures like this. We believe that this will improve the standard of education in the state.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]