OAU don urges students to join fight against rape
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

A Consultant Psychiatrist and Senior Lecturer at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Dr. Boladale Mapayi, has called on undergraduates and other youths to join the fight against rape, sexual harassment and other gender-based violence in the country.

Mapayi said this at a public lecture organised by a non-governmental organisation, Gender Mobile and the Student Union of the Federal Polytechnic, Ede, Osun State, against the growing incidence of GBV in the country.

She said students could do a lot to fight the practice especially by using modern technology, such as phones and other devices, to expose the perpetrators, saying any form of coercion or blackmail used to make a victim succumb to pressure could be exposed.

According to the lecturer, rape and sexual harassment are not only being committed by persons not known to victims but also by persons known to the victims.

Mapayi said, “The role of students and stakeholders in combating sexual and gender violence, which has plagued our society with a ripple effect on children, cannot be overemphasised. Ladies, who are usually at the receiving end of this anomaly should begin to speak up and protect themselves from harm. It is our responsibility to help people stay away from harmful places which can cause problems.”

The don added that many females in the country were more frequently being sexually abused than their male counterparts.

Mapayi further lamented the spate of early marriage in the country, saying a large number of girls were married off before they turned 15.

She, however, stated that speaking against GBV collectively, by all stakeholders, would help to stem the tide because the perpetrators would no longer have a hiding place.

Mapayi also decried the refusal of some people to stop traditional harmful practices, such as female genital mutilation, despite the promulgation of the law to ban it. “The National Demographic Health Survey showed that 28 per cent of women aged 15 to 49 have experienced physical violence at least once since age 15, and 11 percent experienced physical violence within the 12 months prior to the survey.

“Twenty five per cent of married women, aged 15 to 49, report having experienced emotional, physical, or sexual violence from their spouse. Fourty three percent of girls in Nigeria are married off before they are 18 years old. Out of the 43 percent, 17 per cent are married off before they are 15 years old.

“Over 200,000 girls in Nigeria are affected by the complications of Vesico Vaginal Fistula often as an aftermath of early marriage or childbirth. Domestic violence, specifically intimate partner violence, accounted for 44 per cent, being the highest among circumstances surrounding incidents of GBV. This is an indication that safety and security of women and girls is a concern even in environments that are ideally meant for their protection.”

The Founder and Project Head of Gender Mobile, Omowunmi Ogunrotimi, said the group would continue to carry out awareness programmes against GBV in order to help in preventing and remedying the cases.

Ogunrotimi said students, apart from speaking out against GBV, should also sensitise victims and vulnerable persons to stop non-disclosure in order to expose the perpetrators and stop the acts.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]