Osun performance in WASSCE has improved, says commissioner
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Osun State Commissioner for Education, Mr. Wasiu Omotunde-Young, has said the performance of pupils in the West African Senior School Certificate Examination has improved by 284 per cent.

Omotunde-Young said this at a press conference in Osogbo on Thursday.

He said the state recorded just 15.68 per cent in WASSCE in 2010 just before Governor Rauf Aregbesola assumed office but said the state achieved this feat through the deliberate efforts of his administration to reposition the education sector.

He stated that the administration attached so much importance to the sector while stressing that this was why the administration embarked on massive infrastructural development in schools across the state and to also reinvigorate the school feeding programme.

He said, “To ensure truth is told and records are straightened for all to know, so that the public will no longer be misled, the Ministry of Education applied to the West Africa Examination Council to officially furnish us with performance results from 2006-2017 in the West African Senior School Certificate Examination.

“The results, official from WAEC , show that the best performance by students in Osun for those with five credits including English and Mathematics in the West African Senior School Certificate Examination in the five years before Aregbesola was 15.68 per cent.

“With the focussed, deliberate and purposeful intervention of the Government led by Aregbesola in the Education Sector, the State has achieved 284 per cent improvement in the performance of students in same examinations from 15.68 per cent in 2010 to 44.47 per cent in 2017 examinations.

“Not good enough yet, but it is a pointer to a better future based on the foundation laid by Aregbesola which should beallowed to germinate to fruition with continuity, by those who share his vision.”

The commissioner said that Aregbesola was working to ensure that the sector in the state produced educated persons who were honest, courageous and rational. Such, he said, must be fluent in their mother tongue and at least one international language.

The Aregbesola administration, he said, set up Quality Assurance and the Morality Enforcement Agency and deployed education marshals which he added had led to a substantial reduction in moral decadence and indiscipline among pupils.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]