Edo, PDP trade blame over state of schools
Alexander Okere, Benin

The Edo State Government and the Peoples Democratic Party have traded blames over the poor condition of some public primary and secondary schools in the state.

Governor Godwin Obaseki had on Thursday ordered the closure of dilapidated schools across the state, less than 24 hours after a video showing the deplorable condition of Holy Aruosa Primary School in Benin went viral on the Internet.

Obaseki had fumed over the alleged failure of teachers in the school to obey a government directive to relocate the pupils to a nearby one and, therefore, ordered an investigation into the matter.

But the state chapter of the PDP accused the state government of allegedly paying attention to only schools which usually serve as polling centres, since they were tools for propaganda, an allegation the government denied.

Reacting, the state government said that the PDP lacked the moral uprightness to speak on reforms in the educational sector.

In statement by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, the government argued that opposition did not make any meaningful impact in the sector, which was left in state of decay.

The statement added, “Edo people have not forgotten the images of the sorry state of public schools in the state, until the All Progressives Congress took the bull by the horns and replaced what was left of public schools with red roof buildings.

“Spokesman for the Edo PDP acknowledged that the APC administration reconstructed some schools but claimed that only schools used as polling centres were reconstructed. Even if we want to accept his claim, how many public primary and secondary schools were reconstructed by the PDP-led administration? Count one and we will count 100.”

However, the opposition party described the closure of Holy Aruosa Primary School on Friday as an after-thought.

It said, “More unforgivable is the statement that they will investigate why the initial relocation order of pupils and teachers of Holy Aruosa Primary School was ignored. This is an after-thought and should be beneath even a government as clueless and insensitive as this Godwin Obaseki-led government.

“The major reason Holy Aruosa Primary School suffered this fate is because it is not a polling centre. This government and its predecessor government, in preparation for the 2012 and 2016 elections, applied some cosmetic renovations over and over again to the same schools that were voting centres in an attempt to hoodwink Edo people.”

Meanwhile, following the shutdown of the schools, Obaseki, through Osagie, said, “All such schools with dilapidated structures have been shut down with immediate effect. Students and pupils in the affected schools are hereby relocated to other schools that will be announced soon.”

He noted that as part of efforts to improve the education sector, the administration had taken an inventory of schools across the state and categorised them according to the condition of their facilities and needs. “It is obvious that Holy Aruosa Primary School and Osula Primary School, among others, fell in the third category and require urgent attention. The worst of them, like Holy Aruosa, were shut down.

“The renovation work is expected to cover 1,200 public schools in the state, with the first batch of 230 schools captured in the pilot phase of the exercise. We assure that work will soon commence at these schools within Benin metropolis and other parts of the state.

“The state government will expedite action on the renovation work to ensure that our pupils learn in a conducive environment, even as we roll out the Edo Basic Education Sector Transformation programme to some of these schools in coming weeks,” Obaseki said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]