Stakeholders call for review of education policy
Eric Dumo

Stakeholders in Nigeria’s education sector have called for a review of the country’s educational policies, arguing that it is the best way the standard of learning can be improved.

Making the call at the 2018 Eduskill Fair organised by the International Educational Management Network in Lagos, experts from across the sector said that urgent steps must be taken to restore education back to the best standard.

Founder and President of IEDUMAN, Dr. Onyeka Jaivbo-Ojigbo, while urging parents to invest more resources and time in the education of their children and society at large, said that with the right policies from government, educational institutions would begin to deliver more manpower needed to fully develop the country.

She said, “Parents have crucial roles to play in the advancement of education in this country. They shouldn’t leave it all to teachers. They have to encourage their children to acquire a vocation, that is, learn a skill so they would be useful to themselves even after schooling.

“I have visited several states and I see that the governments there are trying to improve the standards in the educational system. But I think we need to do more, especially at a national level, to fully get to where we should be.

“We must build our education system to a level where people don’t have to wait for certificates to get jobs. Skills acquisition must be at the core of our education policy because that is the only way we can begin to solve problems of unemployment in the country.”

Also speaking at the event, a professor with the University of Ibadan, Adams Onuka, said that reviewing the education policy would yield a lot of benefits not just for academic institutions but the society at large.

He said, “We can get policies, for instance, from Korea, Finland, or England, put a team together to work on it and subsequently bring the outcome before the public for deliberation.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]