FUTO VC decries increase in destitution
Gibson Achonu, Owerri

The Vice Chancellor of the Federal University of Technology Owerri, Prof. Francis Eze, has expressed concern at the rising level of poverty and high maternal and infant mortality rate in the world.

He also expressed concern at the level of unemployment, gender-based violence, insecurity, poor health care, inept waste management as well as disease outbreaks.

He explained that one of the most commonly used measures for international health comparison, which reflected among other things, the quality of healthcare in countries, was life expectancy.

According to him, in one of the recent World Health Organisation’s life expectancy rankings, Japan occupied the first position with 74.9 years, while Nigeria was at the 177th out of 183 countries with 47.7 years.

Eze stated this on Monday while declaring open the seventh International Conference of the Institute of Women, Gender and Development Studies of the university which had the theme, ‘Gender, Health and Sustainable Development.’

He said, “I remind you participants that a healthy nation is a wealthy nation. I also urge you to generate ideas and proffer solutions from the gender perspective, on ways of tackling the challenges posed by poor health and inadequate health care services on the attainment of sustainable development in the country and the world at large.”

Taking cognizance of the nation’s dwindling economic fortune, the VC further called on the participants to identify new areas of mobilising financial resources, expertise and collaborate with relevant national and international partners, as well as stakeholders.

This, he said, would go a long way to augment government’s effort in the funding of teaching and research and the attainment of sustainable development.

Eze gave the assurance that FUTO would continue to provide the enabling environment and platform for knowledge generation and dissemination.

Earlier in her address, the Director of the Institute, Prof. G.N. Okwu, disclosed that the institute had continued to organise an annual conference since its inception, aimed at providing a platform for knowledge generation, dissemination and intellectual exchange.

According to her, the conference theme was conceived to draw attention to the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (No. 3) targeted at ensuring healthy lives and promoting wellbeing for all at all ages.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]