Why Babcock varsity Accountancy programme is unique
A pioneer lecturer in the Departmemt of Accountancy, Babcock University, Illishan Remo, Ogun State, Prof. Ishola Akintoye, has attributed the uniqueness and educational achievements of the department to the steadfastness of the founding fathers and erudite professors that laid the foundation of the accounting profession at the institution.

Akintoye, who made this disclosure during the pre-2018 convocation lecture held recently at the main auditorium of the institution, also said that it took the visionary leadership provided by a former Vice-Chancellor of the University, Prof. James Makinde, to start the full-fledged accountancy department at the Masters and PhD levels.

He said that, having secured the go-ahead of steering the ship of the department with a personal vision and clear set of goals with the cooperation of two other professors, Makinde had repositioned the department and set the necessary machinery in motion to ensure that the Phd programme in accountancy, which had been previously denied the department, was approved in less than two years..

Akintoye stated that the uniqueness of the PhD Accounting programme at the university lay in the use of the collaborative model where 70 per cent of all courses and seminars were assessed by external assessors assembled from about 10 different federal and state-owned, as well as private universities in Nigeria, while only 30 per cent were assessed internally.

He said, “This model among others has made it possible for the university to produce the history-making 19 PhD candidates within the NUC stipulated period of six semesters with qualitative PhD theses, some of which have already won grants.”

The professor recounted how candidates went through a rigorous title defence in adherence to best global practice and contemporary discourse in accounting and allied matters, which led to three of them immediately winning research grants valued at N0.5m each in a PhD competition organised by the ICAN and three others winning best conference paper presentations at the University of Lagos and Covenant University, respectively.

“Let me reiterate that this success story looks almost smooth but definitely not without nightmares, sleeplessness and agony of a pregnant mother. There were temptations to even resign my job at the peak of confrontations/agitations, but to His glory, God sustained me till this time. This is also partly due to the constant encouragement that I received from Prof. Makinde, Prof. Stephen Ademola and my direct boss, Prof. Iheanyichukwu Okoro, who was there every day and night for me in all circumstances,” he said.

On the collaboration with ICAN, ACCA and the accounting industry, Akintoye declared that the university went into collaboration with ICAN by running an integrated curriculum for five years and allowing BSc graduates to write the final level of ICAN professional examinations in year five, a feat that continued till year 2014 when there were agitations from some members of ICAN to cancel same on the account of likely watering down its examination standard which took some of them more than 10 years to complete.

“We won our argument against the cancelation of the MoU through a court injunction preventing the planned monitored discussion at the ICAN AGM of May 2015 to allow our students already admitted to complete while planning alternative strategies.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]