Provost decries large population of ‘accidental’ teachers in schools
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Provost of the Osun State College of Education, Ilesa, Prof. Kolawole Kazeem, has decried the large population of incompetent teachers in Nigerian schools.

Speaking during an event organised by the Association of Veteran Journalists in Oshogbo, capital of Osun State, on Thursday, Kazeem said that 90 per cent of those currently teaching in primary and secondary schools across the country took up the job because there was nothing else for them to do.

The provost stressed that the presence of such ‘accidental’ teaching personnel in schools had negatively impacted educational development in Nigeria.

Blaming the teaching problems facing the country on the scrapping of the Grade 2 Teacher Education, he said, “The decision to scrap the Grade 2 Teacher Education many years ago has done great disservice to the teaching profession and the education sector, just like the removal of History as a subject from the secondary school curriculum did.

“It takes time to build an enduring educational system, but there is a general love for finding quick and temporary solutions to problems in Nigeria. It is everywhere and it is not helping us.

“The employment of accidental teachers in the nation’s education system is alarming. Many who are engaged in teaching especially in primary and secondary schools are not prepared for the job. They are accidental teachers and they are very many. In fact, about 90 per cent of teachers in the country fall into this category. This is not helping the development of our education system.”

Kazeem urged employers of teachers to always recruit competent persons who are also passionate about teaching, saying this would make them to be committed to their jobs.

Describing quality teachers as the future of any nation, he noted that without their input there would not be national development.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]