Introduce friendly policies for child education, UNICEF tells FG
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The United Nations Children’s Fund has called on the Federal Government to introduce and implement friendly policies that will support childhood education and development.

The agency said that such “national-family-friendly” policies must include a paid paternity leave that would enable Nigerian fathers to spend more time with their babies and invest in their education and healthy living.

The UNICEF Nigeria Representative, Mr Malick Fall, in a statement released on Thursday, commended the Federal Government for its commitment to extending the maternity leave from 12 to 16 weeks.

Fall noted that there was a need to extend such provision to the fathers as it is in Brazil and the Democratic Republic of Congo, two countries that had high infant populations.

He said, “By implementing national family-friendly policies that support early childhood development, including paid paternity leave, the government can provide parents the time, resources and information they need to care for their children.

“The government’s recent commitment to extend the maternity leave from 12 to 16 weeks indicates to me that the momentum for family-friendly policies in Nigeria is growing. Investments in the provision of support services to caregivers as well as quality pre-primary education and good nutrition for children are investments in healthy and productive future Nigerian generations.”

UNICEF said in the statement that more than two-thirds of the world’s children or nearly 90 million children live in countries where the fathers are not entitled by law to a paid paternity leave.”

“Positive and meaningful interaction with mothers and fathers from the beginning helps to shape children’s brain growth and development for life, making them healthier and happier, and increasing their ability to learn.

“Evidence suggests that when fathers bond with their babies from the beginning of life, they are more likely to play a more active role in their child’s development. Research also suggests that when children positively interact with their fathers, they have better psychological health, self-esteem and life-satisfaction in the long-term.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]