Yejide girls win Ibadan quiz, debate competition
Olufemi Atoyebi, Ibadan

The final of the third edition of the Omo Oloore Quiz and Debate Competitions, in which 131 schools participated, was held in Ibadan on Tuesday with Yejide Girls Grammar School Molete, Ibadan winning the first prize in the Public Secondary Schools category.

In the Private Secondary Schools category, Solam Model College, Ibadan took the first position, while Ayodele Samuel Memorial Primary School, Molete, Ibadan came first in the Public Primary Schools category. Champion Nursery and Primary School, Ibadan was declared the winner of the competition in the Private Primary Schools category.

Winners in the quiz competitions are Emerald Laurel Comprehensive College, Ebire Crèche School, Eleta High School and Ayodele Samuel Memorial Primary School.

The sponsor of the competition, Dapo Lam-Adesina, who is a member of the National Assembly representing Ibadan North East/South East Federal Constituency, told our correspondent that the vision behind the initiative was to give the pupils an avenue to express themselves and attain a high level of education, using quiz and debate as tools.

He said, “Education is a pillar of development and I believe it is extremely vital for us to support whatever the government is doing in order to achieve quality growth. In this edition, we introduced a new level in prize giving. Instead of the schools being the major beneficiaries, we ensured that pupils who took part went home with iPads embedded with textbooks and past questions.

“The competition has encouraged our young ones to be consistent and also strengthen their spirit of sportsmanship, the selected schools have gone through two months preliminaries and we are hoping it would get better next year.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]