NIDSS unveils Nigerian Safe School Week
Tare Youdeowei

The National Intelligence Department for School Safety has unveiled the Nigerian Safe School Week, which is designed to foster participation and dialogue among stakeholders in the education and security sectors towards promoting sustainable policies for the safety of pupils and schools.

The week, scheduled to hold between October 8 and 12, 2018, is an annual event that highlight best practices on how to make schools safe and secure through balanced safety drills for pupils and schools’ staff.

Speaking at the unveiling in Egbeda, Lagos, the Director of Myk Crime Control Services, Kola Aladegbeye, said the event was geared towards developing safety conscious pupils, “It is to awaken adults to creating schools that are safe for children and developing pupils that are safety conscious. It is going to be an annual event where pupils and teachers meet to exchange safety ideas and be trained in safety tips, essentially, it is about coming togther to improve safety,” he said.

Also, the Managing Director of Myk Crime Control Services, Dayo Oshunmakinde, disclosed that the idea of the safety week was born out of the experience of a relative who was kidnapped five years ago.

He said, “The experience prompted me to start gathering information from developed countries on how to teach pupils about safety. Also, I went as far carrying out practicals in schools to prove that despite the fact they had security guards, they and the pupils were not safety conscious.

“In addition to security guards, schools should invest in security gadgets, training for the members of their staff and pupils. It is better to train a child than to repair an adult. That is why we are targeting primary and secondary school pupils so that they know that they have a role to play in their personal safety.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]