My friends thought I was crazy to study CRS – Babcock varsity best graduating student
With a GPA of 4.97, Michael Agbojo recently emerged the Overall Best Graduating Student of Babcock University, Ilishan-Remo, Ogun State. He shares his experience in this interview with CHUX OHAI. Excerpts:

How does it feel to be the overall best graduating student of your university?

It is a humbling experience. I really can’t believe what God has done in my life.

It is impressive to graduate with a Grade Point Average of 4.97. How were you able to achieve this feat?

The truth is that it was not easy for me to get this far. Like most other Nigerian youths, I had some challenges while in school. But God came to my rescue and helped me to overcome them.

What were the challenges you faced in school?

There was a time when it looked as if I would have to drop out of the university because I couldn’t pay my school fees. It was really a tough time for me and it affected my result for that semester.

What level were you at the time?

It was during the second semester. I was in 300 level.

How come you couldn’t pay your fees? Were you sponsoring your education yourself?

It is a long story. First, let me thank God for seeing me through the crucible of my academic life. More or less, I was sponsoring my education myself. My parents were incapacitated financially because of some business partnership that went wrong in 2010. At a point, I was on sponsorship, but it was later withdrawn.

Who was your sponsor then and why did he withdraw?

It was a goodwill sponsorship from a small group, but they couldn’t continue anymore. And at that crucial time, God stepped in.

How were you able to pay your fees during that period?

Some children of God started showing their solidarity and started contributing towards my fees. I owe them a world of gratitude. Some of these benevolent people are Prof. Oduyoye, Pastor Adesina Femi, Pastor M.O. Akpa and Pastor T.U Dickson. Also, the Leo Class 2018 was quite helpful through the ‘Help a Leo Roar’ initiative. The list goes on, but I just want to mention only f a few. They are all indelible in the chapters of the story of my life.

How was growing up?

Growing up was very good. My parents did their best in raising me and I am proud of them. Mum is a disciplinarian, but she balances that quality very well with openness. My siblings and I could talk to her about anything and everything under the sun. She instilled the fear of God in us, which is the foundation upon which every other training were built

Dad is the type that has a little of the western life world view. So he gave us the kind of exposure that was necessary for a child growing up in this generation. I was exposed to computer, email, and all that quite early. They were all helpful.

You could have studied any other course in the university. Why did you settle for Christian Religious Knowledge?

I was first a Computer/Electronic student in Lead City University. I had to drop out of school in 200 level because of my parents’ business partnership that went wrong. So they could not afford to pay my tuition fees anymore.

But then I decided to continue with my life and not give in to that setback

So I went into rap music. I wanted to use my music to make a difference. I wanted it to be my own voice, but the promoters I met wanted to change my point of view. Because of my background and training though, I could not easily give in to what they requested of me. I already had two tracks that I had recorded and wanted to start pushing. But because of that condition, they did not support those tracks.

What they requested from me was vulgar and radical lyrical music… It was a tough decision to make. At a point, I decided to give in to their demand and accept the proposal. I left Ibadan for my home in Ijebu Ode, only for me to get home to meet a Bible study series and evangelism going on in my dad’s church. The church is located in our compound. I went into my room, dropped my bag and entered the church.

I could have just closed up my mind and just let the preachers make their usual noise. But something caught my attention and, for the first time, I saw a bible study session accompanied with illustrations. The preacher was illustrating all he was saying with beautiful pictures, logical arguments and most importantly, biblical facts.

I only intended to stay for three days before going back to Ibadan to embark on that journey of no return (at least that’s what I had in mind). But my dad made me to stay for the whole 14-day programme.

That was how my life changed. I gave my life to Christ, got baptised after the programme and decided to leave that aspect of my life and have a relationship with Christ. This time, it had to be a more substantial relationship because, for the first time in my life, Christianity actually made sense and was rational to me.

This happened between 2009 and 2011.

An opening came up for a missionary assignment to my hometown. I joined the group of Bible teachers and pastors that went to pioneer the Seventh Day Adventist Church through house to house Bible study at Iwopin, Ijebu-Waterside, Ogun State in 2012. I spent a year and 11 months there. A lot of things happened in that period. There I got the deep impression that God had a plan for my life and that He wanted me to get involved in full time ministry.

That necessitated some preparation and equipping, hence, the need to come to Babcock University to study Christian Religious Studies. A lot of my friends thought I was crazy for choosing the course. One of them even said to me in Pidgin English, “Guy, bomb dey your head? You a first class student studying theology? You must be crazy.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]