Get involved in environmental conservation, lecturer tells students
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

An Associate professor of Parasitology/Ecology and Environmental Biology in the Department of Zoology, University of Ibadan, Dr. Olajumoke Abimbola, has called on students of tertiary institutions across the country to be involved in environmental conservation.

Olajumoke also urged government at all levels and individuals to take the steps to prevent certain plants and animals from going into extinction.

The don said this on Monday while presenting his address at the Youth Environmental Summit of the Nigerian Society for Environmental Conservation held in commemoration of the 2018 Save the Frogs Day.

He said, “We have to preserve pangolins, frogs and other small mammals. Failure to preserve these animals will pose a threat to the ecosystem. We all have to make conscious efforts towards animal conservation.”

Olajumoke, who is also the President of the Nigerian Association of Zoos and Parks, said that about eight per cent of animals had become extinct, while 22 per cent were already an endangered species.

The don lamented that some plants and animals useful for research could no longer be found in the wild, saying that conscious efforts must be made to prevent more from going into extinction in order not to cause disequilibrium in the ecosystem.

Also, a lecturer at the Department of Forestry and Wildlife, Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, Dr. Moses Oyatogun, described waste reduction, and recycling as crucial to environmental conservation.

Oyatogun said that waste could be converted to biogas to keep the environment clean and safe for humans and animals, warning that environmental degradation could jeopardise the future of mankind.

He highlighted the roles of youths in Nigeria conservation system and charged the emerging scholars to be fully involved in environmental conservation.

The former director of FUNAAB Zoo Park also urged the youths, whom he described as critical stakeholders, be fully involved in conservation.

“Generate ideas and volunteer your time. Learn new skills and stand out. For every of your idea, there are government agencies and non-governmental organisations that will support you if the idea is worthwhile. So, make use of the opportunities available to increase your worth,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]