Caleb varsity seeks global partnership
…as VC hosts CIBN president

Akeem Lasisi

The Vice- Chancellor of Caleb University, Imota, Prof. Ayandiji Aina, has said that the institution is seeking partnership with global brands, such as Harvard University and MIT, to entrench its vision for comprehensive education.

Aina said Caleb was pursuing this alongside its collaborations with financial institutions in Nigeria.

He noted this last Friday when he hosted the new President of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Nigeria, Mr. Uche Olowu.

At the event held at Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos, officials of both institutions explored ways of achieving mutual development which, they believe, will also benefit the country.

On Caleb’s determination to expand its focus, Aina said, “In the global best practices, the world is no longer a global village, but, as, I would call it, it is a ‘global parlour’. By the touch of the button, you are chatting with your friend anywhere. So, we are connecting with the best globalists. By next month, I will be in Harvard and MIT to explore those relationships. What we are doing is that we are connecting it with our relationship with the CIBN, ICAN and CITM. It is also important for us to connect with the global best human development, financial institutions in the area of global finance because whatever happens to Nigeria in terms of recession has a global implication.

“Nobody is an island. At the time we were in recession, Russia and some other countries were also witnessing the slow moment. Harvard and MIT are the organisations in charge of training of the best human finance capital in the world. With the umbrella body of the bankers in Nigeria, the umbrella body of the ICAN and that of CITM, we can come into a collaboration to ensure we develop certain custom-made programmes for the Nigerian operators in order for us to begin to see a new perspective in running our economy.”

Aina reiterated the university’s desire to build its student’s spiritual and moral endowments, as much as it does the academic.

He said, “It is part of our faith-based perspective. We don’t just want to say someone is a first-class accountant; it has to be a first-class accountant that is value based.

“We offer a value-based education where the accountant will not be an academic giant but a morale dwarf. To change that perspective, we offer value in addition to the curriculum. We are connecting with professional bodies, the manufacturing bodies and government agencies. We are also looking at the international level in order to get the synergy to propel human power and capital development from our own area of expertise to give Nigeria the best.”

On his part, Olowu said the CIBN had also decided to work towards getting a new curriculum for banking students.

According to him, the crop of students generally produced nowadays is deficient, adding that the institute was working towards injecting special programmes and certifications, while paying attention to technology.

He said, “Our research points to the falling standard in quality of education in terms of skills and others. This has led us to note that there should be a holistic approach towards arresting the decadence.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]