Envoy wants more Nigerian teachers in Tanzania
Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja

The High Commissioner of Tanzania to Nigeria, Muhidin Moweto, on Thursday requested the deployment of more Nigerian teachers in the country.

Moweto, who made the request shortly after presenting his Letter or Credence to President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, also expressed gratitude to the Federal Government for posting 41 teachers to Tanzania under the Technical Aid Corps programme of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

The envoy underscored the presence and positive roles of Nigerian firms in his country, particularly in the manufacturing and banking sectors.

‘’My primary objective is to strengthen and enhance existing relations of both nations and to take our economic ties to a new height. We need more Dangotes (companies) in Tanzania to help in developing the country,”the High Commissioner said.

The Tanzania envoy conveyed the appreciation of the President of Zanzibar, which is a semi-autonomous region within Tanzania, to Buhari for the deployment of 41 Nigerians teachers in the region.

“The teachers are doing very well,” Moweto said, appealing for the deployment of more Nigerian teachers to Tanzania.

Buhari however said that Nigeria was ready to boost economic ties with Tanzania, for the benefit of citizens of both countries.

He said both countries had a lot of potential which could make them key economic actors in the region.

The President congratulated the Government of Tanzania on the recent discovery of gas reserves in the coast region, noting that it offered a lot of opportunities for the country.

“Nigeria and Tanzania have a lot of potential. We will do our best to improve relations, which dates back to the pre-colonial era,” the President said.

In separate remarks, Buhari, who also received the letter of Credence from the Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to Nigeria, Lee In-Tae, commended the Korean government for its education development programmes in the country through the Korea International Cooperation Agency.

In his remarks, the Korean Ambassador praised Nigeria’s new economic plans encapsulated under the Economic Growth and Recovery Plan which, among others, targets seven per cent Gross Domestic Product growth rate in Nigeria by 2020.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]