US Consulate holds technology workshop for pupils
Tobi Aworinde

The United States Consulate General in Nigeria, in collaboration with the Baltimore-based Global Air Media, on Tuesday, concluded a two-day drone technology workshop for secondary school pupils and women Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics leaders.

The training was held at the Cedar STEM and Entrepreneurship Hub and American Corner at the Co-Creation Hub, both in Yaba, Lagos on Monday and Tuesday, respectively. A team of three drone experts led by Global Air Media co-founder Eno Umoh facilitated the series of workshops.

Thirty primary and secondary school pupils were coached on the basics of building a drone from the scratch, as well as the requisite skills for piloting and landing an unmanned aerial vehicle.

In addition to the students’ seminar, 13 female STEM leaders were mentored on the evolving technology needs of the 21st century, particularly in the fields of real estate and construction, cinematography, as well as humanitarian and emergency response.

The Public Affairs Officer, US Consulate Lagos, Ms. Darcy Zotter, explained that the hands-on workshop was designed to stimulate the interest of the participating students in math and science, as well as careers in the STEM fields.

“STEM enables us to find solutions to some of the most pressing issues of today such as alternative energy or even food security. Creating inventions to solve global challenges can be a catalyst for a country’s economic development,” Zotter said.

According to her, the US Mission in Nigeria has funded a number of projects to increase STEM education in different parts of the country.

She added that whether at home or abroad, promoting STEM education was a top priority of the US government.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]