Pupils of Corona School shine in public, internal examinations
The management of Corona Secondary School, Agbara, Ogun State, threw its gates open to visitors on Saturday, June 2 to join in the celebration of the achievements of its pupils in external and internal examinations.

During the school’s graduation and valedictory ceremony organised for the Class of 2018, the trio of Oluwakorede Akande; Salutorian, Stephanie Agana and the third Overall Best Pupil, Omobolanle Alashe, were cynosure of all eyes as they walked tall among their peers due to their academic accomplishments.

The Principal of the school, Mrs. Chinedum Oluwadamilola, in her speech titled, ‘The best is in you’, said she was pleased with the amazing achievements of the Class of 2018.

“They gave us an inkling of what to expect by smashing the Standardised Aptitude Test in December, 2017 and went on to give us the best IGCSE result in the school to date, where some of them made As in all the subjects they wrote. The Class of 2018 ‘humiliated’ the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board with 10 pupils scoring above 300 in the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination, over 75 per cent of them making 250 and above, and one of the pupils scoring the second highest in the country.

“I will not fail to congratulate this graduating class for being the class that produced the first and only secondary students in Nigeria to pass the foundation level of the ACCA. The impressive university admissions and mouthwatering scholarships deserve applause.”

Oluwadamilola urged the pupils to be worthy ambassadors of the school renowned for excellence.

“As agents of transformation, be sure to lead lives worthy of emulation and in all your future endeavours be guided by truth. Go and accomplish the extraordinary for only the very best is good enough for you,” she said.

In his speech, the guest speaker at the event and Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, thanked the school authorities for the privileged to address the graduating pupils.

Speaking on the theme, ‘Nothing but the best’, Ogundipe attributed the performance and successes recorded by the pupils to perseverance, determination and commitment to learning.

He urged the pupils to see themselves as already achieving greater things as they project their minds toward the future and to be managers of their minds, remain focused and never allow events around them to affect their goals.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]ng.com