Fulbright scholars to train 10,000 teachers in North-East
Hindi Livinus, Yola

Fulbright scholars, Motunrayo Ogunrinbokun and Milkay Garba, have said that the falling standard of education in Nigeria is due to the presence of unqualified teachers in the educational system.

Both scholars made the disclosure during a workshop organised for 150 English language teachers drawn from selected primary and secondary schools in the North East, in Yola, capital of Adamawa State, on Thursday.

Ogunrinbokun, who is the co-founder of an non-governmental organisation known as I Teach English Language, said their target was to reach 10,000 teachers of English Language in the North East by 2020.

“We have embarked on this campaign to teach English language under the Madnel Initiative for teachers of the English language in the North-East to hone their skills.

“Currently, about 50 per cent of schoolteachers in Nigeria are unqualified. This affects the pupils and the education system. The Kaduna teacher crisis is an example of the decline in teaching quality and this is the gap we intend to fill with the I Teach English Language workshop series. The training, therefore, aims to reach at least 10,000 teachers in the region by refining their teaching skills and also improving their knowledge of the subject (English).”

She said their phenomenal Fulbright experience, which gave them fresh perspectives on culture, teaching and education, had influenced the creation of the NGO.

“I have just started to fully explore the knowledge acquired during the programme. I would definitely say that the Fulbright programme and my stay at the University of Pennsylvania influenced the creation of my NGO,” she added.

Garba said they were laying the foundation for the development of pupils.

He said, “About 50 per cent of Nigeria schoolteachers are unqualified and this affects the pupils and the educational system. The decline in the quality of education in the country is due to this unaddressed challenge. We know that our programmes will definitely produce results irrespective of the deficiencies in our pedagogy.”

In her remarks, Mrs Emilienne Akpan of the American University of Nigeria said the limited time that teachers were given to effectively teach English language to non-native speakers in the North-East and the fact that many children did not move to advanced levels in their formal or informal literacy pursuits had adversely shaped the narratives about schools in the North East.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]