PTA seeks rehabilitation of Ondo school
Peter Dada, Akure

The Parent-Teacher Association of Aponmu Community High School, Aponmu, in Akure South Local Government Area of Ondo State, and members of the community have called on the state government to save the school from total collapse.

Lamenting the poor condition of the school, which is the only institution serving 50 communities in the LGA, the chairman of the association, Mr. Richard Oluwasegun, said that lack of classrooms had forced the pupils to study under trees.

Claiming that the few existing blocks of classrooms on the school premises were donated by the association, he said its efforts could no longer sustain the school due to the state government’s ban on the collection of money in schools.

Oluwasegun said, “In spite of that, the association went ahead to procure and fix burglary proofs at the block that accommodates the science laboratory, staff room and the principal’s office in recent time.

“A three-storied classroom block built by the Education Trust Fund during the tenure of the late Dr. Olusegun Agagu was meant to serve only Senior Secondary School 1, but it is now serving SSS 1 to 3.

“The last straw that broke the camel’s back, was the havoc wreaked on the school by rainstorm on May 3, 2018 when the roofs of the main examination hall and that of the blocks were blown off.”

In a reaction, the state Commissioner for Information, Mr. Yemi Olowolabi, said the government had embarked on massive renovation and rehabililtation of primary and secondary schools across the 18 local government areas of the state. He said, “The school in Aponmu is one of the schools that the government will renovate and very soon the school will wear a new and better look. We have commenced the rehabilitation of all schools in the state and Aponmu Community High School is among them.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]