Kano begins annual N2.4bn compulsory basic education
Ted Odogwu, Kano

The Kano State Government on Thursday formally flagged off the long-awaited Free and Compulsory Education Scheme at the basic and secondary school levels.

The scheme, which is expected to cost the state government over N2.4 billion annually, is in fulfillment of an earlier promise made by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje during his inauguration for a second term in office.

Speaking during the flag-off ceremony held at the Sani Abacha Indoor Sports Hall, Ganduje, said the initiative was premised on the good objective of uplifting the quality of life of the citizenry and enhancing sustainable socio-economic development in the state.

The governor explained that education for all required the state government to provide equal educational opportunities to all children in the state, as well as for the girl child, especially for the poor and rural families.

Ganduje enumerated other benefits of the scheme to include the out-of-school children enrolment for western education, including the integration of the Tsangaya/Almajirai educational system.

The governor also disclosed that the government had already abolished the payment of school fees in all public primary and secondary schools in the state, with effect from September.

‘’Upon this milestone, we are also prepared today to flag-off the funding component of the free and Compulsory Basic and Secondary Education programme, with the Direct funding of schools in the state, numbering 1,180, with a total student population of 834,366 at an average cost of N200 million or N2,4 Billion annually,” he said.

Ganduje noted that in its efforts to integrate Tsangaya schools into the programme, the state government had initiated a pilot scheme, with 52 selected Mega schools to receive direct funding.

In addition to the programme of direct funding, he added, the government, also provided school uniforms to 779,552 newly enrolled primary school pupils at the total cost of over N381 million.

Also, Ganduje said that the government, in a bid to reduce teacher deficiency in the sector, was in the process of engaging 3,000 volunteers to teach in the various public and Tsan-Tsangaya schools across Kano.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]