Lawmaker sponsors training for 950 Ondo pupils
Peter Dada, Akure

No fewer than 950 pupils of various secondary schools in Ondo East Local Government Area of Ondo State have undergone training in preparation for the next Junior Secondary School Examination and the West African Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination.

The training, which was tagged, ‘Landmark Summer Coaching’, was sponsored by a member of the Ondo State House of Assembly, Mr Olamide Oladiji, and it involved pupils of junior and senior secondary schools in the local government area.

Speaking on the development on Thursday, the lawmaker, who represents Ondo East Constituency, said the programme was part of the efforts to prepare the pupils for the JSSE and WASSCE.

According to him, the coaching was part of the electoral promises he made to advance quality education for pupils in his constituency. He added that the programme allowed the pupils to enjoy free and qualitative teaching from instructors recruited across some best schools in the local government.

He said, “I value education and I am into education. I was a school proprietor before I went into politics and I want the people around me to be educated.

“ I look at this long vacation as a period in which I can bring my wealth of experience in the academic to assist the people in my constituency. I was happy the programme was successful because the people embraced it. We are still going to do more and improve more on it.”

Oladiji urged the pupils to also go for training in Information and Communication Technology, saying “Technology is the in-thing nowadays. Without technology, it will be difficult for someone to succeed. Our school children must embrace it.”

In his remarks, the Caretaker Chairman of the Ondo East Local Government, Mr. Augustine Akinkuotu, commended the organiser of the training and urged other politicians in the state to emulate the lawmaker by organising more programmes that would help in improving the education sub-sector in the state.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]