‘Mathematics needs creativity of an artist’
Dayo Ojerinde

A contestant in the on-going Season five of the Cowbellpedia Secondary Schools Mathematics Television Quiz Show, Philip Awodiya, has said the steps involved in solving mathematics problems are similar to intrinsic patience and the creativity needed by an artist in his work.

Awodiya in a statement said each time he set out to draw as an artist, the calculation that involves Mathematics, helps in bringing out the creativity of the artwork.

“All that is required in tackling a mathematical problem is creative thinking and as an artist, the in-built mechanism is already there and that to a large extent gives me the desired edge”, he said.

In the Senior category preliminary Group F contest held last weekend in Lagos, Philip Oghenero Ologe of Zion field Private School, Lagos dusted the remaining four contestants in that category to clinch the two semifinal tickets.

In the junior category, Favour Ezekiel of Topfaith International Secondary School, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State and Faithful Unimashi of Saint Annes High school, Calabar, Cross River State grabbed the semi-final tickets.

Favour, who is still basking in the euphoria of her semi-final qualification, vow to give her best in the battle to the final.

“My Mummy has always encouraged me to give my best shot in this competition and I think that has helped me to this point and I believe it’s going to take me to the next level and possibly the crown,” she said.

Aside from the N2 million grand prize, the Managing Director of Promasidor Nigeria Limited, Mr Anders Einarsson, disclosed that the winner in each of categories, (junior and senior) will enjoy an all-expense paid educational excursion outside the country at the end of the quiz.

“Also, the first and second runners-up in each category will receive N1.5 million and N1 million respectively, while the teachers of the top prize winners will be awarded N500, 000. Those of the first and second runners-up will receive N400, 000 and N300, 000 respectively,” Einarsson said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]