Back-to-school: Akeredolu distributes learning materials
Dayo Ojerinde

The wife of the Governor of Ondo State, Mrs Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu, has distributed learning materials to schoolchildren in the state for the annual Back-to-School programme.

This year’s edition of the programme, held at Auga Community Grammar School in Akoko, also featured the presentation of Solayo kits to pregnant women, the distribution of incentives to teachers and presentation of gifts to the aged.

According to Akeredolu, the initiative, which commenced in 2017, was aimed at encouraging teachers and their pupils to take the teaching and learning process seriously every academic session.

The wife of the governor said she identified with the community, having hailed from a community that shares almost same fate with Auga, in terms of lack of socio-economic and human capital development.

She noted that Auga Community Crammar School was intentionally selected for the third edition of the Back-to-School programme in order to ascertain the level of government’s commitment towards education in rural communities.

Akeredolu stressed the need for individuals and governments to develop deliberate interest in communities and, therefore, advised the leaders of Auga community to work collaboratively towards its progress.

“The elite should constitute an all-embracing Community Development Committee in order to speak with one voice and attract sustainable development projects to the community.

“No quarter or section of the community must be left behind in seeking ways to develop the community. Every input from both the young and old, men and women, the educated and those without formal education will be required in achieving the desired goals of the community.

“Discrimination or marginalisation in any form must not be tolerated, as these are traits that act as brick walls to the development of any community or society”, she advised.

The Alauga of Auga-Akoko, Oba Samuel Agunloye, the Asulu V, commended the magnanimity of Mrs. Akeredolu for remembering the community, noting that she is the first wife of the State governor to ever visit them in person.

He lauded her efforts to put smile in the faces of women and children across the state through her various initiatives, like BEMORE, FOWOSO, SOLAYO, among others.

The monach, therefore, used the medium to acquaint her with some challenges confronting the community, which she promised to brief governor about.

Earlier, the Caretaker Chairman of Akoko North East, Mr. Ashimiyu Adekunle had also commended the First Lady for not defiling the insecurity situation in the area, and visited the community.

He described the Back-to-School initiative as a demonstration of her passion for education.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]