Rotary Club donates classrooms, furniture to school
Dayo Ojerinde

The Rotary Club of Ikeja has donated two blocks of classrooms and furniture to the Ikeja Junior High School, Lagos.

Speaking during the commissioning, the President of the club, Mr Olumuyiwa Fagbola, said intervention in the area of basic education and literacy was one of the six areas of focus of Rotary and the strategy in the club was to continue to embark on projects that were sustainable and has a direct impact on the beneficiaries.

Fagbola urged the beneficiary to make good use of the facilities especially giving the structure good maintenance that it deserves.

The District Governor, District 9110, Mr Jide Akeredolu, said the month of September was set aside by the club for basic education and literacy.

“We dedicate each month to an area of service that we engage in and that is why we are commissioning these classrooms to commemorate the month. The club has identified that if you take care of the education of people it affects every aspect of the life of the nation.

“If all women in Nigeria had completed primary education, it would lead to a 66 per cent reduction in maternal death. Just by getting people educated, they will understand what they need to do when they are pregnant.

“Just by educating women alone, another statistics shows that a child born to a mother who is literate is 50 per cent more likely to survive past the age of five years because that mother will know how to take care of the child, and how to groom the child,” Akeredolu said.

The Permanent Secretary at the Lagos State Ministry of Education, Mrs Abosede Adelaja, said the gesture would go a long way to help the pupils to settle down for the new session and achieve greater results in their studies.

“In Lagos state we know we have a strong role to play in education because we give free education and this, by all means, is attracting more pupils even from other states.

“As a result of this we cannot carry the burden alone, that is why we are calling on well-meaning Nigerians, organisations, and clubs to support the state government in order to provide good and quality education to the pupils because we believe when we get education right in Lagos state, we will get it right in Nigeria,” Adelaja said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]