Men no longer dominate engineering field, says Rector
Ada Wodu, Calabar

The Rector of the Federal Polytechnic, Oko in Anambra State, Dr Francisca Nwafulugo, has said that more women are enrolling in engineering programmes in universities across the country.

Nwafulugo, a Chemical Engineer, made this known while delivering a public lecture on ‘The Female Engineer and her Career’ organised by the Calabar chapter of Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria in Calabar.

During the event, which was held at the Cross River University of Technology with members of APWEN, Nigeria Society of Engineers and students of engineering of the university in attendance, Nwafulugo said the percentage had increased from a paltry number in the 1960s to a significant number at present. He commended women for taking up the challenge.

She said the records showed that women enrolment in engineering programmes had increased by 77 per cent and by 63 per cent for male enrollment and advised women engineers to be firm and courageous irrespective of their background and field of engineering.

“The female engineers are creative in nature. We have so many ideas to bring up that will make the society a better place.

“In the time past, you hardly see women in the field of engineering. But through campaign advocacy and sensitisation of the girl-child; we have moved up to secondary schools to catch them young.

“This initiative has encouraged and motivated many of them to study engineering. Today, I am happy to be a chemical engineer and a Rector of Federal Polytechnic,” she said.

The Chairman of APWEN, Calabar Chapter, Engr. Adebisi Osim, said the association’s mission was to encourage women to achieve professional excellence as engineers and leaders.

The President of APWEN, Engr. Felicia Agubata, who was represented at the occasion by Engr. Nnenna Igwegbe, advised young engineers and engineering students to explore new skills by developing innovative software for designs as such innovations will promote the profession and create jobs for young engineers.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]