Emmanuel inaugurates Navy Military School in Akwa Ibom
Etim Ekpimah, Uyo

Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State has inaugurated the Nigerian Navy Military School at Ikot-Ntuen in Oruk Anam Local Government Area of the state.

The college, which has commenced academic activities with over 60 pupils, was built by the state government in association with the Nigeria Navy.

Speaking on Wednesday, Emmanuel said his decision to key into the opportunity to erect the NNS was due to his desire to advance education and boost security in the state.

The governor praised the Nigerian Navy for partnering the state on a naval secondary school project. He assured Nigerians of his readiness to make further sacrifices for development in the state.

Emmanuel, who also remodeled and donated another school facility to the Nigerian Army, noted, “With this one and the Army School in Efa, which will soon be commissioned, I think we have completed the cycle.

“The Police Force and Air Force have Command Secondary Schools here, which are recorded as among the best in Africa, the Nigerian Army is setting one up here. With what I am seeing today in these pupils, who are barely six weeks in the school, we have a future in this country.”

In his remark, Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ette Ekwe Ibas, thanked the governor for the long-standing relationship between the Nigerian Navy and the state government.

“The quest for the state to strengthen its security apparatus had fortunately met the yearnings of the state government to broaden the presence of the service in the state, such that it readily consented to release the premises for the establishment of the naval education cum training institution.

“Despite the fact that the process was fully consummated late last year, the opening of this school to business has been accelerated because the government of Mr. Udom Emmanuel went beyond opening the premises to complementing in the accreditation of many of the units here and provision of requisite infrastructure,” he said.

Emmanuel also urged members of the community to cooperate with the school, which he described as an asset that should be protected. “This facility is for everybody, I expect maximum cooperation from the community because this is an asset that you need to protect. Let this one be an exception for quality, cooperation and prosperity. Let it not be an exception in the negative sense,” he said.

Ibas noted that the institution was founded to offer secondary education in a naval incubatory environment.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]