Total hands over school hall to Rivers community
Chukwudi Akasike

French oil giant, Total Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited, has officially handed over an assembly hall it built to the State Primary School IV, Omuokpirikwu, Elele-Okinali, Ikwerre Local Government Area of Rivers State.

Total’s Deputy Managing Director, Port Harcourt District, Mr. Francois Le Cocq, who inaugurated the project, said the school assembly hall was nominated by the community as an MoU infrastructure project in 2015 and was completed in the last quarter of 2017.

Le Cocq said the company was particularly delighted at the successful completion of the project because it was conceived to fulfill a critical need of the community.

He said the company’s commitment to assisting its host communities was unwavering and urged the community to protect the project.

“Prior to the construction of this project, this school had no assembly hall for morning devotion and the pupils assembled in the open and subjected to the vagaries of the weather and associated risks.

“Upon completion, it has now been furnished with chairs and tables to serve the purpose of an assembly hall for the pupils. We are also aware that the hall would provide another avenue for the community to have a hall to host some of their events when the school is on recess.

“This gives us added pleasure to be in a position to provide such a meeting hall for the community and an event centre to earn revenue for the community.

“This project has also demonstrated the commitment of TEPNG and her partners, the NNPC, in honouring, respecting and ensuring the faithful implementation of partnership agreements with communities hosting our facilities and assets in their domain.”

Represented by the Manager, Community Relations, Offshore and Port Harcourt, Mr. Okechukwu Obara, LeCocq explained that the contract for the project was awarded to local contractors from the community in line with its local content policy.

“The decision of the TEPNG and her JV partners, NNPC, to allow host communities to nominate their MoU infrastructural projects is to ensure that those projects are executed by vendors nominated by the community.

“The successful execution of this project has demonstrated the dedication of Elele-Okniali contractors, and has enhanced our belief in the adoption of local content policy in the award of contracts for MoU projects.”

Also speaking, the Chairman of Ogbakor Omuokpirikwu Community, Dr. Samuel Wemedo, commended the management of Total, for their unrelenting effort in supporting the host communities through numerous projects executed by the company.

Wemedo assured the oil giant of the community’s support to enable the company to continue to operate in a peaceful atmosphere in the area, and urged the company not to relent in its effort in developing its operational host communities.

He added, “The catalogue of the projects so far executed by your company attest to your many gestures to Elele-Okinali community, which include classroom and office blocks, headmaster and corpers’ lodge in Community Secondary School, Elele, fencing and borehole at State School V, Elele-Ekeoma.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]