UNIUYO counsels freshmen on social media use
Etim Ekpimah, Uyo

The University of Uyo Women Association has advised newly admitted students of the institution on how to use the social media to boost the peace on campus.

The association asked the freshmen to learn to respond to issues and not to overreact, adding that the university had put in place the necessary infrastructure to check structural violence.

The wife of the vice-chancellor and President of UWA, Mrs. Rosalyn Essien, on Friday, warned the freshmen against using social media to spread hate speeches, blackmail and lies.

Essien urged the students to avoid anger and to avail themselves of opportunities rather than explore other people’s vulnerabilities.

She said, “A little anger is a dangerous thing. In this environment, you are expected to appeal to your reason more than your emotions.

“The social media should be used to constructively influence others towards the building of a peaceful society on campus and not to be used as a conduit for the spread of hate speeches, blackmail and lies.”

She warned students against drugs and substance abuse, immodest dressing, cultism, examination malpractices.

On dressing, she explained that dresses should be concealing, not revealing.

Essien noted that one of the reasons why students perform poorly during examinations was because they came into the examination hall either unprepared or ill-prepared due to distractions.

Describing cultism as one of such distractions, she said, “The university is an open community of students where activities and prospects are open to everyone. The same cannot be said of secret cults within and outside the university, whose activities and prospects are buried in secrecy, oath-taking, bloodshed, restiveness and other indices of social deviance.

“To belong to such a group will be, first, to undermine your personality as a free moral being created by God with inalienable rights. Second, it will be a negation of your matriculation oath, which is domiciled in your respective faculties.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]