UN envoy advises Nigeria on global education crisis
The United Nations Special Envoy, Gordon Brown, has warned of global education crisis with a “wide and persistent divide” that risks excluding 400 million girls from employment by 2030.

He said “The human faces behind these statistics are the most heartbreaking. In Nigeria, girls living in poverty bear the greatest burden – many of them drop out of school and get married early. They are left without skills for the modern economy and won’t have much hope for the future.”

Nigeria has one of the world’s largest populations of out-of-school youth in the world, and most children deprived of an education are girls.

According to a statement by the International Commission on Financing Global Education Opportunity (the Education Commission), youth activists from around recently met in New York with the United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to discuss education funding.

The Education Commission was set up in 2015 to reinvigorate, and chart a pathway for, increased investment in education.

The statement said the youths handed over a global petition with more than 1.5 million signatures to Guterres, calling on world leaders to launch a new International Finance Facility for Education that can provide an additional $10bn for global education investments for the most marginalised young people throughout the world.

The statement reads in part, “More than eight million Nigerian children, 60 per cent of them girls, are not in school and won’t have the skills they need to get jobs and build secure, stable futures. Nigeria is part of a global education crisis. If no action is taken, more than 400 million girls around the world will not be on track to have the skills needed for employment in 2030.

“Learning standards across Africa are 100 years behind today’s average high-income countries, and by 2030 the International Commission on Financing Global Education Opportunity (the Education Commission) estimates that more than half of the world’s children and young people – some 800 million youth – will not have the basic skills needed for the modern workforce.

“On current trends, it will take until after 2100 for all countries to reach the Sustainable Development Goal 4 target of ensuring that all children complete primary and secondary education, according to the commission.

“Comprising 27 high-level leaders, the commission has put forward a groundbreaking report, the Learning Generation, with a plan to finance and deliver universal, quality education for every child.

“The International Finance Facility for Education would work with countries to collectively achieve the largest education investment in history and empower the next generation to fulfill their potential.

“Young people are outraged that progress has stalled as investment has not kept pace with the need for education funding. International support for education has declined from 13 per cent of all aid 10 years ago to now just 10 per cent.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]