Technical varsity meets partners to review curriculum
Olufemi Atoyebi, Ibadan

The Technical University, Ibadan, has held a meeting with its partners to review the curriculum of the institution.

Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Ayobami Salami, said its representatives met with those of the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria, Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association and the Nigerian Society of Engineers to re-assess the curriculum towards bridging the skill deficiency gap that existed between graduates and industry.

He said the school also invited stakeholders from other institutions to be part of the meeting.

“The university seeks to address the daunting challenges of youth employment not only through conventional education but, as elaborated in the Strategy for Technical and Vocational Education and Training, also through the incorporation of entrepreneurial as well as technical and vocational education training.

“The review meeting was premised on the bold and daring ambition of Technical University to change the narrative about deficiencies in the employability and entrepreneurial skills of the majority of Nigerian graduates. The achievement of the goals requires a close collaboration between the academics and labour market stakeholders as well as strong linkages with employment agencies and employers,” the vice-chancellor said.

Salami also pointed out that organisations that were represented at the meeting were selected because of their vast experience either as regulatory authorities, professional associations or employers of labour.

“The future is not knowledge driven. It is experience driven and that is what we should focus on. Today, you have to think outside the box but in the future, you will need to think without the box. Our current curricula cannot prepare students for the job of the future. We have to change, from now, the education of the future. It is no longer competition of knowledge but of creativity, learning and independent thinking,” he added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]