IUO inaugurates governing council, advises members on innovation
Alexander Okere, Benin

The Igbinedion University, Okada, Edo State, has inaugurated its fifth governing council with a charge on the members to initiate policies aimed at raising the standard of the institution.

The council has a former Minister of Agriculture, Prof. Sheikh Abdullah, as Chairman.

Other members are Senator Ben Obi, Prof. Jerry Gana, Prof. Abubakar Sambo, Prof. Yinka Omorogbe, Prof. Abiodun Ilesanmi and Lady Mercy Ojomo.

The Chancellor of the university, Chief Gabriel Igbinedion, who spoke during the inauguration on Monday, said Nigeria was faced with harsh economic challenges that required innovative solutions.

Igbinedion, who was represented by the Deputy Chancellor and Deputy Chairman of the Board of Regents, Chief Lucky Igbinedion, noted that the institution believed that sound academic policies could instil an entrepreneurial mindset in young Nigerians in order to prepare them for the future.

He, however, said that the new council comprised experienced professionals from different fields and expressed hope that their contributions would further enhance the development of the university.

Igbinedion stated, “It is my expectation that you will develop an elaborate, implementable and strategic policy and boldly interface with all the necessary and relevant people and institutions on behalf of the university in order to make the university greater than you have met it.

“In view of the current economic situation in the country, it is my hope that this council will drive policies to rekindle the entrepreneurial initiatives of the university and strive to link the university with industry, commerce and international organisations.”

On his part, the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Eghosa Osaghae, expressed the confidence that members of the new council were conversant with educational development in the 21st century.

He also appreciated the chancellor for his support since the university was established in 1999.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]