400 million girls will be excluded from employment by 2030, UN warns
United Nations Special Envoy, Gordon Brown, has warned that an impending global education crisis with wide and persistent divide could exclude 400 million girls from employment by 2030.

He made this known in a statement by the International Commission on Financing Global Education Opportunity, Education Commission, where youth activists worldwide recently met in New York with the United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to discuss education funding.

Brown said, “The human faces behind these statistics are the most heartbreaking. In Nigeria, girls living in poverty bear the greatest burden. Many of them drop out of school and get married early. They are left without skills for the modern economy and won’t have much hope for the future.”

As it stands, Nigeria has one of the world’s largest populations of out-of-school youth in the world, and most children deprived of an education are girls.”

The statement also said youths handed over a global petition with more than 1.5 million signatures to Guterres, calling on world leaders to launch a new International Finance Facility for Education that can provide an additional $10bn for global education investments for the most marginalized young people throughout the world.

The statement in part, “More than eight million Nigerian children, 60 per cent of them girls, are not in school and won’t have the skills they need to get jobs and build secure, stable futures.

Nigeria is part of a global education crisis. If no action is taken, more than 400 million girls around the world will not be on track to have the skills needed for employment in 2030.

“Learning standards across Africa are 100 years behind today’s average high-income countries, and by 2030 the International Commission on Financing Global Education Opportunity (the Education Commission) estimates that more than half of the world’s children and young people, some 800 million youth, will not have the basic skills needed for the modern workforce.”