Hassan offers solution to examination malpractice
Tare Youdeowei

The Director and Registrar, Lagos State Examination Board, Oluwafemi Hassan, has said that the best way to check examination malpractice is to randomise examination questions and their answers in as many paper types as possible.

Hassan said this during the opening ceremony of the 2018 Screening Test for admission into Lagos State Model Junior Colleges and Upgraded Junior Secondary Schools, held at the Lagos State Examination Board, Ipaja on Wednesday.

Hassan said, “The questions are randomised into 38,000 types, while other examining bodies have just five. We have less than 12,000 candidates so we have enough types to avert malpractice.

“Just as the questions are randomised, the answers are randomised, too. Even when two candidates sit together, they cannot copy each other. We make bold to say that we have eliminated examination malpractice at this junior level of education.”

On the possible establishment of computer-based test centres that can easily be accessed by pupils across Lagos State as opposed to Ipaja being the only CBT centre, Hassan said it was the vision of the state government to set up such centres in the six education districts in Agege, Maryland, Ikoyi, Sabo-Yaba, Agboju and Oshodi areas of the state.

At the CBT, 78 pupils took the test out of the 12,000 that enrolled for the screening.

Explaining why some parents and their children might not have opted for the CBT, a parent, Roland Ajulo said; “I believe parents have their reservations about computer-based tests because of their level of education or their level of understanding. It is not every parent that knows about computers. If a parent is not computer literate, it could affect the child.

“I feel that the CBT is better than the paper-based test because there are some benefits in using the CBT. With the CBT, you can know the true ability of your child. Also, the result comes out fast so that the child can take the next step without delay.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]