Old students seek new image for CMS
Yinka Badejo

The Old Grammarians’ Society of CMS Grammar School, Lagos, has started some projects are aimed at changing the outlook of the school.

The President of the society, Mr. Adedapo Fashanu, said this on Thursday during a briefing held to announce the commencement of the school’s 159th Founder’s Day celebration.

Fashanu said the society, in accordance with the theme of the Founder’s Day event, titled Reinforcing the Heritage of Excellence, intended to project the image of the school, in line with the expectations of members of the public, by preserving the school’s monuments, pedigree and adding a greater portion to it.

Fashanu said, “The school has produced excellent scholars. It has also produced many firsts. So, we want to keep and improve on what we have achieved in the past.

“It is expected that the ripple effect of what the CMS Old Grammarians are doing for their alma mater will be to inspire other alumni associations in Nigeria to give back to their alma mater more than what they received from it, for the benefit of the country’s educational development.”

Fashanu also noted that this year’s luncheon would be held under the chairmanship of Prince Adetokunbo Kayode, among others, while the special guest of honour will be Rear Admiral Taiwo Odenina.

Also, the Principal of CMS Grammar School, Lagos, Ven. Olaoluwa Adeyemi, said the management had decided to introduce a rebate system that would favour parents with more than one child in the school.

“The Board of Governors have approved a rebate system for parents that have more than one child studying in the school. We would remove a certain percentage from the second child’s school fees so as to ease the pressure on the parents and this would start next year.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]