Midterm: Pupils lament high volume of assignments
Tare Youdeowei

A number of pupils from public and private secondary schools across the country, who are currently on midterm break, have complained of being saddled with homework and other assignments given to them by their teachers.

The pupils are unhappy that the various tasks have denied them the opportunity to relax and enjoy the break with their families and friends.

One of the pupils, Babajide, who spoke with our correspondent, refused to mention the name of his school for fear of being punished. Claiming that he had been deprived of fun, the youth said, “Maybe it is because I am in WAEC class, but my teachers want to kill me with assignments. One of the things they did is line up four tests in four subjects. This means I have to cram the drawing and labelling of the heart for Biology test. It will take up whatever time that chores at home didn’t take. This is unfair.”

Another pupil, Precious, a JSS 2 pupil of a private secondary school in the Trans Ekulu area of Enugu, capital of Enugu State, would rather spend the time browsing the Internet than doing her homework. But she is not allowed access to the Internet at home.

Unlike Babajide, Precious is lucky that her father volunteered to take care of her school assignments himself.

Also, Philip, who lives in the nation’s capital, Abuja, seems to be saddled with a bigger burden: helping his younger sibling who is in kindergarten to do his homework, which involves drawing, numbering and few questions based on logic. He said, “Most of the time I feel overburdened because I have to help him with the homework. After a hard day’s work, that is just not nice. When I get tired, the house-help or his mother steps in to help. In the long run it is like we are being given the homework.

“My brother, on the other hand, only enjoys the homework if he knows how to do it. When he doesn’t, the problem becomes mine.”

But Mrs. Esther Oga, an SS 1 to 3 teacher of English and Geography at Maryluck Comprehensive College, Benin City, Edo State, has a different view as an education expert and as a parent. “We give them more homework than usual to keep them occupied throughout the period. We understand that the midterm is for rest but, since their parents are mostly not on break too, the homework, particularly for the older class, will keep them busy while their parents are out and about. As a parent, I noticed my boy sees resting time as a time to play and rest. So, with the plenty homework he wouldn’t over rest.”

“The diversity and volume of the assignments also serves to bring to the notice of parents what their children have been up to academically. The thing is, some children can’t stay from school for long without forgetting, thus the assignments serve to refresh their memory and aid retention for when they get back to school,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]