AXA Mansard’s Annual Children’s Finance Fair for May 26
AXA Mansard Insurance Plc, a member of the AXA Group, has partnered with Money Matters with Nimi Akinkugbe to host the second edition of the Annual Children’s Finance Fair.

The event, which is targeted at children under the age of 17, their parents, teachers and guardians, is scheduled to hold on Saturday, May 26, 2018 at the Lagos Prep School, Glover Road, Ikoyi.

Speaking on the fair, the Group Head, Strategy, Planning and Marketing, AXA Mansard Group, Mr. Kola Oni, noted that the brand was delighted to associate with children to commemorate the 2018 Children’s Day event.

He said, “Findings show that many adults make devastating financial decisions that they could have avoided, if they had been introduced to the basic concepts of money early in life. As a socially responsible brand, we celebrate the Nigerian children and we see the collaboration with Nimi Akinkugbe as an opportunity to educate both the children and parents on the various ways they can plan for their finances. Our team will also be on ground to help attend to the various questions that might be bothering the participants.”

Commenting on the collaboration, the convener and wealth management consultant, Nimi Akinkugbe, said, “Financial literacy is not in the school curriculum but it is an important part of human life. Therefore, this event is a means of equipping the next generation about this aspect of living. Teaching children good money habits can help insulate them from making grievous financial mistakes. As such, other brands should emulate AXA Mansard in raising a generation that understands money matters.”

The Children’s Finance Fair, according to Oni, will feature discussions on a host of issues related to children and money matters, including teaching children about money, children’s savings products, identifying and developing children’s talents, investments for children, funding children’s education, educational insurance, life insurance, mutual funds and trust funds.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]