You can’t be ‘a staff’ of any company
Akeem Lasisi

[email protected]; 08163939335

if you ask many people where they work, each will identify one organisation or the other. One person will say, ‘I am a staff of Blue Wrap Nigeria Ltd.’ Another will say, ‘I am a staff of Longish Incorporation’; while another may say, ‘I am a staff of Ministry of Education.’ Many an employed person will say he or she is ‘a staff’ of this or that. The fact, however, is that no person can be a staff of any company or institution. The highest one can be is a member of its staff.

The issue we are addressing today, therefore, is the mistake many of us make with the word, staff. In the context it is being considered, it refers to all the people who work in a company or any kind of organisation – all of them as a body. It is a group noun that any member cannot appropriate. So, when you say you are a staff of an organisation, it is like saying you alone are all the people who work there. Is it possible?

Instead of so appropriating the word, you should say, I am a member of staff of the company or organisation.

Another expression you can use is employee or worker. If you are in the lower cadre, you can say you are a worker there. If you are a senior person, you can call yourself an official of the organisation.

This means that it is also wrong when someone says, ‘I am a junior staff of the Gbagada General Hospital.’ Are you the only junior worker there? The same applies to I am a senior staff and I am a management staff. No matter how highly placed you are in that institution, you still can’t call yourself a management staff. You can be a manager, an accountant, an auditor, managing director or even the chairman. These are specific terms with which to identify individuals – not staff.

Another term that some try to cleverly adopt is staffer: ‘I am a staffer of Ugheli Local Government Council.’ The problem with this is that it is an American English word, whereas we follow the British English pattern in Nigeria. Related to this is ‘I am a staff member’, which some tend to use as a way to escape the problems associated with the word. Yet, many experts will regard it as being casual. You should thus go with a member of staff, an employee, a worker, an official etc.

Most people who mishandle staff also mangle other collective nouns that include army, elite and clergy. They all refer to a group of people; so, a person cannot lay claim to any of them:

Is the staff of NNPC who arrived yesterday still here? (Wrong)

Is the member of staff/employee of NNPC who arrived yesterday still here? (Correct)

Yinka’s father is an army. (Wrong)

Yinka’s father is a soldier. (Correct)

Prof. Wole Soyinka is an elite in Nigeria. (Wrong)

Prof. Wole Soyinka is a member of the elite in Nigeria. (Correct)

Nigerian elites are greedy. (Wrong)

The Nigerian elite are greedy. (Correct)

The woman’s husband cannot make the meeting on Sunday because he is a clergy. (Wrong)

The woman’s husband cannot make the meeting on Sunday because he is a cleric. (Correct)

Answers to last week’s assignment

Don’t fail to ask him whether or not the men … gone.

(a) has (b) HAVE (c) is (d) had

Dogara asked if Melaye … still on a stretcher

(a) are (b) is (c) WAS (d) were

Who will … the match between Real Madrid and

Liverpool?

(a) REFEREE (b) refer (c) reffere (d) refere

Those who got all the answers right

Akbar Bello, Tunde Egbedokun, Olatoye Olawuyi, Nnamdi Chiegbo, Gift Uturu, A.B. Adejumo, Charles Ikoh, Bayo Adekoya, Shola. M, Rotimi Jaiyeoba, Dominic Udo, M.S. Adelugba, Rotimi Oyedele, Seyi Adewuyi, Olugbega Adu, Fasooto Ademola, Effiong Archibong, Akin Gandonu, Olawale Ayodeji, Samson Obanor, Wole Ogunsade, Patrick Olus, Chijioke Onuoha, Oke Gabriel, Kareem Agege, Esther Okeke, Roland Olisa, Ustadh Faisol, Idongesit Ekpamfon, Tayo Hunsinu, Akin Ajayi, Hussainat Dawuda, Japhlet B.V, Akande Adeniyi, Ayanlola Oluseyi, Akinola Arowojolu, Rasheedat Zakariyau, Olayinka Adesina, Garnvwa Nath, Kokumo Olutoyin Tayo Ajetunmobi, Adegoke Tiwalola, Ifeayinchukwu Ibekwe, Blessing Aghojare, Moshood Afolabi, Tony Igbe, Oladipo Isaac, Akinyemi Taiwo, Ayodele Joseph, Ihekwoaba Ndidi, Muogho Kingsley, Oladimeji Oluwadare, Dickson Ogala, Ini Otu, Arokoyo Sylvester, Kafar Adewale, Sangodare Ayinla, Bawalla Mustopha. Olatoye Amisu, Kolapo Ilori, Oke Olaoluwa, Akinola Ilesanmi, Tomi Joseph, Alonge Moses and Alonge Seun.

Others who also did well

Ndidi Ihekwoaba, Lawrence Okwe, Fasasi Kehinde, Adebayo Abdulmajeed, Sunday Oluwayemisi, Uthman Kayode, Omole Peter, Sunmonu Fasai, Adediran Abass, Aduragbemi Micheal, Ahmed Anibaba, Ajayi Christopher, Dania Aminat, Aawonowo Adekunle, Rotimi Adeleye, Foluke Ogunsanya, Olutomilola O.O, Adeleke Taiwo, Mikairu G. Y, Abdwakil Ashafa, Oyetola Rebecca, Ibukun Emmanuel, E.C. Porbeni, Kunbi Aina, Famuyide Funke, Muoka Johnny, Peace Pius, Oyedare Segun, Bamidele Funke, Egberongbe Bashir, Raheem Jimoh, Adetokunbo Alonge, Ibraheem Okonu, Kayode Moliki, Oladipupo Muhamed, Ajayi Oluwaranti, Bimbo Ogungbile, Ayomuiyiwa Ayoade, Unigwe Chinenye, Olaide Owomoyela, Sunday Oyesiji, Gaji Bukola, Oluwole Aransiola, Prince Agunbiade, Sulaimon Kafilat, Akinwa Orimisan, Omoba Okhumeode, Aremu Afolabi, Oludare Olufade, Sulaimon Baleeqs, David Osita, Saleh B.G, Babatunde Akinwale, Asan Kafilat. Oluwafemi Ige, E. C. Porbeni, Maria Adewunmi, Josiah Abu and Titilola Ajayi.

Homework

How many … of the company have you invited?

(a) staff (b) employees (c) staffers (d) staffs

The … daughter has gone to school.

(a) clerk (b) clergy (c) clergy’s (d) cleric’s

Walk fast. The lecture has …

(a)beginned (b) began (c) begun (d) beganned

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]