OAU, Elizade varsity sign MOU
In line with its determination to collaborate with notable institutions within and outside Nigeria to achieve its mission and vision, Elizade University, Ilara-Mokin, Ondo State, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, on staff and student exchange, training and collaborative research.

Speaking while signing the MoU, the Vice-Chancellor of Obafemi Awolowo University, Prof. Eyitope Ogunbodede, commended Elizade University for hitting the ground running.

Ogunbodede, who expressed delight at partnering with Elizade University, said that an old university like OAU could also benefit immensely from a fast growing private university of Elizade’s stature.

The vice-chancellor described Elizade University as well positioned to make meaningful contributions to the development of the country.

While expressing the hope that the relationship would be mutually beneficial, he said the partnership would enable both institutions to compare notes with a view to finding areas of complementing each other.

Also speaking, the Acting Vice-Chancellor of Elizade University, Prof. Theophilus Fadayomi, thanked the Management of the Obafemi Awolowo University for recognizing the efforts of the young university in Nigeria’s education sector.

He said that Elizade had also signed several working memoranda of understanding with other high flying universities across the globe.

Fadayomi listed some of the institutions already partnered as including the University of Computer Science and Skills, Lodz, Poland; Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, United States; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, United States and the Federal University of Technology, Akure, among others.

He said the universities would join hands to ensure that the partnership achieve the purposes for which they were formed.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]