ICPC urges students, corps members to join anti-corruption war
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission has urged members of the National Youth Service Corps and students of various tertiary institutions in the country to join the fight against corruption.

The Chief Superintendent of the ICPC, Abuja, Mr. Jimoh Sulahiman, made the call in Osogbo on Monday during a sensitisation seminar on anti-corruption organised by the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre in conjunction with Transparency International and Global Affairs Canada.

The ICPC boss, who spoke on the theme, ‘Youths, corruption and roles of everybody’, said that Nigerians, irrespective of age, must be involved in the anti-corruption war in order to make the country a better place for all.

Sulahiman said, “ All of us have roles to play in the fight against corruption. Corruption is responsible for the situation that we find ourselves in Nigeria today. As a result, undergraduates, corps members and other youths must be involved in this war.

“If you experience corruption in your school, society or organisation, you need to speak up against it. You can write us. We don’t divulge information .”

He said the ICPC was serious about fighting corruption and, to prevent it, the agency had decided to take the campaign to tertiary institutions and secondary schools and to sensitise the students and pupils on the need to be involved in the crusade.

The Programme Manager of CISLAC, Mr. Kolawole Banwo, said that since the youths, who made up about 60 per cent of Nigeria’s population, had a greater stake in the future of the country, they should be interested in tackling corruption.

Banwo stressed that the involvement of youths in the anti-corruption war would make it a sustainable one by exposing corrupt practices in the country.

He said, “If you know any TETFUND project happening in your school, make inquiries from TETFUND. Write them and ask for the cost of the contract. You can let them know the state of such contracts.

“If you begin to ask them questions, you will be preventing corruption and those who are thinking of short-changing the nation will know that they are being watched by many people.”

Also, the Director of the National Orientation Agency, Mrs. Beatrice Olasinde, urged youths and other Nigerians to get involved as whistle blowers in order to expose corruption anywhere they find themselves.

This, she said, would help in ridding the country of many corrupt persons and ensure a better future for all.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]