Turkish varsity offers scholarship to Nigerian students
Yinka Badejo

Delegates representing Uludag University in Turkey are seeking Nigerian students worthy of scholarships to further their education in Turkey.

Speaking during a scholarship examination held last Saturday in Lagos, the Vice-Rector of Uludag University, Prof. Eray Alper, described this as an opportunity for students desiring to study in a reputable foreign university.

Stressing that more scholarship examinations would be held in 21 centres across 14 countries, Alper said the university was searching for international students in order to increase the ratio of foreign students to its national students.

He said, “This is a yearly examination and it is the second time we are holding it in Lagos. Our university is government-owned and one of the most reputable universities in Turkey. Another benefit of our institution is the tuition fee, which is 90 per cent off tuition and that is very low compared to those in the UK, US, Canada and Australia.”

He stated that only candidates with high scores would be accepted for the scholarship programme.

“Last year, about 75 students sat for the exam and 40 were accepted and most of them are now schooling in Uludag University. They also learn Turkish and any Nigerian student who is able to learn Turkish to an extent would be able to go ahead with the bachelor’s degree programme in eight months,” Alper added.

On the standard of Nigeria’s education system, the Executive Director of Goodmus Learning Centre, Mr. Adekunle Badmus, said the curriculum was not dynamic enough and could not be compared to what was obtainable outside the country.

He urged the federal and state governments to continue to collaborate with foreign institutions.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]