Slum2School: Makoko school gets over 50 computers
Tare Youdeowei

A volunteer-driven developmental organisation, Slum2School, and Interswitch have donated a Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics innovation laboratory fitted with over 50 computers to Adekunle Anglican School, Makoko, Lagos.

Speaking during the handing over ceremony on Thursday, the founder of Slum2School, Otto Orondaam, said the gesture was in line with the organisation’s objective of driving quality STEM education in Nigeria and to give children in all spheres of the society access to quality education.

He said, “We at Slum2School have a vision to transform society by empowering disadvantaged children to realise their full potential. Our goal is to see how we can support the government. In the past, we donated a sickbay, an e-library and child development centres that have so far trained over 500 pupils. Now, the partnership with Interswitch is to bring innovation connected to STEM, which Interswitch has shown that they are passionate about.”

Also, explaining why a STEM innovation laboratory is important for societal growth in Nigeria, the Group Chief Product Marketing Officer of Interswitch, Cherry Eromosele, remarked, “Practicals help to deepen the understanding of the theories learnt and what you learn doing practical stays with you longer than what you read in theory. So we believe that the innovation laboratory is going to help us to shape the next generation of doctors, engineers and even the Facebook CEO type of leaders in the near future.

“Having this laboratory in a community that we consider greatly underserved, we believe, will go down in history that a corporate organisation has been motivated by the desire to drive quality education in Nigeria, to support an underserved part of socitey.

“We are doing this because we believe that there are talents everywhere. That is why we know that Innovation Labs for STEM education will help give these children access to quality education that will help develop great leaders for.”

Appreciating the donation on behalf of the school and Lagos State, Ms. Abosede Adelaja, Board Secretary, SUBEB, representing Mr. Oluremi Sokoya, Board Chairman, SUBEB declared, “We appreciate what is happening here today. This project is like planting a tree which starts as a seed and becomes a forest. This is a giant stride to take children to schools. Things like this encourage them to stay in school. This effort would go a long way to end hooliganism and reduce security issues because with education the young ones would stay away from vices.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]