270,000 Ogun pupils benefit from school feeding programme
Samuel Awoyinfa, Abeokuta

The Commissioner for Special Duties in Ogun State, Adeleke Adewolu, has said more than 270,000 pupils in 1,510 public primary schools in the state are currently benefitting from the Federal Government’s HomeGrown School feeding programme.

He disclosed this on Wednesday in Abeokuta during the flag-off of a monitoring programme in the state by the Women’s Consortium of Nigeria.

The Coordinator of WOCON, Mr. Olukunle Adeogun, said the non-governmental organisation would monitor the schools feeding programme in the state to ensure that the fund meant for it is judiciously used and that food got to the pupils.

Adewolu further said the state had engaged 2,948 food vendors for the programme, adding that since the programme started in January 2017, some parents had withdrawn their children from private schools and enrolled them in public primary schools in the state.

He said, “The programme is supported by the Ogun State Government with the provision of a dedicated office and staff, recruitment and training of vensors, daily monitoring in all the schools among others.”

The commissioner was represented by the Special Adviser to Governor Ibikunle Amosun on Information Communications Technology, Mr. Bummi Adebayo.

Adeogun, on his part, advised the Federal Government to address bottlenecks and bureaucracy facing stakeholders in the disbursement of funds and food items in the schools feeding programme.

He said the mandate of the NGO was to monitor and evaluate the programme in 40 schools across four local government areas of the state. They are Abeokuta North, Ikenne, Imeko-Afon and Odeda LGAs .

Adeogun said the NGO would ensure that the pupils earmarked for the programme are properly fed with a quality meal per day and the budget for programme judiciously utilised.

He promised to ensure that corrupt practices are tracked, reported and reduced and wastages curbed in the process of executing the programme.

The Special Adviser to the Governor on Special Projects and Programme Manager, Mrs. Tinuola Shopeju, disclosed that the programme had created 3,000 direct employment and 30,000 indirect employments till date in the state.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]