Current population of teachers not enough for schools – Minister
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, has described the population of teachers currently engaged in the education sector as grossly inadequate.

Adamu stated this during a recent teaching and learning conference organised by the African Federation of Teaching Regulatory Authorities and the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria in Abuja.

The minister said Nigeria had been projected to be among the world’s 10 most populous countries by 2050 and, therefore, there must be plans to review and sustain the education system to cope with the anticipated population.

Adamu noted that apart from teachers’ manpower development, the government must look at the curriculum development and provision of infrastructure.

He said, “The number of teachers available in our education system is grossly inadequate. We must therefore work out feasible, reliable and sustainable plans to produce, hire and retain the required number of teachers in our schools.

“Demographic data has shown that African countries will be among the most populous countries in the world in two decades. Nigeria, Congo and Ethiopia will be among the top 10 most populous countries by 2050.

“Besides the quality of the teachers, the quality and relevance of our curriculum is another instrument. If the curriculum is archaic and faulty, the products will also be so. We must develop a unified strategy for developing a living and dynamic curriculum.”

The TRCN Registrar, Prof. Josiah Ajiboye, at the event on Tuesday, said the conference was to reshape the education system in Nigeria and other participating African countries, including Ghana, Sierra Leone, Kenya and Cameroon.

“This gathering is to revitalise the teaching profession in Nigeria and other African countries. No nation can achieve economic prosperity without a sound and efficient education system,” Ajiboye added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]