When university tuition fees go up, diversity goes down
As college tuition fees continue to rise at a staggering rate, people tend to worry about how much harder it becomes for students and families to pay for college.

As researchers who focus on higher education, we found a different reason to worry.

We examined tuition fee hikes at public four-year colleges and universities over a 14-year period. We wanted to see if tuition fee increases at public colleges and universities changed the racial and ethnic makeup of students on campus.

What we found is that for every $1,000 increase in tuition fees at four-year non-selective public universities, diversity among full-time students decreased by 4.5 per cent. In other words, as tuition fees go up, diversity goes down.

The result is the nation’s colleges and universities become less reflective of the ethnic diversity of the United States as a whole.

How long does it take for tuition fees to rise by $1,000 at a given university? A $1,000 hike could happen over the course of only one or two years in some cases. Over the past decade tuition and (other) fees rose by $2,690 at public four-year institutions.

The fact that diversity drops when tuition fees rise at certain colleges and universities is a big deal. For starters, it means that more minorities might choose not to enrol in college and, therefore, forego the economic and social benefits of higher education.

But less diversity doesn’t just affect those who are priced out of higher education. It also affects students who are able to afford college.

A decade’s worth of research shows that more diversity on campus brings numerous benefits. These benefits include a richer intellectual environment that features a variety of different perspectives.

Across 1,800 empirical studies, there is a striking “consistency in the evidence regarding students’ engagement with diverse peers”. This is particularly the case in relation to students’ exposure to diversity, whether that exposure be in class, through student organisations or even informal campus encounters.

The effects of tuition fee hikes

Our study looked at both diversity and tuition fee levels at approximately 600 public four-year colleges and universities, as well as 1,000 public two-year colleges from 1998 to 2012. Diversity was measured by a standardised measure of the likelihood that two students chosen from a college or university at random will differ in terms of race or ethnicity.

Taking all four-year institutions that we examined as a whole, we found minimal effects of tuition fee hikes on racial and ethnicity diversity.

But things changed when we focused specifically on the least-selective four-year institutions. These are institutions where the average test scores of incoming students indicate that they admit a wide range of students in terms of academic preparation and achievement.

–Universityworldpress.com

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]