Insecurity: NYSC captures locations of corps members nationwide
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The National Youth Service Corps has said that it has captured the locations of its members across Nigeria as part of its efforts aimed at ensuring their security in their places of primary assignment.

The NYSC Director-General, Brig-Gen Sulaiman Kazaure, who said this in an exclusive interview with our correspondent in Abuja, said that other details concerning the corps members were captured by the various distress call centres set up for this purpose.

Kazaure, who also reviewed the successes and challenges of the NYSC, said the number of corps members posted to parts of the country with security challenges had been reduced.

He said, “The security of corps members, wherever they are serving, is a priority in the scheme. Limiting the deployment of our corps members to areas with security challenges is a deliberate measure for their safety. The management of the scheme has also created a strong security network for corps members through commitment from governments, security agencies, traditional institutions and other relevant agencies across the country.

“During our orientation course for corps members, we engage security experts and officials of security agencies to sensitise them to security issues and train them in martial arts as part of the self-defence routine. Also, we provide them with a booklet on security tips and phone numbers that give them direct access to personnel of security agencies in their places of primary assignment.

“The scheme has also established distress call centres domiciled in the NYSC Directorate headquarters, which function 24 hours. We have the details of all corps members nationwide and their locations are uploaded in the data base of the centre. If anyone of them puts in a distress call, the call will immediately flash on the computer screen as well as the details and location of that corps member.”

Kazaure said his administration in the NYSC had also begun several empowerment schemes for the corps members.

He said, “We have resuscitated the NYSC farm settlements in line with the Federal Government’s agenda to diversify the economy. Four of them are located in Bauchi, Kebbi and Oyo states, as well as Abuja. They are already operational and equipped with modern farm implements, corps lodges, storage and other facilities.

“I have decided to focus on four areas of policy direction. One is to consolidate the achievements of previous administrations and break new grounds. Two, we embarked on the motivation of workers through the enhancement of welfare provisions.

“Furthermore, there was the improvement of the welfare and security of corps members and, four, there was the expansion of skills’ acquisition and entrepreneurship development through the establishment of more skill centres and greater stakeholder involvements.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]