JABU seeks financial support for infrastructural development
Peter Dada, Akure

The Vice-Chancellor of the Joseph Ayo Babalola University, Ikeji-Arakeji, Osun State, Prof. Sola Fajana, has said that the institution is facing some financial challenges, which have made it difficult to carry out its capital projects.

He called on well-meaning Nigerians to render financial assistance to the university to enable it to achieve its next stage of development.

Fajana made the appeal at the formal launch of a N2.5bn endowment fund, held at the institution.

Describing the funding of a private university as anherculean task that demands urgent attention from stakeholders, the vice-chancellor said, “To run JABU with the traditional tripartite function, develop more infrastructure and sustain the existing ones, to pay bills, to settle our liabilities and to cover all expenses, we ask for your support , help and generous contributions.

“Our JABU is not funded by any outside sources, except the monthly subvention from the authorities of the church. More important, we need funds for capital projects to see JABU to its next stage of development.

“We need finance, manpower and volunteers. Most of all, we need your prayers and intercession to the Lord. So we rely on your assistance and generosity of the people to help to rebuild our JABU.”

In his remarks, the Visitor to the university and Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Pastor Abraham Akinosun, lamented that paucity of funds had delayed the school in achieving its goal at the end of its second phase of development.

He gave the assurance that the institution would bounce back and called for assistance for the university to enable it meet its development target.

“As part of the university’s development during this third phase, we need to complete the second phase of the proposed college of medical sciences, the second phase of the distant learning building complex, tar our roads and further beautify our campus among others, “ Akinosun said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]