LASU VC pledges fairness, transparency
The Vice-Chancellor of the Lagos State University, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, on Monday said his administration would continue to be fair, transparent and accountable to members of the university community.

According to the News Agency of Nigeria, Fagbohun said this at the Coconut Breaking Festival of the 22nd Convocation ceremony scheduled to hold on Wednesday and Thursday.

He said, “You may not get all that you want from the management but do not resort to destroying the system.

“It is natural to face challenges or step on toes but amidst our differences, do not allow yourself to be recruited as an agent of destruction.’’

The vice- chancellor lauded the LASU Alumni Association for its presence and support towards rebranding the institution.

For a university to succeed, he pointed out, the Alumni must be very strong and determined to move it forward.

Fagbohun also commended the institution’s security personnel for their efforts and determination to keep the peace on the campus.

In his remarks, President of the alumni association, Major-Gen. Cecil Esekaigbe (Retd), noted that internal strife had given way to productivity at the institution.

Esekaigbe said that gone were the days when LASU was synonymous with notorious activities and its certificates were pushed aside or unrecognised by many organisations.

He commended the vice-chancellor for rebranding the institution and giving it a new name.

“The testimony can be attested to with the rating of LASU as the Best State University by the National Universities Commission among other achievements,’’ he said.

Esekaigbe explained that the coconut breaking festival was usually celebrated during the university convocation to mark the end of an academic session and to usher in a new one.

He said the festival symbolised peace, unity and development that would open a new chapter of tranquility in LASU.

“The significance of the occasion is embedded in the mystery of how water gets into the coconut,’’ he said.

The General, however, urged staff and students of the university to embrace constructive engagement for continued peace and development at LASU.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]