NYSC builds new facilities at Osun Orientation Camp
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Coordinator of the National Youth Service Corps in Osun State, Mr. Emmanuel Attah, has said the scheme is building a new hostel facility for corps members deployed in the state to ease the accommodation problem at the NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp in Ede.

Attah said the scheme was also building a clinic at the camp for the use of corps members and residents of Ede community as a way of affecting positively the community where the orientation camp is located.

The coordinator, in an interview with our correspondent on Monday, said the foundation of the hostel was laid by the Director-General of the NYSC, Brig.-Gen. Suleiman Kazaure, who was represented by the Director, Human Resource Management. Alhaji Aburasak Salawu.

He said the DG was very impressed with the developments at the camp, saying Kazaure described it as one of the best in the country.

Attah said, “We have started building a new hostel at the NYSC Orientation Camp in Ede. This will ease the accommodation problem at the camp because of the growing number of corps members being deployed to the state.

“The foundation was laid and we will work hard to ensure that it is completed very soon so that our children coming to serve in the state will have a befitting place to accommodate them while at the camp.

“We are also building a clinic. We have a temporary clinic already but the new place we are building is a permanent place and people close to this place will also benefit from it. The clinic has been roofed and we will make sure it is completed early.”

Attah urged prospective corps members deployed in any state in the country to always disclose their health status, saying this could not prevent them from serving their father land. He said the disclosure would assist the NYSC to know how to take proper care of corps members with ailments.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]