Rector urges FG to develop education sector
Deji Lambo

The Rector, Baptist College of Theology, Lagos State, Dr. Emmanuel Oyemomi, has urged the Federal Government to establish a solid educational policy and uphold the rule of law to develop education in Nigeria.

Oyemomi said this during a briefing held to announce the forthcoming 21st anniversary of the institution, where he charged the government to shun religious prejudices and pay premium attention toward educational development in the country.

He said, “Education is the bedrock of development and, as result, the government should ensure development at all levels of education in Nigeria.”

Emphasising the impact of theological education on nation building, he added, “A nation is both a spiritual and political entity; despite all the challenges facing the nation, the spirituality of theological education enables the country to forge ahead.”

He said that theological education offers training for all leaders across the sectors of the economy, just as the impact of theological education was evident in raising exemplary leaders that influence the marketplace positively.

Oyemomi also said the management of the institution had decided to raise funds for the construction of 21 flats that would provide accommodation for the faculty and staff.

He said that the 20th graduation ceremony would take place on June 9, 2018, at the permanent site of the College in Agbowa-Ikosi, Lagos State; while a lecture in honour of one of the college’s financiers, late Dr. Gamaliel Onosode had been scheduled to hold on June 5, at Yaba Baptist Church, Lagos State.

He, however, urged the government to adequately support education, as there would be accelerated growth in the country when educational institutions were developed.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]