Don’t deny children quality education because of money –Okey-Ubabukor
The Administrator, Genesis Christian Academy, Kuje, Abuja, Christy Okey-Ubabukor, speaks on challenges facing the public school system, among other issues, in this interview with OKECHUKWU NNODIM

Nowadays, it seems that more parents are enrolling their children in private schools instead of public schools. What do you think is responsible for this?

The public schools have failed in many ways. Many of them lack teachers with sufficient knowledge of modern teaching techniques. Many parents no longer get what they expect from public schools. As a result, they are looking for the right avenue to invest in their children’s education. If you visit some public schools, you will find that some teachers are busy doing other things than teaching or just sitting around and engaging in conversation, while their pupils are busy playing. At the end of the day nothing tangible would have been done in school. This endangers the academic life of the pupils.

The truth is that in Nigeria we still have a long way to go when it comes to teaching and how it should be done, particularly when you look at it from the global perspective. Teachers in this country who are opportune to visit and work in schools that operate the international curriculum have come to realise that there is something missing in the Nigerian school system generally. Many Nigerian schools are still teacher-centred.

The situation is different in countries with considerably sound school systems. In such countries, schools are pupil-centred. So with that drive, you guide the child and make him learn on his own and not by forcing things on him without minding the consequences. This enables the child to act or speak from the experience gathered during the learning process and from his environment. As you teach the child, he will be able to relate what he has learnt in the classroom with his environment and can interpret, infer and draw conclusions.

What about the quality of the curriculum for primary and secondary schools?

The quality of our curriculum in Nigeria is very watered down. If our schools adhere strictly to the Nigerian curriculum, especially at the primary level, our children will not be able to compete internationally. Assuming you pick a child from any of the public primary schools to travel abroad, you will discover that our children cannot even scratch the quantum of what their contemporaries abroad know.

Sometimes when I go through the curriculum I ask myself where we are going as a nation. It is not just about teaching the kids in the nursery or early primary school level how to count numbers; it should go beyond that. The children should at the end of that learning week be able to identify, recognise, associate the figures with objects.

For instance, when a child of three or four years, who is expected to know how to count from one to 10, is walking in the street, he should be able to say, ‘mummy that is one car and these are two cars.’ He should be able to associate the numbers he learnt in class with what he sees in real life. These are some of the things the curriculum should help to achieve. The child should know beyond the old pattern of learning, where he only sings or recites the numbers from one to 10.

Teaching requires commitment and a passion to impact the lives of those you teach positively. So our teachers should go beyond what the curriculum says.

There are concerns about the adverse impact of Information and Communications Technology on children. In what ways can this be managed?

At Genesis Christian Academy, we have an ICT laboratory and we ensure that all our teachers are compliant with this, having known that the world is a global village and that technology is evolving daily. Because we don’t want our children to be left in the dark, we prepare them to be internationally competitive. Now, speaking about how we instill discipline considering the adverse effects of exposure to ICT, I would say that we run a faith-based academy and the Bible says you should train a child in the way he should go and when he is old, he will not depart from it.

So when a child is working with any of these gadgets and something contrary pops up, because of the morals that have been instilled in him while undergoing his ICT lessons, he knows that the thing that popped up is not for him. This is because we make them know that such things are not meant for kids. Right now the most important thing is for the child to concentrate on his education and so whenever such things appear while using the internet, he kills them immediately.

How do you manage children from abusive or broken homes?

We have made our teachers to understand that they must leave no child behind because these children are world changers for Christ. Having that at the back of our mind, we call our classrooms home-rooms and the class teachers are the parents in those rooms. So it is an avenue of learning where a child feels at home. The class teacher is expected to relate with the pupil as a parent. We have hostels and our wardens are called hostel parents because they help train the children as their own kids. So when the pupil is in the school, he feels at home. The pupil feels as if he is with his parents – people who take care of him, show him love and feel the way he feels. Beyond that, our teachers communicate with the parents of their pupils, as you must have the telephone numbers of the parents of children in your class. The truth is that we take personal interest in the children because that is our calling. So having known the moral decadence in our society, we work hard and ensure that we keep to our word, just like the slogan of the school says – World Changers for Christ.

People believe that the fees for private schools are usually high, which is one reason why many children are in public schools. How do you balance this in your academy?

Unfortunately the reverse is the case at Genesis Christian Academy and this is because it is not a profit oriented school. For us it is like a calling, having observed that some people need quality education but they can’t afford it. The motto of the school is – Let the Children Come, and so we have ensured that money should not be the reason why a child will be denied quality education. This is why for the past six years our fees have remained the same. And it might interest you to know that the first academic session of the school was tuition-free. God helped us in that first session and the fee the children now pay as tuition was set by their parents. We didn’t decide the fees, rather the parents did and after the first session of the school they started paying. The idea of establishing the school is not to make profit but to raise children that will change the world for good.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]