8-year-old pupil is Fun Tease Star of the Month
Chux Ohai

An eight-year-old female pupil of Liberty Bells School in Lekki, Lagos, Tamilore Aderibigbe , has been named as the Fun Tease Star of the Month.

Aderibigbe was recently crowned and presented with prizes in a formal ceremony held on the premises of the school by a team led by the President of Kandaval Communications, the creators and sponsors of Fun Tease, Mr. Tony Obot.

The pupil was chosen to wear the crown for the month of May, among other participants in the popular radio quiz show, after scoring a 100 per cent. To emerge Superstar of the month, a participant must answer all questions correctly. He or she must score 100 per cent to earn the title and prizes.

Currently in its fifth year, Fun Tease is an educational and entertainment programme designed for children between the ages of four and 15.

Explaining why the programme was created, Obot said, “We did a small survey and discovered that children between the ages of four and 15 are not given much attention by the Nigerian media. If you stay tuned in to a radio station for a while, you will not hear the sound of a child’s voice. The same thing happens with newspapers and magazines. So we felt that it was necessary to find a way to engage the kids.”

Obot said that this yawning gap and the need to create a child-centred programme was what eventually gave birth to Fun Tease.

Fun Tease is broadcast on radio during prime-time. In Lagos the programme is aired on Inspiration FM between 7.15am and 7.30am. It is also broadcast on Cool FM radio stations in Port Harcourt and Kano, as well as on Hot FM in Abuja, Urban Radio in Enugu and KSMC in Kaduna, among other stations. The programme runs in these stations between 7am and 7.45am when children are on their way to school, from Monday to Friday.

During the programme, children are expected to call in and answer simple questions and win various prizes. The questions are usually drawn from the contents of the syllabuses for primary and secondary school pupils, depending on the age of the child.

But, according to Obot, the overall goal of the programme is not so much the prizes to be won by the pupils as it is the need to develop their intellectual capacity and to promote the reading culture.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]