Parents withdrawing pupils from underperforming Osun public schools —Cleric
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Bishop of Osogbo Catholic Diocese, Most Rev. Akin Oyejola, has said that more parents are withdrawing their children from government-owned primary and secondary schools in Osun State and taking them to private schools.

Oyejola said the development was due to the persistent poor performances of pupils from the state in public examinations.

The cleric said this at a briefing held to usher in the 2018 Catholic Media Week in Osogbo, the state capital.

He said the administration of Governor Rauf Aregbesola founded the few mega schools in the state in order to cover up the low pupil enrolment figures in the public schools.

Oyejola also noted that although the Osun State Government had merged schools, many classrooms in the mega schools built had become vacant as a result of the mass withdrawal of pupils.

He urged the state government to toe the path of the states that had returned missionary schools to their owners, saying this would ensure proper monitoring and better performance of pupils.

The bishop said, “Many states have prudently reviewed their policies and decisions regarding the role of missions, NGOs and the private sector in driving social development especially in the areas of health and education. Most of such states eventually had to return mission schools under new partnership conditions that reflect the current situation of their communities. Tremendous improvements have been recorded in such states.

“The reverse is the case in Osun. Public educational institutions, especially the primary and secondary schools, are shrinking. To cover this up the government is establishing scanty “Mega Schools” just to put up false façade while closing down many community-based elementary schools.

“Pupils in most of the other abandoned schools either move to private or mission school or simply drop out. Currently, the educational performance record of Osun state is preserved by the performance of mission and private schools in national certificate examinations.

“The only school which competes to produce the best candidates in the O’Level certificate examinations in the nation is a Catholic Mission School namely Our Lady and St Francis College. It remains the cheapest among the schools of first class category performance in Nigeria because it is exclusively missionary.”

The cleric said that rather than supporting the non-governmental stakeholders in the education sector for a better performance, the state government had continue to fraustrate them through “purposeless initiatives” that did not indicate any interest in the common good.

“Government is using unlawful means to confiscate properties of these non-governmental stakeholders, thereby preventing them from embarking on social development initiatives which they intend for the common good. We call on the state government to save the health and education sectors through encouragement and development of sound policies of partnership with non-statestakeholders in this sector,” he said.

However, the Commissioner for Education in the state, Mr. Kola Omotunde-Young, declined to comment on the claims of the cleric when contacted on the telephone by our correspondent.

He did not answer the calls placed to his telephone and was yet to reply to the text message sent to him to get his reactions to the bishop’s comments.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]