School principals urge FG to prioritise teacher recruitment
Peter Dada, Akure

The All Nigeria Conference of Principals of Secondary Schools has called on the Federal Government to take the future of pupils of secondary schools in the country seriously by providing better education through employment of quality teachers.

The body also lamented the rate of insecurity in secondary schools across the country, stressing that it had become a matter of great concern to school administrators. It urged the government and other stakeholders to be more proactive about it.

This was contained in a communique issued at the end of the 61st Annual National Conference of ANCOPSS, held in Akure, the Ondo State capital.

The conference was themed, ‘Managing Insecurity in Public Schools: A Teachers- student Approach’.

ANCOPSS noted in the document that the law, which dealt with the recruitment and disengagement of teachers in the country, was not properly implemented. It also lamented that the development was not good for education of the younger generation of Nigerians.

The communique partly read, “The schools are institutions that strengthen societal cohesion. Attacks on them are aimed at weakening the society. The unmanaged depletion of qualified teachers in our public schools is worrisome. The extant laws on the engagement and retirement of teachers are generally not properly implemented.

“One of the main reasons for the increase in cases of examination malpractice and other vices in our schools is the low teacher-pupil ratio.

“The retirement of teachers has become a subject of political convenience rather than socio- economic needs. “

Calling for an extension of the service years of teachers, the principals also recommended that the age of teachers and their years of service should be reviewed upwardly to 65 years and 40 years, respectively.

The conference also recommended that there should be an effective insurance policy covering schools personnel and pupils against terrorism-related hazards, adding the schools should be fenced, provided with trained guards as well as modern security gadgets.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]