ICCON advocates review of Chemistry curriculum in secondary schools
Dayo Ojerinde

The Institute of Chartered Chemists of Nigeria has said that efforts are underway to review the Chemistry curriculum for Nigerian secondary schools.

This was disclosed during a Mandatory Continuing Professional Development Workshop recently held in Lagos.

The workshop was themed, ‘Entrepreneurship Chemistry: A Tool For Sustainable National Economic Growth and Development’.

In his welcome address, the Acting Registrar of the council, Mr. Umar Bello Maigari, emphasised the vision of the institute, which is to “recreate situations th will impact positively on the nation, while providing professional protection to its members.”

Maigari said, “ICCON intends to partner other stakeholders in the nation’s education industry to comprehensively review the existing Chemistry curricula in our educational institutions and develop robust curricula for the nation’s academic institutions, secondary schools inclusive.

“It is our hope that practical orientation of the proposed new curricula will not only stem the tide of our “science phobia” among the younger generation, but will also ultimately produce budding graduates of chemistry who will not only be self-reliant but also employers of labour.

The workshop also featured the induction of new members and the upgrading of deserving members to the status of Fellows.

While delivering the keynote address, Mr. Abimbolu Babatunde, a fellow of the institute, challenged Nigerian chemists to improve on their marketing and selling skills as this is the only way to save them from becoming slaves to marketers.

He said, “Expand your coast in terms of Information Technology, by then we are ready for economic development. Entrepreneurship of late has become a major topic in Nigeria as we try to fix the effect of economic downturn and unemployment that have become our unwanted visitor.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]