St Annes alumni donate e-library to school
Olufemi Atoyebi, Ibadan

The 1970-1974 set of St Anne’s School Old Girls Association has donated an e-library comprising 15 work stations to aid teaching and learning in the school.

President of the set, Olubukunola Orekoya, said the idea of the project was conceived by members of the set in 2014 to mark the set’s 40th anniversary of their graduation from the school.

Orekoya noted that members of the set decided to render assistance to the school after assessing the falling standard of education and poor state of infrastructure in schools in the country.

She said, “Apart from having to give back to an institution that made us, it is also important to help the pupils enjoy the standard of education that we were exposed to during our school days. The e-library has diverse content in all available subjects. Through this initiative, it is expected that the pupils will improve on their study and gain admission to tertiary institutions without delay.

“We call on the pupils to take advantage of this opportunity while also calling on the school management to ensure good use of the facility. It would have been completed a long time ago but our initial budget was inadequate because of rising inflation soon after the project was initiated in 2015.”

The wife of Governor Abiola Ajimobi, Florence, who was the special guest at the event, commended the efforts of the old girls, saying that the illiterates of tomorrow were not those who could not read and write but those who could not use the computer as a tool of communication.

She said, “The e-library is a great initiative which the pupils must learn to use perfectly. Computer as a tool of communication makes life and learning easy. Every aspect of human development is encapsulated in the use of computer.

“The Oyo State Government has spent N2bn on the renovation of 100 schools in the state and N3.7bn on infrastructural development of primary schools. Through the intervention of a project I initiated, many schools and thousands of pupils in the state have been offered positive life changing help. No child must be found hawking or going to farm during school hours in the state. Through the project, we have donated school uniforms to pupils and over 6000 of them have benefitted from the project.

“The management of St Anne’s School must ensure the entrenchment of reading culture among the pupils. I implore the pupils to also imbibe that culture in order to build their academic capacity as I also promise to donate 10 more computers to the facility.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]