OAU wins best S’West varsity award
Olufemi Atoyebi, Ibadan

At the maiden South-West Nigeria Education Awards event recently held at the University of Ibadan, the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, was adjudged the Most Outstanding Public University in the geo-political zone, beating UI to clinch the prize.

Also, the outstanding lecturers, polytechnic, state and private universities were announced at the event. Among the winners of the outstanding lecturers award at the event, which was organised by Excellent Media Group, were the Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture, OAU, Prof Durotoluwa Oyedele; the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Federal University of Oye-Ekiti, Prof Abayomi Fasina; and Dr Tomi Alade of the University of Lagos.

While Pastor Enoch Adeboye of The Redeemed Christian Church of God was named as one of the pillars of education in the zone, the Redeemer University, Ede in Osun State, won the Most Outstanding Private University award. The Osile of Oke-Ona Egbaland, Oba Adedapo Tejuoso, was also honoured for his contribution to education at the event.

A graduate of Medicine at the OAU, Miss Arinola Olaiya, won the Most Outstanding Student award for breaking a 30-year academic record at the institution.

The leader of the EMG, Honey Olawale, said the award was meant to address some of the vices involving lecturers and students in tertiary institutions and to raise awareness about the need for wealthy individuals in the society to contribute to the growth of education in the area.

He said, “The South-West Nigeria Education Award is all about honouring and appreciating those who have been working hard in the education sector. We have various categories of awards, in all 41 awardees were honoured for this year’s event. It is limited to the South-West.

“To choose the outstanding lecturers of the year was a huge task because we had to visit the schools and we talked to the students who voted for the winners. It took over four months to choose them.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]