Fayose inaugurates digital language laboratory
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Ado Ekiti

The Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose, has inaugurated a digital language laboratory for College of Education, Ikere-Ekiti.

The institution becomes the first college of education in Nigeria and the fourth higher institution of learning to have a digital language laboratory.

The Provost of the institution, Prof. Mojisola Oyarekua, at the event said , “With the equipment, we are capable of carrying out effective and efficient teaching and learning in the language laboratory.

“It will further enhance accreditation of our language courses by the relevant accreditation bodies,” she said.

The building was donated by the Education Trust Fund and equipped with the assistance of the state government.

Oyarekua lamented that the college was struggling to pay staff salaries and pensioners due to dwindling internally generated revenue and inadequate subvention.

“The enrolment into our NCE sandwich programme which hitherto served as a major source of IGR has reduced drastically and the government’s monthly subvention is grossly inadequate to pay staff salaries and pensioners entitlements.

“Igbo and Hausa courses in which we train teachers are not being taught in primary and secondary schools in Ekiti, thus, low enrolments into these departments.”

To shore up IGR, Oyarekua said the college had established table/sachet water factory, two gymnasia and printing press.

She, however, begged the state government for lecture halls and good roads.

Fayose, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Dr Modupe Alade, said the policies and programmes implemented by his administration had in no small measure contributed to the enviable improvement in education.

“These achievements are landmarks for other states in Nigeria to follow and emulate.

“We will continue to provide the requisite funding to strengthen both teaching and research at the college.

“Despite the shortage of funds in the state, we have not relinquished our responsibility in the release of monthly subventions to the college.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]