Awolowo family promises to assist OAU
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

A former Nigerian Ambassador to Canada, Dr. Tokunbo Awolowo-Dosumu, has said that the family of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo is ready to assist the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife to maintain its beautiful structures, environment and academic standards.

The former envoy said when the management led by the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Eyitope Ogunbodede, paid a courtesy visit to the Awolowo family in Ikenne, Ogun State.

The Public Relations Officer of the university, Mr. Abiodun Olanrewaju, in a statement made available to our correspondent in Osogbo on Monday, said the former ambassador also commended the vice-chancellor for striving to maintain the halls of residence, lecture rooms and the beautiful landscape, despite the drop in the federal allocation to the university and other higher institutions in the country.

Awolowo-Dosumu described the art of administering a university as not only stressful but also exceptionally demanding, emphasising that only people of “impeccable credentials like Ogunbodede, can be the vice-chancellor of a world class university like the OAU.”

She lauded Ogunbodede’s leadership style and urged him to do all within his power to sustain the legacies of the founding fathers of the university.

The former envoy also called on the Federal Government to commit more fund to education in the country, saying education was one of the basic responsibilities of any government.

She said, “The Federal Government should commit more money to fund university education so that this generation of Nigerians can benefit from what their grandfathers and fathers enjoyed during the free education era of Chief Obafemi Awolowo.”

The Vice-Chancellor of OAU, earlier in his speech, described Awolowo, in whose name the university was rechristened, as a legend whose legacies in all areas of life could not be erased in the history of Nigeria, Africa and the black race in general.

He further described Awolowo as a visionary leader whose selfless services impacted positively on his people, particularly the South-West region where his government established the first television station in Africa, the Liberty (now Awolowo) Stadium, the famous Cocoa House and others.

Pledging the support of his administration to the Awolowo dynasty, Ogunbodede stated that the legend had made the OAU a unique brand among other first rated universities in Africa.

The VC then appealed to the Awolowo family to partner the university on Awolowo Hall so that the legacy of the late sage would be passed down to next generations.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]