To avoid sexual harassment, work hard – Don
Friday Olokor, Jos

The Dean, Faculty of Education, University of Jos, Prof. Mary Haggai, has said that the best way for a female student to avoid sexual harassment from randy lecturers in Nigerian universities is to work hard and to dress properly on campus.

Haggai said this in an interview with our correspondent on the sidelines of a dinner organised by the Association of Christian Schools in Nigeria for stakeholders in the education sector in Jos, Plateau State.

At the event held at the Guest House of Evangelical Church Winning All in Jos, Haggai said she was never a victim of sexual harassment by lecturers at UNIJOS where she got all her three consecutive degrees.

She said, “Most lecturers in Nigerian universities who harass students sexually know the weak points of the students and they capture them through that. So the secret is hard work. Students must work hard and have confidence in themselves.

“I did my first, second and third degrees in UNIJOS and was never harassed by any lecturer. You see, the issue is even from your appearance, and the way you present yourself. A female student can be a victim of sexual harassment, depending on the way she presents herself.

“In your looks, your dressing or in your manners, you can easily tempt somebody to begin to seek some kind of attention from you. But for those of us who know Jesus (and we are ashamed to say we belong to Christ), this is our standard. Whenever we take a position, we go by it and no going back.”

Haggai also lamented the falling standard of education in Nigeria, blaming it on “too many substandard certificates in the country.”

The don said, “You see, the problem that we have is the kind of education standard in Nigeria. We are allowing too many substandard certificates into the education system. When some of us raised issues and questions about these certificates, we are told that the Federal Ministry of Education has recognized them.

“We were told to take it as an alternative to either West African Examination Council or National Examination Council that are nationally acceptable as the certicates that enable people to register for admission into the universities. But if we have another directive, that we have another examination body, that will be good.

“The policy is there, the problem is there. And then, so it is not an issue of just saying you see someone coming with a certificate in which he failed English language in WASSCE and NECO but made them in the National Board for Arabic and Islamic Studies, and then at the universities, you are asked to register him.

“One student came to my office to complain that we have not registered her because of deficiency and lack of credit in Biology. I listened to the kind of English she was speaking and told her to speak louder and louder. She repeated the same errors in the language and I said, ‘that is the credit that you have’. So you can see where we are.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]