Chrisland Schools pledges to maintain quality
Yinka Badejo

The Managing Director of Chrisland School, Mrs. Ibironke Adeyemi, has given stakeholders the assurance that the management of the school will continue to be committed to ensuring all-round education for its pupils.

Adeyemi, who spoke at a briefing organised to mark the 40th anniversary of the school in Opebi, Lagos, noted that the management had given out full scholarship awards to some students who could not afford the fees every year.

“We give scholarship awards to the best performing students and those that cannot afford the school fees. For instance, at the school in Victoria Garden City, we gave one to a child from the orphanage because he was brilliant but could not afford the fees. We also awarded full scholarship to two pupils who did very well in the scholarship examination for six years.”

“We believe that every child has a right to good education, despite economic challenges and we try our best to do that.”

She said the school had established a quality assurance board to make sure that the standards in every Chrisland School across Nigeria were of the same quality.

“We have five primary and secondary schools, a pre-degree college and a university to our credit. We started this journey in 1977 and we have tried to maintain a high standard of learning throughout our schools through the quality assurance board.

“Our mission is dedicated to the general advancement of humanity, quality education, dedicated service and total commitment. Our vision is to be at the forefront of the private education sector and nurture our children to become all they can be through all-round education,” She added.

Speaking on some of the achievements attained by the pupils in public examinations, she said, “Two of our pupils were recently given awards for excellence by the West African Examinations Council and the National Examinations Council for being the third best candidates in the country between 2015 and 2016.”

“The Ministry of Education through the Office of the Quality Assurance gave us the prestigious award as the best school with quality education in Lagos state.”

According to her, the school’s facilities for co-curricular activities were of the highest standards among schools across the country.

She said, “Our children’s co-curricular activities, such as sport, debates, leadership are mandatory. We take sport very seriously in this school and if you look around our schools, you will find some of the best facilities for sport in Lagos State.”

Stressing that the school engaged its pupils in community services and awarded them certificates for excellence, she added, “We believe in community service. Our pupils are mandated to do community service once they are in their 10th or 11th year and they are awarded certificates.”

Adeyemi also disclosed that the Chairman of Chrisland School, Dr. Winifred Awosika developed a foundation named after her where she gave awards to pupils who performed excellently in the Scrabble Competition.

“The aim of the competition is to ensure that children develop their vocabulary and they know how to spell words. The school will host a national spelling competition next month,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]