Private school owners must focus on quality education –NAPPS
The President, National Association of Proprietors of Private School, Lagos State chapter, Alhaji Wasiu Adumadeyin, has called on private school owners to focus more on quality education as a necessary step toward restructuring the education sector to meet global standards.

Adumadeyin said there was a growing need to develop the education sector in the state, using various information, communication and technology tools.

He said, “Quality in education should be the centre and focus of all proprietors across the state. Education is a complex system that requires a holistic education system with a national framework that clearly outlines the fundamental elements of quality assurance. This is crucial to national development and its impact on pupil performance and nation building is far reaching.

“Quality standard must be applied to private sector education and be backed by a comprehensive regulatory regime to meet with global standard.”

The NAPPS president said that for the Nigerian economy to thrive, the focus must be on quality education delivery. He said, ““Education is the pillar of development and determinant of technological, political and socio-economic growth and development of any nation. If private school owners embrace quality in standard, it will help pupils to deliver effectively and positively impact the society.”

Adumadeyinalso charged proprietors to make use of data and technological offerings to teach pupils.

“The world is a global village and children must be trained to reach that height. The use of data and technological offerings to the learning process must be embraced. As new trends and patterns emerge, teachers and private school owners must begin to train pupils with necessary technological gadgets and teach them the latest development on ICT,” he said.

He reiterated NAPPS’ commitment to ensure the provision of quality education and an enabling environment for teaching and learning in the state.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]