FG committed to improving pupils’ creative skills –UBEB
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Universal Basic Education Board in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, has said that the Federal Government is committed to encouraging creativity and the arts among Nigerian pupils in order to sharpen their skills and imagination.

The FCT UBEB Director, Dr Adamu Noma, who stated this during the Korea/ Nigeria drawing competition awards event, held in Abuja on Thursday, noted that pupils must be exposed to cultural and creative arts, which are tools for promoting national unity and integration.

The competition, which brought together 30 schools in the FCT, was organised by the Korean Cultural Centre of Nigeria.

The UBEB Director said the government would continue to support creativity among school pupils to promote academic excellence.

He said, “Since our pupils started engaging in drawing and painting, their academic work has greatly improved. The UBEB pledges it support in the furtherance of this creativity in every possible way.

“The drawing competition held between March and April and the programme has been very educative for our pupils. This will continue to promote bilateral relations between Nigeria and Korea as we cannot underestimate the role of mutual understanding in the economic and social development of our country.”

The KCCN Director, Han Sungrae, said the drawing competition was themed, ‘Peace and conflict resolution’.

Noting that pupils could advocate for peace in Nigeria’s troubled regions through their creative works, he said, “The competition started in 2010 and this year’s theme is Peace and conflict resolution. We recognise how important peace is and we encourage our pupils to bear out their minds on what they envision peace to be. There were 30 schools that participated in this year’s competition and 150 artworks were collected from which 20 were finally selected as winners.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]