Fuel Communications unveil Most Valuable Gift Challenge
A marketing agency, Fuel Communications Limited, is set to unveil its Most Valuable Gift Challenge in commemoration of this year’s Children’s Day event as part of the activities scheduled for the celebration of its eighth anniversary.

The company, in a statement, said the campaign seeks to increase the amount of time that parents spend with their children in order to bring about healthier families and better societies.

It said the campaign, powered on Fuel Communication’s Life Brief Initiative, in partnership with Tregeo Learn, Pathway Media, Grande Espirits Academy and Punch, will challenge parents and parents-to-be, to post online a 10-seconds video of themselves promising to spend more time with their children and tag their friends.

According to the statement, the Most Valuable Gift Challenge will set up parents and parents-to-be to fulfill their promise. By mentioning their friends it will also create a chain of awareness on the importance of the quality time that parents spend with their kids all over the world

The Managing Director of Fuel Communications, Mr. Tunji Abioye, said the agency put together the campaign because of the difficulty in getting parents to spend time with their kids. He said, “While it is important to provide for the child materially, it is equally important to spend quality time with them.”

The statement read, “To participate, make a 10-seconds video of yourself promising to spend more time with your kid(s). Post this video on Facebook, Instagram or Twitter with the tag #fuelchallenge mentioning five friends.

“The campaign will run from May 11 to May 27, 2018. The entries with the most likes, retweets and shares by May 26 will be required to send video/photo evidence of time spent with kids on May 27 for a chance to win a remarkable family dinner on May 29.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]