Codeine: FG trains 200 principals on drug abuse prevention
The Federal Ministry of Education has trained 200 school principals in Kebbi on drug abuse prevention in their schools, to stem the tide of drug abuse among students.

The Director Education Support Service Department in the ministry, Justina Ibe, said on Thursday in Birnin Kebbi during the training that the menace of drug abuse among students had become alarming.

“We all have knowledge of the implications of drug abuse on personnel, social and family life and how the use of drugs is ravaging Nigerian youth.

“I must say that there is no part of Nigeria that is free from this scourge, not even the rural communities.

“That is why all hands must be on deck to confront and reduce the menace to the barest minimum,” she said.

Ibe, who was represented by Akinmarin Abiola, said the programme was an evidence-based school drug prevention programme that emphasised comprehensive social influence approach to tobacco, alcohol and cannabis.

She stressed that the menace had been on the increase among youth and children of school age.

The director commended the United Nations Office on Drug and Crime as well as the wife of Kebbi Governor, Zainab Bagudu, for organising the training and inauguration of Community Volunteer Drug Counselors in February.

READ ALSO: 104-year-old scientist commits assisted suicide

She advised the state ministry of education, school authorities, teachers and parents to demonstrate commitment to checking the drug abuse menace.

“The ministry should also ensure that adequate resources are provided so as to have a meaningful impact on the lives of youth in the state,” she added.

In her remarks, the Permanent Secretary, state Ministry of Education, Hajiya Rafa’atu Hammani, said the state was ready to support efforts at curbing drug abuse among students and stressed that all school principals would be properly trained on prevention measures.

She added that counselors would be deployed to all schools to complement the efforts of the principals.

(NAN)