245 graduating students bag first class at UNILAG
Chux Ohai

The University of Lagos will begin its 2016/2017 convocation ceremony on Tuesday, May 8, 2018 (today).

At the event, which is scheduled to last four days, a total of 12,638 graduating students will be awarded degrees, diplomas and certificates. Out of this number, 6,816 (53.9 per cent) graduands will receive first degrees or diplomas, while 5,822 (46.1 per cent) will be awarded postgraduate degrees.

The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, recently disclosed this in a meeting with journalists in Lagos. According to him, about 245 students graduating with first degrees are in the First Class division, with the Faculty of Engineering topping the list with 62.

Also, 1,892 graduands are in the Second Class Upper division and 2,959 are in Second Class Lower division. Ogundipe added that 1,227 would be graduating with Third Class, while 493 others will be awarded Pass degrees or diplomas not classified.

Meanwhile, three students have emerged as the best graduating students of the institution for the 2016/2017 academic session. They are Jeffrey Matthew of the Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science; Bosun Roy-Layinde of the Department of Chemical and Petroleum Engineering; Faculty of Engineering and Oludare Babawale of the Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science. All three students will be graduating with a Cumulative Grade Point Average of 4.97 each.

No fewer than 123 graduating postgraduate students will be awarded Doctor of Philosophy degrees in various disciplines, while 5,190 will bag Masters degrees and 509 receive Postgraduate Diplomas.

The vice-chancellor also noted that a thesis titled ‘Phytochemical Investigation and Antiproliferative Activity of the Leaves of Markhamia tomentosa (Benth.) K. Schum. Ex Engl. (Bignoniaceae)’ and presented by a doctoral student in the Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mutiat Ibrahim, emerged the Overall Best Ph.D. Thesis for this year’s graduating students.

Activities for the convocation ceremony will begin with the opening of an exhibition at the Senate Building Car Park. This will be closely followed by the formal investiture of Ogundipe as the 12th Vice-Chancellor of the university.

The convocation lecture titled: ‘Inclusion: The Path to a New Nation’, will be delivered by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State. The Chairman of the Convocation Lecture is Prof. Anya O. Anya.

The first day of the graduating ceremony, our correspondent gathered, will feature graduating students of the Faculties of Arts, Education, Environmental Sciences, Science and Social Sciences.

On the second day, it will be the turn of students from the Faculties of Basic Medical Sciences, Clinical Sciences, Dental Sciences, Management Sciences, Engineering, Law, Pharmacy and the Distance Learning Institute. The final day of the ceremony will be for graduating students of the School of Postgraduate Studies and for the conferment of titles of Distinguished and Emeritus Professorship.

Prof. Mabel Modupe Ogunlesi, formerly of the Department of Chemistry and the former Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academics and Research) between 2007 and 2012, will be conferred as Emeritus Professor. In addition, three other academics will be honoured with Distinguished Professorships. They are Prof. Herbert Coker of the Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry; Prof. Ayodeji Olukoju of the Department of History and Strategic Studies and Prof. Taiwo Osipitan of the Department of Public Law.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]