Over 100 schools for 2018 National Schools Fair
Chux Ohai

More than 100 primary and secondary schools across the country are expected to participate in the 2018 National Schools Fair, scheduled to take place in Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt between May 26 and June 16.

A statement released by the Coordinator of the fair, Dr. Vera Kalu, said that the event was conceived as a platform to match Nigeria’s leading schools with parents and prospective pupils for the 2018/2019 academic year and beyond.

The statement also noted that the fair would provide parents with a unique opportunity to take a close look at different kinds of schools and to find the right fit for their children.

Representatives from more than 100 schools, it added, would be available to provide both on-site and take-home information to parents and guardians. The representatives will be available to answer questions, as well as provide information on the application processes, tuition fees, facilities curricular and extracurricular offerings, class size, and what makes their school unique.

The statement read in part, “The fair will take scores of pre-screened schools to four venues across the nation, including Lagos Island, Lagos Mainland, Abuja and Port-Harcourt. The event, which is expected to be attended by over 5,000 admission-ready pupils and their parents or guardians, will present prospects for educational institutions to showcase and market educational opportunities, admit prospective students, create new partnerships/alliances, and boost their school’s brand exposure.

“The tour will also showcase other educational products and services, such as educational loans, educational insurance, school management software and systems, school security systems, school supplies and related products.

“Aside from the exhibitions, the NASFAIR will feature a series of seminars and workshops aimed at updating school owners, administrators, teachers and non-teaching staff with the latest trends and body of knowledge that will assist them to better manage, administer and teach in their schools. These well tailored and expert-curated seminars will deliver topics covering school management and administration, financing, security and safety, health and psychology.

“School officials also will have the opportunity of meeting and networking with their contemporaries; engage and explore the latest information you need to help administer and grow your school!”

“The Educational Technology products and services pavilion at the fair will feature the largest display of educational software and systems in Nigeria. From educational software and hardware to security and supplies, the pavilion offers a unique platform for school owners and parents to explore the latest trends in the industry.”

Also, prospective pupils and their parents, our correspondent gathered, should expect to receive advice and information about education-related products and services – from loans to scholarships, educational insurance, learning aids and technology. This is in addition to free educational/career guidance and counseling from experts. The organisers promise discounts on fees and other offers from schools and providers.

The event will also feature a funfair, children’s play zone and a crèche.

According to the organisers, over 100 organisations have already signed up for the event.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]