Siemens donates N12m equipment to Edo schools
Alexander Okere, Benin

A development partner in the Azura-Edo independent power project, Siemens Nigeria Limited, has donated educational aids to three community primary schools in the Uhunmwonde Local Government Area of Edo State.

The beneficiaries of the gesture include Owegie Primary School in Orior-Osemwende community.

Others are Igbinakenzua Primary School and Oba Erediauwa Primary School in Ihovbor and Idunmwowina Nurho-Nisen communities, respectively.

The General Site Manager of Siemens/Azura-Edo IPP, Mr. Timo Brand, said the donation was part of the company’s corporate social responsibility to the host communities.

“I feel very proud; my personal achievement is to donate this equipment to the community schools hosting us for the project. I am happy that we have done this. If I had the chance to do more, I would do so,” Brand added.

On his part, the Project Manager (Onshore), Mr. Okechukwu Nwabuzor, explained that the educational equipment, worth about N12 million, was donated after wide consultations with the schools.

According to Nwabuzor, the gesture is also part of the firm’s policy to grow the educational capabilities of host communities.

He said, “We actually did a needs-based assessment. We went to the three schools and each school told us exactly what it needed. In one of the schools, the children (pupils) were sitting on the ground; they did not have the needed infrastructure.

“So, what we did was to check the number of pupils and the availability and we arrived at 70 chairs that could accommodate 140 pupils, seven whiteboards and accessories that could last for the next one year.

“We also took the teachers into consideration. So, we provided tables and chairs for them. Some of the teachers said that they had to use their own money to buy their chairs.

“When we heard that, we had to provide such to complement what the schools already have. The cumulative cost should be between N10 million to N12 million.”

He further stated that the intervention was part of activities to mark the successful completion of the 459 megawatt power project.

Nwabuzor added, “We would not have felt satisfied that we had completed the power project without contributing to the communities.”

Responding, the Headmistress of Oba Erediauwa Primary School, Florence Osunbor, described the donation as a timely measure that would alleviate the plight of the school.

Osunbor said, “We have a population of over 400 pupils with a block of classrooms. When you come during the school session, you will see that the pupils are on the ground.

“We are grateful for the gifts you have given to us because we believe they will enhance teaching and learning in the school.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]