DG urges corps members to teach in secondary schools
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps, Brig.-Gen. Suleiman Kazaure, has urged corps members to accept their posting to teach in secondary schools as a duty they need to perform well.

Kazaure said this while addressing corps members during his visit to the NYSC Orientation Camp in Ede, Osun State on Wednesday.

The DG, who was represented by the Director, Human Resource Management, Alhaji Abdulrasak Salawu, said corps members should strive to impact positively on the lives of the people wherever they were posted to for the one year mandatory service to their father land.

He said, “ Your are now leaders. The training they are giving you at the camp is to prepare you for leadership positions after the orientation programme. There are challenges out there but the training is to equip you to face those challenges.

“You could be posted to schools to teach pupils or you may be posted anywhere. I don’t know why most of you don’t want to teach. Why don’t you teach and impact positively the lives of those pupils?

“That may be the only opportunity you would have to do that. Teaching is a noble profession and you have opportunities to mould lives. Don’t leave where you are serving without touching lives.

“You may need to buy rubber sandals for a pupil without one even out of your allowee. That is an act of charity and it cannot go unrewarded by God because that is a wonderful charity.”

The NYSC DG also advised the corps members to be security conscious and the patient, saying their sacrifices and patience would be rewarded at last.

Salawu advised them to be security conscious within and outside the orientation camp, saying they should make their own security paramount to them.

He warned the male against engaging in Internet fraud, robbery and other vices while advising the ladies to shun prostitution and shun frivolous trips and partying.

The Coordinator of the NYSC in Osun State, Mr. Emmanuel Attah, described corps members posted to the state as the best.

He urged them to accept their postings to schools and anywhere they were posted to, saying they should see it as a service to their fatherland.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]