Proprietor donates N5m project to public school
Olufemi Atoyebi, Ibadan

The proprietor of Juniors International School, Ibadan, Mrs. Lillian Bademosi, on Thursday donated a block of six classrooms, office and a borehole to Oluyole Extension Secondary School, Ibadan as part of the activities lined up for the celebration of the 30th anniversary of JIS.

Bademosi, who is also the Chief Executive Officer of JIS, said she considered the project, which, according to her, cost N5m, as a way of giving back to the society. She called on government at all levels to help owners of private schools by reducing the multiple taxes that they pay on the schools.

Bademosi said, “I consider it a privilege to raise children for God. It does not matter whether these children are in the school you established or another school. The children in private schools are only privileged to be there, but those who are less privileged also deserve good education. At the end of the day, we are building Oyo State and Nigeria as a whole.

“The project cost more than N5m to complete. I did not go to private schools. I attended public schools in those days and they were of international standard. Something is wrong with our education today and I want government to wake up to its responsibility of providing conducive learning environment for the children.

“Government can also help private schools owners by eradicating some of the multiple taxes it charges because at the end of the day, it makes running of the schools to be expensive and it means parents will have to pay more in school fees. Government should see education as a service industry and consider school owners as partners in development. If government does not tax public schools, why demanding so much from private school owners, after all, we are all building these children for the nation?”

Bademosi noted that her school was lucky to have parents who shared her vision and who had contributed so much for the development of JIS despite the fact that they still pay school fees.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]