‘Invest your resources in primary, secondary education’
Gibson Achonu, Owerri

A Nigerian lawyer based in the United States, Mr. Callistus Anyaeto, has called on philanthropists and other well-meaning individuals in Nigeria to channel their resources towards boosting the educational development of less privileged primary and secondary school pupils in the country.

Anyaeto made this call while giving out scholarship awards to 36 pupils of the Community Primary School, Ihitte-Okwe in Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of Imo State on Thursday.

Stressing the importance of primary and secondary education in the overall development of children, he said, “Promoting growth and development of education among the less privileged intelligent pupils and students will help to boost the falling standard of education sector in Nigeria”.

Also, speaking at the event, Nze Herbert Akawi noted that Anyaeto floated the Julius Obirieze Memorial Scholarship Programme to provide cash to help less privileged children between the ages of seven and 16 to supplement their tuition fees, books and school supplies.

Akawi said the scholarship scheme for the 16 primary school pupils and 20 secondary schools pupils, which amounted to the sum of N260,000 for each beneficiary, would last five years.

He disclosed that beneficiaries were carefully selected after passing the unified examination set for the children in all the schools in the area.

He said, “We organised the scheme to accommodate the intelligent children in primary 1-6 and JS 1-3, respectively. Since charity begins at home, it was planned to first accommodate the children of the area. We also hope to expand it. It is also in line with the free education mantra of the present state government led by Governor Rochas Okorocha. It is never politically motivated.”

He urged the beneficiaries to be courageous, focused, look inwards and ensure that the aims and objectives of the scheme are not endangered.

In her reaction, the Headmistress of the school, Mrs. Adaure Mmegwa, thanked the sponsor for the gesture.

She said, “I am very happy. We need more philanthropists in the state to assist Governor Rochas Okorocha in the area of free education. I admonish the beneficiaries to take advantage of the opportunity to enhance their education.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]