Report randy lecturers, FUNAAB VC tells students
Samuel Awoyinfa, Abeokuta

The Vice-Chancellor, Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, Prof. Kolawole Salako, has asked female students of the institution to report any lecturer that demands sexual favours from them to the authorities.

Salako made this known to journalists on the sidelines of the institution’s 30th Anniversary Lecture, which was themed: A robust regulation system: An imperative for quality assurance in Nigerian universities and delivered by a former Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission, Prof. Julius Okojie.

The vice-chancellor noted that the management of the university had in the past sacked some lecturers who demanded sex from female students in exchange for marks.

Describing the act of making sexual demands from female students as an aberration, he urged the latter to report any lecturer found to be making such demands to the university authorities.

He said, “We have sacked a lot of lecturers in the past who were found guilty of demanding sex in exchange for marks. I have given the students of this institution the assurance of 100 per cent support from the authorities if they are abused. We won’t condone sex-for-marks in this university. We also frown on the act of demanding gifts in exchange for marks.”

In his lecture, Okojie called for a more efficient and effective monitoring system that would guarantee an acceptable balance between quality and access in Nigerian universities.

He also advised universities in the country to take advantage of the Nigerian Research Education Network platform to share resources with one another.

He said, “Universities in Nigeria should take advantage of the Nigerian Research Education Network to share resources with other universities. It provides cheaper bandwidth, telephony, video conferencing and improves the prospect of teaching larger class sizes. It also assisted Nigeria in securing 10 out of 22 Africa Centres of Excellence in the Central and West African sub-region.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]