Foundation donates CBT centre to PSIN
Friday Olokor, Jos

The African Capacity Building Foundation, an affiliate of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, has donated an 80-seater Computer Based Test centre to the Public Service Institute of Nigeria.

The gesture is aimed at assisting the Federal Government, through the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, to inculcate transparency in the conduct of examination for public officers.

A statement issued on Monday by the Head of Media in PSIN, Ekaette Umoh, quoted the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Winfred Oyo-Ita, who spoke on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari, as expressing appreciation to the BMGF for its interest in the nation’s public service.

Oyo-Ita said the donation would go a long way in building the capacity of the PSIN and actualising the strategic plan of her office.

She said her office was desirous of ensuring that all public officers imbibe efficient, productive, incorruptible and citizens-centred culture skills.

While commissioning the centre, she expressed optimism that the partnership would continue to a level that PSIN would become one of the foremost capacity building institutes for public servants in Africa.”

The Administrator and Chief Executive Officer of PSIN, Dr. Ganiyu Obatoyinbo, said the 80-seater edifice would, among other things, shorten the time frame used in conducting CBT centres for public officers.

He said, “With this facility, about 200 candidates can now sit for computer based test at once in the institute. This will lead to more transparency and enhanced integrity of our examination process. The ACBF-CBT centre will also promote e-governance through ICT training. The ACBF is helping to reposition the institute to achieve the mandate bestowed on it by building capacity.”

Obatoyinbo called on public servants and institutions to make utmost use of the centre to ensure adequate computer training and transparency in their recruitment and promotion exercises.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]