‘Indigenous languages can’t stop children from becoming successful’
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

A university teacher and writer, Prof. Oladejo Afolayan, and the Commissioner for Education in Osun State, Mr. Kola Omotunde-Young, have called on parents and teachers to communicate with their children in indigenous Nigerian languages.

Both men noted that, contrary to general belief, speaking indigenous languages to children would not stop them from becoming successful professionals.

Addressing students at the third book fair organised by Joyous Innovations Sixty Seven, held at the Osogbo Government High School, Osogbo on Wednesday, Afolayan and Omotunde-Young said that most of the highly successful persons around the world first learnt to speak their mother-tongues.

Afolayan urged parents to start speaking their first languages to their children, saying this would make them to start learning very fast.

Describing the fear that communication in indigenous languages could affect the cognitive development of the child as unfounded, he argued that it would help pupils to learn fast.

He said, “Children learn better in their mother-tongue and this is a fact worldwide. It is wrong to think that speaking Yoruba to your children at home will make them poor students.

“What many parents speak to their children at home is not even English but a bastardised language. This is the reason some students fail English language. If we develop our indigenous languages adequately, we will have no problem. Our children can become doctors, engineers, lawyers and anything they want to be. Speaking Yoruba to them cannot stop them from becoming successful in life.

“I like Lagos State because it adopted Yoruba. Also, the Igbo and Hausa Speak their languages to their children. Our children will go higher if we adopt and speak Yoruba to them. My parents taught me In Yoruba and I developed my writing because of my background. “

Also, Omotunde-Young urged the pupils to make conscious efforts toward learning Yoruba and using it to communicate in their homes and at school.

He also said the state was making efforts to promote the speaking of Yoruba among its pupils.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]