Firms donate science, teaching aids to Imo schools
Gibson Achonu, Owerri

Three firms, Oil and Gas Nigeria Limited, Star Ultra Deep Petroleum Limited and Chevron, on Thursday donated some educational, books and teaching aids to five schools in Imo State.

Governor Rochas Okorocha, represented by his Chief of Staff, Uche Nwosu, received the items, which included refrigerators, books, science equipment and desktop sets, among others.

Speaking on the occasion, the Chairman of Oil and Gas Nigeria Limited, Chief Reggie Uduhiri, disclosed that the joint venture had trained about 100 teachers selected from various schools across the local government areas in the state on modern teaching skills and methodology, Information Technology, Classroom Management and Ethics.

According to Uduhiri, the company, in partnership with other stakeholders, is working with the Imo State Government and the Federal Ministry of Education, to move the standards of education to greater heights in the country, noting that the company was committed to ensuring that Nigerians acquired the necessary educational skills.

He said, ‘’We are working with our partners to assist the government of Imo State and the Federal Ministry of Education to move the standard of education to an enviable level. The company is committed to ensuring Nigerians acquired the necessary educational skills for better life.’’

Uduhiri urged the beneficiaries of the gesture to take good advantage of the opportunities offered.

In his speech, the Director of Star Ultra Deep Petroleum Limited, Kennedy Richard, said that in addition to sustainable programmes in education, a total of 1,432 natives of Imo State had benefited from similar projects, adding that between 2015 and 2017, 165 students benefited from the NNPC/CNL joint venture scholarship programmes.

Okorocha urged the pupils, teachers and stakeholders in the education sector in the state to secure the items donated and those the state government provided.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]