Akeredolu calls for restructuring of education sector
Peter Dada, Akure

Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has said that the best way to begin the restructuring of Nigeria is to restructure the education sector.

Speaking during the Fourth Distinguished Guest Lecture of the University of Medical Sciences, Ondo on Monday, Akeredolu noted that if the education sector was restructured, all other sectors would automatically be restructured.

The governor, who commended the management of the university for maintaining excellence in the medical studies, said there was a need for everyone to contribute to the development of education in Nigeria.

He said, “Education must not be left for government alone; everybody must contribute. Everybody is clamouring for the restructuring of this country, but I think the restructuring must start from the education sector.

“If we get it right in the education sector, every other thing will follow. So we must be clamouring for the restructuring to start from the education sector.”

Also, Governor Nasir el Rufai of Kaduna State, who was the guest lecturer, said the issue of education should not be politicised. He stressed that his administration had embarked on a reform of the sector so as to make public school education conducive for every pupil in the state.

El-Rufai said that he decided to focus on primary and secondary education in Kaduna because they were basic and compulsory for every child in the state.

“I focused on the primary and secondary education because they are the foundation. Also I think it is through primary and secondary education that children would have equal opportunity.

“We are looking at a generation that will remember that some people did this for them. We are not looking at the next election, but we are looking at the next generation.”

In his remarks, the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Friday Okonofua, said the lecture would stimulate the thinking of the students of the varsity about the leadership roles and how positive leadership engagement could help “the development of incisive reforms for social development in this country.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]