What makes a real international university ranking?
Around the world university rectors, presidents and managers are bracing themselves for the next wave of classifications called, rightly or wrongly, ‘rankings’. But before the new ranking wave rolls in, we should ask what makes a real international university ranking?

The first international university ranking was produced by Asiaweek in 1999 and 2000, to be followed in 2003 by the Shanghai Jiao Tong University’s Academic Ranking of World Universities . The Webometrics Ranking and the Times Higher Education – Quacquarelli Symonds World University Rankings – both started in 2004. Since then, international university rankings have proliferated.

The IREG Observatory on Academic Ranking and Excellence, whose mission is ‘to act as a repository of information about rankings and to keep track of the constantly evolving and diverse world of rankings’, commissioned the Perspektywy Education Foundation (Poland) to prepare a comprehensive IREG Inventory on International Rankings that would serve stakeholders such as students, faculty, administrators and policy-makers.

Perspektywy collected the addresses of all potential international (global or regional) rankings and then sent questionnaires asking the authors of each ranking to provide detailed information on its methodology, scope, mode of publication and other features. If there was no response, publicly available information was used. The problem then arose of defining which rankings should be included in the inventory.

The term ‘ranking’ is often overused. A list of universities or colleges based on a single indicator should not be considered a ranking. A classification requires a set of at least two indicators with assigned weights unless users are allowed to determine the weights. The choice of indicators and their weighting reflects the concept of institutional quality used by the compilers of the ranking.

What rankings are included in the IREG Inventory?

In defining what rankings should be in the IREG Inventory, the authors of the project decided that the ranking should

Include

two or more indicators or metrics, at least one indicator or metric that measures or is related to academic quality, it should have been published at least twice, published since 2014, have a transparent methodology published in English and present results which are accessible on the internet.

In recent years some ranking organisations have published specialised rankings of new universities, graduate employability or reputation. Such rankings are wholly or partly based on the data extracted from a global ranking and are classified in the inventory as ‘sub-rankings’.

The inventory does not include as independent the regional rankings generated by application of a regional filter to a global ranking. The regional rankings that are included in the inventory either use recalibrated indicators of the global rankings or combine those indicators with new indicators.

–universityworldnews.com