‘Ekiti performances in WAEC, NECO not reflecting in admission’
Kamarudeen Ogundele, Ado Ekiti

A former Head of Service in Ekiti State, Mr. Olufemi Adewumi, has urged education administrators in the state to ensure the replication of successes achieved in the Senior Secondary Certificate Examination in the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination.

He said data suggested that many of the pupils in Ekiti secondary schools were finding it difficult to secure admission into universities and other tertiary institutions.

Adewumi spoke at the third Aramoko Socio-Economic Summit held on Saturday in Aramoko Ekiti as the chairman of the occasion. At the event was the Alara of Aramoko, Oba Abdul-Azeez Adeyemi.

Ekiti has been rated first for two years consecutively in the National Examination Council examination.

But Adewumi said his expectation in education had not been met.

He said, “Some of us are critical of certain things. If in the WASSCE or NECO you are rated as top three and yet the admission to universities does not reflect that, then there is something wrong.

“Whatever has to be achieved must be a sustainable one; one that does not stop at either low or middle level; one that will help those said to have done well at the school certificate level that they can gain admission to universities to study all courses.

“The competition all over the world is such that if anybody is deceiving himself as a local champion, he has no place in the competitive world. Whatever we are doing must prepare our students to compete globally.”

The Convener, Mr. Akin Oluwadare Jnr., said the summit was in response to the low level of social and educational awareness in the town.

“What this platform provides is an avenue for expression and support for all the lofty objectives of lovers of Aramoko,” he added.

Adewumi advised the group to focus on an area, especially education instead of a large area of interest.

“He who does too much may not have successes in large areas. They should prioritise education which they have started and we are already seeing results. That area should be concentrated upon before they decide to veer into other aspects,” he said.

The President of Aramoko Development Association, Dr. Dipo Aladeloye, urged Aramoko indigenes both home and abroad to attract investment into the town.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]