NYSC members urged to be hardworking
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

The National Youth Service Corps has urged corps members currently mobilised for the one year mandatory service to be tolerant, hardworking and contribute to the development of the country.

The Coordinator of the NYSC in Osun State, Mr. Emmanuel Attah, said this in Ede on Monday at the swearing in of the 2018 Batch A corps members deployed in Osun State.

Stressing that service to their fatherland demanded humility and dedication, he urged the youths to endure the physical and psychological training which they would be exposed to on camp.

He said, “As a highly skilled segment of the youthful population of our country from different geographical, social and religious backgrounds, your ability to tolerate and live with one another peacefully will always remain a reliable barometer to measure the pressure of our national cohesion. You must not let our nation down.”

Attah said a total number of 2,411 youths were deployed to the state as part of the 2018 Batch A which comprises 1,188 males and 1,223 females. He lauded the corps members, saying they had been responding well to training.

He warned that the scheme would not tolerate social vices from the corps members while urging them to strive to contribute their own quotas to make their communities and the nation in general better.

The Osun State Governor, Mr. Rauf Aregbesola, said the NYSC had been contributing in no small measure to the development and the unity of Nigeria.

He said, “Over the years, these founding objectives have been vigorously and successfully implemented. Thousands of youths mobilised under the scheme have contributed immensely to the growth and development of our country.

“Besides promoting national unity and integration, the NYSC scheme has also become a viable tool for the implementation of critical national development programmes.

“I urge you to maintain discipline and decorum in the camp and participate vigorously in all the activities of the orientation programe and throughout your service year.

“You should be the best the country will be proud of and see yourselves as agents of our change mantra. You must shun corruption and other vices and instead embrace integrity and humility. To be great leaders tomorrow, you must lay a solid foundation today.”

The Osun State Commissioner for Empowerment and Youth Engagement, Mrs. Folake Adegboyega, called on the corps members to pay attention to the skill acquisition trainings which they would be exposed to during the orientation Programme.

He said this would enable them to be self reliant especially before getting employment after their service year.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]