Call for rigorous journalism as NIJ graduates 1,341
Yinka Badejo

A sense of fulfilment and excitement pervaded the Nigerian Institute of Journalism, Ogba, Lagos on Friday when it held its fifth convocation.

It officially graduated five sets (2013-2018) at the Lateef Jakande House, Ogba, venue of the event.

In all, 1,341 people were variously awarded the National Diploma, Higher National Diploma, Postgraduate Diploma, while other dignitaries got Fellowship of the Nigerian Institute of Journalism.

Special prizes were also presented to graduates who distinguished themselves in their respective programmes.

In the pursuit of rigorous journalism, the Chairman of the Governing Council of the NIJ, Mallam Ismaila Isa, called for the uplift of ethics and thorough professionalism.

Ismaila, who was represented by a co-publisher of Newswatch, Mr. Ray Ekpu, said although new journalism was on the rise, it lacked the ideals of the print media.

He added, “Journalism is a much more rigorous affair, with layers of reporters, supervisors and editors who are tutored in both the canons of professional practice and ethical imperatives.”

The chairman urged the students to stay on the side of truth and help to represent the gold standard in serious journalism.

He said, “There is a lot of fake news and falsehood in the social media. There is also a lot of useful information. Stay on the side of the truth, of facts and of figures correctly verified. Help to pursue the holy grail of truth telling and do not circulate falsehood because it can hurt your career and your country.”

On the effects of globalisation in the industry, Ismaila noted that, at present, the world was different from what it was 20 years ago, thanks to the gift of new technology and globalisation.

“These two factors have also affected our industry immeasurably. Our instruments of work, our reach and our skill sets are dramatically different today. Whether you are in broadcasting, print journalism, public relations, advertising or marketing communications, you must realise that there is a sea of change in the way our industry is arranged which has also affected the way we practise today. You must realise that the mainstream media have the social media to compete with and these social media have changed the communications dynamics.”

Advising the students on addressing the challenges facing journalism and the nation, the NIJ Provost, Mr. Gbemiga Ogunleye, said, “I urge you to go into the world and make the necessary impact. I don’t need to tell you that the media are in crisis. There must be a paradigm shift in our profession. You are young and energetic. So, think of creative ways of addressing the challenges of our profession and the nation.”

In another development, the school honoured renowned businessman, Chief Kensington Adebutu; and Publisher of Premium Times, Mr. Dapo Olorunyomi.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]