FG inducts 700 teachers for Unity schools
Olaleye Aluko, Abuja

The Federal Ministry of Education has inducted 700 newly recruited teachers for Unity Schools nationwide.

The Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Sonny Echono, stated this during an induction course for the teachers, which was conducted by the National Institute for Educational Planning and Administration.

Echono said the aim of the course was to familiarise the teachers with the ethics and norms of their chosen profession. He warned that any teacher caught in misconduct within the two-year probation would be fired.

“Let me sound a note of caution that within your probation period of two years, any reported case of misconduct about anyone of you will lead to the immediate termination of your appointments in line with the public service rules. I like to remind you to be on your best conduct so as to become permanent workers,” he said.

Also, the Director-General of NIEPA, Prof. Lilian Salami, said the teachers would be trained in two batches of 400 and 300 participants on classroom management, communication skills and related areas.

The DG said, “Our objectives are, we want to empower these education officers in the areas of professional development and capacity building, where whatever they gain will cascade down to classroom management and communication skills.

“The training is not a one-time thing. We expect to give them on-the-job trainings and come back to assess them. Once we are done with this, we will begin to localise the trainings to their areas of specialisation and of needs.

“We have been collaborating with the ministry in several areas. Apart from the education officers, we have trained directors of education in leadership and communication. We assume that other newly deployed directors will call upon us to come and sharpen their skills.”

The NIEPA Head of Training, James Fadokun, said the induction course was the third phase, noting that Phase one was done in 2016 and Phase two early in 2018.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]