Kaduna to recruit additional 13,665 primary school teachers
Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna

Kaduna State Commissioner for Education Science and Technology, Ja’afaru Sani, has said that the state government will commence the recruitment of 13,665 teachers for its primary schools soon.

Sani, while addressing a news conference in Kaduna, also said that efforts were on to adopt technology-based teaching in its public/primary and secondary schools to enhance quality teaching and learning.

To achieve technology-based teaching, the commissioner noted, the state had started distributing tablets and computers to teachers and pupils, as well as installing smart boards in schools.

Sani noted that the state Universal Basic Education Board had already employed new teaching personnel to fill 11,335 out of the 25,000 vacant positions that it earlier advertised.

He explained that about 40,000 applicants sat for the recruitment examination, out of which 27,639 were invited for oral interview, adding that 15,897 of the applicants were successful but subjected to further screening to fish out those allegedly smuggled into the list.

Sani said the applications for the recruitment of the remaining balance of 13,665 were still being received and the process would commence once approval is granted by Governor Nasir El-rufai.

The commissioner said, “At the end of the exercise, 4,562 incompetent ones, believed to have found their way into the final list illegally, were fished out, leaving 11,335 competent ones.

“The 11,335 newly recruited teachers, predominantly degree holders and including a few with masters degrees, have already been deployed to over 4000 primary schools in the state based on needs and they have all reported.

“This was after they have undergone vigorous induction training along with the remaining old teachers to equip them with modern teaching techniques and effective classroom management.

“We are hoping that between now and the end of May, we would be concluding the recruitment process of the remaining balance of 13,665 teachers.

“This is primarily to equip our students with the information and communication technology skills to enable them to compete favourably in the current technology, driven world.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]