Ajasin varsity: NANS reject Akeredolu’s fees reduction
PETER DADA with agency reports

The National Association of Nigerian Students on Saturday rejected the 50 per cent tuition fee slash on returning students of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko, by the Ondo State Government.

The National Public Relations Officer of the association, Mr. Idowu Odebunmi, told the News Agency of Nigeria on Saturday that the fee reduction was not enough to address the students’ concerns.

The state governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, met with the AAUA representatives on Thursday after a protest against the 500 per cent increase in their tuition and reduced the fees by 50 per cent.

The students kicked against the change which saw their tuition fees increased from between N25,000 and N35,000 to between N120,000 and N200,000 depending on the faculty.

Odebunmi observed that with the new arrangement by the state government, the students would still have to pay 200 per cent increase in their tuition fees.

He noted that the current economic situation of Nigeria did not favour any increment in tuition fees.

He urged the state government to consider the plights of the students and their parents by announcing pocket-friendly fees.

Meanwhile, 30 students of the Achievers University, Owo, Ondo State, graduated with first class degrees during the convocation ceremony of the institution held on Saturday.

The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Tunji Ibiyemi, disclosed this on Saturday at the seventh convocation and 10th anniversary ceremonies of the institution.

He said the school aimed at being the best university in Nigeria, Africa, and one of the best in the world in the nearest future.

Ibiyemi added that 363 students graduated from the university and expressed confidence that the institution would continue to produce the best graduates for the country’s manpower needs.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]