‘Blame poor teachers’ welfare for Osun pupils’ performance’
Femi Makinde, Osogbo

A former Speaker of the Osun State House of Assembly, Mr. Adejare Bello, has blamed the unimpressive performance of pupils of Osun origin in external exterminations on the poor welfare package of teachers in the state.

Bello said this in an interview with journalists on Wednesday after picking his letter of intent to contest the governorship election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party.

The Speaker said the situation was different when Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola was the governor of the state between 2003 and 2010.

He said the state should not expect teachers, whom he described as hungry and unable to meet certain important needs in their homes, to give their best while discharging their duties.

He said, “Teachers are very important in any society and they should be well taken care of by any administration that wants to make the education sector the best. We all know that a nation cannot develop beyond the level of its educational advancement

“We may not need the mega schools the governor built. The schools in Ejigbo and Ede, as well as other towns, were enough to accommodate the pupils before the building of mega schools. Now you go to these schools and you will see that many classrooms are not occupied. That means we have built the schools that we don’t need. They wasted money on them.

“We have not employed new teachers to replace those that retired since 2012 and there are more classrooms than pupils. Good performance is not determined by good classrooms alone, there are other things that must be in place.

“The half salary is another issue. You cannot expect, for example, a teacher whose salary is N100,000 and you are paying him N50,000, to give his best. It is not possible. Teachers’ salaries must be paid promptly and other benefits must accrue to them to encourage them to perform better.”

He said Chief Bisi Akande was voted out by the people of the state because he sacked teachers and other civil servants in large number. He said there was a compound in Ede, his hometown where 10 couples were affected by the mass retrenchment by the Bisi Akande administration.

Bello urged parents to pay more attention to the education of their children. He said they should supervise their children and make sure that they devote more time to studying rather than wasting their time on unproductive things.

He said, “The public schools in the state have been turned into something else. Pupils are attacking their teachers and all manner of absurd things are happening. You can’t expect something different because the teachers are not happy. So there is little they can do.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]