Talent show as Mikano celebrates with visually impaired children
As part of the activities lined up to mark its 25th anniversary, Mikano International Limited has paid a visit to Bethesda Home for the Blind, a vocational training centre in Lagos.

Led by the company’s Head of Marketing, Misaa Hermes, the team that visited the home included its other top officials such as Wura Akingbade and Carol Chukwura.

They were received by the Proprietress of Bethesda, Mrs. Chioma Ohakwe, who expressed appreciation to the company which donated various items to the trainees.

In return, the visually impaired students staged a musical show to entertain their guests.

The atmosphere was one of excitement, celebration and joy as the staff of Mikano joined them in singing and dancing, showcasing some Nigerian cultural steps.

The learners also exhibited some of their craftwork such as bags, tablemats made with beads and cultural ornaments.

Hermes stated that the company was happy to celebrate its 25th anniversary with the people of Bethesda Home, noting that doing such charitable work was a part of their Corporate Social Responsibility and a way to give back to the Nigerian society that had helped it grow into a force to be reckoned with.

“We always believe that we should give back to Nigerians. As part of our CSR, it is a crucial objective of the development of the communities within which we operate. This goal in turn expresses our mission to improve the quality of lives of the less-privileged.

“We always believe that the light is from our heart. That is why we want our message to start from this school. We are going to continue with our visit to different NGOs. Also, we have plans to reach out to the youths and communities all over Nigeria. A thread that runs through our work is to ensure that we become the reference point for the accomplishment of successful social initiatives that will pave the way for other organisations in the area of CSR.”

Ohakwe thanked the team for the gesture. She said, “By visiting the school, you have kept smiles on the students’ faces because they are always elated whenever they have visitors.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]