Rotary secures three schools with perimeter fence
The Rotary Club of Maryland has constructed a perimeter fence to secure three public primary schools in Lagos State.

The schools are Community Primary School, Ewutuntun; State Primary School, Mafoluku; and State Primary School, Ewutuntun. The schools are located in the Oshodi-Isolo Local Government Area of Lagos State

The construction of the fence is in fulfilment of Rotary Club of Maryland’s promise to the management of the schools.

The District Governor, Rotary International, District 9110, which comprises Lagos and Ogun States, Dr. Wale Ogunbadejo, during the inauguration of the perimeter fence, said the purpose of carrying out the project was to secure the life of the pupils and create a conducive learning environment.

“When children come to school and begin to see obscene objects like condoms, we believe it is not ideal at this stage of their lives. We have therefore come to contribute our own quota by putting up this fence as one of the six areas of focus of Rotary International,” Ogunbadejo said.

The President of the club, George Ikpekhia, recalled that hoodlums had taken advantage of the lack of perimeter fencing of the school to perpetuate sexual immoralities after the children must have closed from school.

“One cannot imagine children less than the age of 13 coming to school and seeing those kind of things which can pollute their minds at their tender age. What we have therefore done is to mitigate hardship that had been coming along with learning in this type of environment and we hope the school and the local government would see to the maintenance of the fence,” Ikpekhia said.

He disclosed that the club had provided water and toilets for the school previously.

The Headmistress, State Primary School, Ewutuntun, Mrs. Sherifat Ojugbele, who spoke on behalf of the three headmistresses, said they were happy that the club came to fulfil its promise.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]