31 students bag first class at Achievers University
Peter Dada, Akure

No fewer than 31 students of the Achievers University, Owo, Ondo State, got first class out of the 340 students that graduated from the institution.

This was disclosed by the Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Tunji Ibiyemi, at the seventh convocation and 10th anniversary of the institution, held on the campus on Saturday.

The don said the school was aiming at being the best university in Nigeria and in Africa and one of the best in the world in the nearest future, adding that the university would not relent in its efforts to produce the best graduates for the country.

He said, “A total of 340 graduating students of the 2016/ 2017 set drawn from 12 academic programmes from two colleges are being represented today for the award of Bachelor of Science degree .”

The Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council of the university, Dr. Bode Ayorinde, reiterated the resolve of the institution to pursue its vision of becoming the best university in Africa and one of the best in the world.

Ayorinde, who is also a member of the House of Representatives, said the institution had what it takes in terms of integrity of council and management, strength of character and strong partnership with parents in driving the university.

He said,“The council will leave no stone unturned in funding the postgraduate college and research. We do not plan to build Achievers University in a day but very soon this institution will graduate to become the best in Nigeria, the best in Africa and one of the best in the world.”

In his remarks, the Ondo State Governor, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, imlored the graduating students not wait for the scarce white collar job but to learn how to be self-reliant.

“Entrepreneurship is the key, government cannot give all of you job, you must know what you can do for yourselves and I want you to become vanguard of nation builders,” Akeredolu said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]