UNILAG establishes engineering board
Yinka Badejo

The University of Lagos has established the Faculty of Engineering Industry Advisory Board to promote what it called ‘Industry-in-Faculty and Faculty-in-Industry’ relationship.

The Dean, Faculty of Engineering, Prof. Funso Falade, made this known at the first Annual General Meeting and second Alumni Lecture of the UNILAG Faculty of Engineering Alumni Association on Saturday.

Falade said, “It is a deliberate effort to bring experts into the faculty to improve the development of the faculty by helping to shape the curricula of engineering disciplines towards the needs of the industry in order to enhance the employability of our graduates and increase external involvement in research, with a view to promoting the faculty’s research excellence.”

The Faculty of Engineering also unveiled its maiden edition of the newsletter aimed at disseminating information about the faculty.

Falade stated, “It is an important communication tool that could be used to disseminate the past, present and future information about the faculty and its graduates to all and sundry.”

The Chairman on the occasion, Mr. Oye Eribake, an Engineer, in his opening speech, added, “We have a mandate to produce graduates who will be well qualified to operate and develop the public services, to initiate and carry out engineering designs, to engage in industrial management and to pursue development and research.”

The Vice-Chancellor of UNILAG, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, said during the event that students of the varsity needed to be exposed to refining process as an institution that produced graduates in Chemical Engineering in order to boost the nation’s refinery capacity.

Addressing the audience, he said a committee would be set up to understudy the refining process from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria.

Ogundipe said, “At some universities in Texas, when their students graduate, because they have refineries in their universities they do not need to do certain courses when it comes to professional courses. Engineering has left that level of just setting down and computing.

“We want to produce students that turn ideas into realities. It is about producing entrepreneurial skills and developing the skills in the life our students. We need to develop our students, all of them have skills that are unique to them, and the skills can help them set up their own businesses in future.

“Most of our students can develop application while some are with different skills. We are going to look for a way to harvest their skills and we need the support of our alumni to achieve this.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]