Govt must support private schools —Phillips
Eniola Akinkuotu

The Executive Director of Vine Crest College, Mrs. Folasade Phillips, has called on government at all levels to support private schools the way other private institutions in the agricultural and manufacturing sectors are being assisted.

Phillips said this at the formal opening and dedication of Vine Crest College, Iperu-Remo, Ogun State.

She said the education sector was a sensitive one as it was responsible for building future leaders and thus should not be neglected.

The director said, “The government should encourage private school owners who have invested and are still investing in quality schools. The government should also see them as one of the drivers of the economy like those in the manufacturing sector and others as they are also involved in capacity building, which is the major key for economic development.”

Phillips, who has served as a Principal of Atlantic Hall and Trinity International College, Ofada, said the new school was established not for the aim of profit making but a way of giving back to society.

She added, “A lot of investments have gone into the school and if I was driven by profit, I would not have ventured into it but I want to leave a legacy.”

The director, who has been an educator for over 30 years, thanked her husband, Mr. Kehinde Phillips, for supporting her to achieve her goals.

While stating the features of the newly inaugurated college, Phillips said apart from the quality staff and infrastructure, the school atmosphere was also conducive to learning.

She said, “Vine Crest College is established at this time, out of a passion to give back to the society, to leave a legacy, which, in the long-term, should be profitable.

“Vine Crest College is the evidence of our commitment to our country to help prepare a citizenry with an informed conscience, love of God and primed to make the world a better place.”

In his remarks, Pastor Femi Faseru of the Kingsway International Christian Centre commended the board of the school for its intervention in the education situation in Nigeria through Vine Crest College.

He advised the school to be a solution ground to Nigeria’s problems.

The event was also attended by the Bishop of Methodist Church Nigeria, Remo Diocese, Rt. Rev Gboyega Ohu, and some traditional rulers.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]