School owners who breach safety rules risk jail — LSSC administrator
Lagos State Safety Commission School’s Administrator, Mr. Dapo Taiwo, speaks with Yinka Badejo on the need for health and safety practices in schools

What are the responsibilities of the Lagos State Safety Commission?

The safety commission was established in 2011 and it is responsible for formulating policies and standards. It stands as a regulatory body and its work goes across board.

But the main responsibility of the commission is to save lives and properties in the state. It cuts across every other ministries and agencies that have anything to do with health and safety. The commission has an advisory role.

For instance, while the likes of LASEMA was set up to prevent incidents from escalating and save lives and deal with the aftermath, the commission aims to prevent incidents from happening. We know accidents will happen, but we want to reduce the probability of their happening.

My responsibility is for schools, and in schools. We take time to ensure the safety of pupils, teachers and other members of the schools. We tell parents to check schools if they are safe enough before enrolling their children and wards there in order to prevent unforeseen developments. Parents have the right to ask a school if it has health and safety policies because if a school has that, it will mean it actually takes health and safety into consideration. It is necessary.

We look at your physical environments, like buildings, doors, floor covering, playgrounds. For instance, playgrounds are meant to have soft surfaces but we found out that many schools make use of concrete and hard surfaces.

What are the outcomes of the recent meeting with the heads of private schools’ association?

The commission has decided to carry out safety audit in all schools in Lagos State, which will give us data to know the level of compliance by the schools. The government could ask the schools to carry out safety assessment of their environments and submit reports. These form part of the registration process when an institution is being approved because a school is as safe as when the ministry gives it approval on safety.

On March 15, we held a meeting with all associations of private schools. The reasons for this meeting is to ensure they understand the reason for the exercise, and understand their legal responsibility. We passed the information through the associations, so that they could disseminate the information to heads of schools and school owners, because these associations have thousands of schools registered under them. We are still going to arrange seminars with the owners to further enlighten them on these safety procedures.

The associations will also inform their schools on the upcoming audit that we will be undertaking. They requested we give them notice before we turn up, which we agreed on. Normally the commission has the power to send out inspectors without prior notice but, for this exercise, we will give them notice.

It was not just a meeting, it was also a training for them to understand that having a school requires paying adequate attention to health and safety practices. Most of these owners are not thinking about health and safety in the school environment but once they know what to look at, they can go back and identify these hazards and know how to check them.

The safety commission is not only looking at auditing and wanting the schools to comply with recommendations. The staff must also get the right training in case of emergencies. We are going to organise training for school staff, which will consist of how to identify hazards within the school environment, what to do about these hazards and how to write their own policy statements.

We also want to involve the schoolchildren by demanding that all schools have safety prefects in both the senior and junior classes. We will train the children that the schools will present as the likely candidates to fill those positions. The training will commence within the next few months.

What are the safety and health parameters schools should put in place?

Schools must have a safety policy that is meant to cover unforeseen incidents in the environment that can cause harm to the people in it and enable the school to avoid future accidents. So, it does not need to have happened before you do something about it. It is something you sit down to think about and when you draw up a policy, you have thought about things that can happen and how you deal with such. How you deal with it and who does what because that is important. We have to look at who would be responsible for ensuring that when the schoolchildren alight from the bus as the bus comes in the morning, how do you ensure that they don’t fall out of the bus, how do you ensure that the driver doesn’t move the bus unknowingly when a child is still coming out…?

What likely constitute hazards in schools?

There are cables capable of catching fire when plugged; so the management and staff have to be weary of them. It is common to have trailing cables in schools, which could cause children and teachers to trip over them, which may lead to serious injuries. So, they must be checked. There are some cases where we have overloaded sockets, exposed wiring which is a concern because that is fire and electrocution waiting to happen.

We look at sanitary provisions. There are some schools in the state that do not provide toilets for their pupils. It is required of every school to have a functioning water closet, not a pit latrine. The school authorities must also provide clean drinking water.

We sometimes come across schools with sub-standard facilities and whenever we find such, we do our report and refer the information to the Ministry of Education.

What punishment is given to offenders of the safety rules?

There is serious punishment for offenders. At the meeting, the Director General, Hon. Hakeem Dickson, insisted that the schools have the responsibilities to ensure the safety of lives and properties within and outside the school environment. If you fail, there is a possibility of a fine and an order that would ensure you still comply with the safety policy. If an accident should occur and the commission carries out an investigation that reveals you had failed in your responsibility, it will take that person to court. Anyone found culpable can be fined or jailed.

The commission has different approaches to enforcement depending on the infractions. The commission may give prohibition notice and improvement notice. If an inspector comes to a school and identifies a hazard that has the potential for any major accident, he has the power to stop such facility from being used right.

Last year, some schools refused access to their facilities with the excuse that they were not informed about such visit while some were bold enough to tell the inspectors that their associations had told them not to allow any inspection be carried out within the school. Now, enforcement does not start only when you do not comply with recommendations, it also does when you refuse access for the inspection to be undertaken because that means you have something to hide.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]