Edo flags off BEST programme
Alexander Okere, Benin

The Edo State Government on Thursday said that it had begun its Basic Education Sector Transformation programme across primary and secondary schools in the state.

It described the programme as an integral part of the transformation plan of Governor Godwin Obaseki for the sector through the use of Information and Communication Technology.

The government said the initiative would enable teachers in the state to keep abreast of modern teaching methods and restore public confidence in the school system.

Obaseki had during the flag-off of the programme said the reforms in the sector would revolutionise the public school system, as government “prioritises teacher training and improved learning experience for pupils, with the aid of ICT in classrooms.”

It further stated that the BEST programme would commence with the distribution of textbooks in schools in Edo State.

The Special Adviser to the governor on Basic Education and acting Chairman of SUBEB, Dr. Joan Oviawe, explained that the textbooks would serve as instructional materials for the Edo BEST programme.

Oviawe noted that the textbooks were an integral part of the support structures being deployed to upgrade standards in public schools.

She said that teachers undergoing training on new teaching methods would use the textbooks in the classrooms to ensure best learning outcomes.

Oviawe explained, “Edo BEST is about imagining the education of tomorrow and starting it today. Governor Obaseki is committed to a holistic change in our basic education sub-sector.

“On the first day of the training for teachers, over 3,000 showed up. The textbooks have just arrived, so we expect that with these and other learning aids, we will record appreciable progress in repositioning public education in the state.

“We are pursuing a holistic education reform and much as we are training teachers to adapt to new ways of teaching, we are also ensuring that they get textbooks and other aids that support this new way of doing things.

“So, we expect to see drastic changes with the coming of the books and other structures we are putting in place.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]