36 graduating students bag first class in FUTO
Gibson Achonu, Owerri

A total of 36 graduands of the Federal University of Technology, Owerri , Imo State on Saturday bagged first class degree in various disciplines.

The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Francis Eze, disclosed this during the 30th convocation ceremony of the institution.

The vice-chancellor said that a total number of 2,325 were awarded first degrees while 438 postgraduate degrees and diplomas were also conferred on deserving candidates.

The university, he noted, came first in the Open Education Resources ranking of Nigerian Universities organised by the National Universities Commission, adding that the result of the 2017 NUC accreditation of its programmes showed that all the eight programmes recorded full accreditation status.

To further deepen her training, the Eze said the institution had introduced Information and Communication Technology in efforts to broaden teaching and keeping abreast with modern trends.

He stated that the same discipline had been deployed in the payment of fees, registration of courses, hostel room allocation, examination and processing of results/transcripts which had greatly improved efficiency.

“Thus, of all the 45 programmes, only two have interim accreditation status, while others have full accreditation status. We are also preparing some new programmes for NUC resources verification”, Eze added.

He said the university had successfully traced its 2016/2017 set of graduands who had been sufficiently groomed both in character and learning to contribute to the growth and advancement of society.

Also, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, Managing Director, Niger Delta Development Commission, Nsima Udo Eken; Chairman, Orange Drugs Limited, Chief Tony Ezenna and General Manager, Exploration Esso Exploration Production Ltd, Andrew Ogaga- Ejayeriese, were conferred with honorary doctorate degrees in different disciples and for their immense contributions to humanity by the university.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]