AAUA students protest increase in tuition fees
Peter Dada, Akure

A few days after the Governing Council of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, Ondo State, announced a 500 per cent increase in tuition fees, the students of the institution took to the streets of Akure, the state capital, on Monday in protest against the increment.

The governing council had increased the fees from N30,000 to N180,000. The increment, our correspondent gathered, varied from one department to another. According to a source, the students in some departments, such as Educational Management and Guidance and Counselling, are asked to pay N120,0000, while students in the Accounting, Economics and Law Departments will pay N150, 000. The students in the Faculty of Science are also required to pay N180,000 as tuition fees.

The leaders of the National Association of Ondo State Students and the National Association of Nigeria Students also joined in the protest against the increment.

The protesting students had gathered at the popular Oba Adesida Road, at about 8.30am, to start the protest. As a result, commercial activities were paralysed in the area for several hours at a stretch.

The students, who blocked the road and made bonfires, chanted anti-government slogans and carried placards bearing various defiant messages.

The President of the Students Union Government of the institution, Olawale Ijanusi, insisted that no student of the institution would pay the new fees. He also said the students would not resume until the university reviewed its decision.

Ijanusi recommended that the old fees be increased by 30 per cent for new students, while the returning students should pay the old fees of N30,000.

Defending the decision to increase tuition, the Pro-Chancellor of AAUA and Chairman of the governing council, Dr. Tunji Abayomi, said the university faced a serious financial challenge that could lead to its collapse in no distance time.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]