New provost: Tension in Alvan Ikoku College
Gibson Achonu, Owerri

A fresh management crisis is brewing at the Alvan Ikoku Federal College of Education, following the demand by a faction of the Joint Action Committee of the non-academic staff of the institution that the Acting Provost, Dr. Dan Anyanwu, step down for aspiring to become the substantive provost.

The group, led by Dr. Benjamin Nwokedi, made the demand in defiance of a previous directive by the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, on the procedure for the appointment of a substantive provost for the institution.

The faction had gone ahead to disrupt the on-going examination at the college in an attempt to force out the acting provost and to halt academic activities.

But Adamu had, in a letter dated 9th February, 2018, with reference number SAF.36/5.465/VII/21 and signed by the Director of Tertiary Education, J.S. Ojo, stated, “Neither the Act establishing federal colleges of education nor the conditions of service for colleges of education exclude an acting provost or any interested and qualified candidate from aspiring for the office of the provost”.

The minister’s directive only excluded the acting provost from “attending any meeting of the Governing Council/Joint Selection Board, where a decision on the appointment of a substantive provost is being taken”.

The management of the institution also argued that the acting provost’s refusal to step down was in line with the position of the Federal Ministry of Education as earlier communicated to the Governing Council of the institution in the letter from the education minister.

It would be recalled that the Nwokedi-led JAC played an active role in the removal of the immediate past provost, Prof. Blessing Ijioma, over allegations on tenure expiration.

Our correspondent gathered that the group allegedly agitated for a region in the state to produce the next provost of the institution, having not produced one since it was established.

Also, condemning the action of the group, the management, in a statement made available to our correspondent, described the call for a strike action by the JAC as a calculated attempt to disrupt the academic calendar and punish the students of the institution for selfish reasons.

Dismissing the call, the management argued that a union could only go on strike for reasons affecting the welfare of staff and not for reasons that were not within the purview of the group or persons “under the mask of the unions”.

The Assistant Secretary of the Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union, Comrade Dr. Johnson Ofoegbu, in another statement, also dismissed the demand as illegal and self serving. He urged the JAC to concentrate on staff welfare rather than the politics of succession.

Ofoegbu said, “As one of the principal members of the union and having followed the recent happenings in our college, the Alvan Ikoku Federal College of Education, we have told Dr. Nwokedi (factional JAC Chairman) several times that there is no public service rule that says an acting provost should step down because he applied to become the substantive provost. Nor did the National Commission for Colleges of Education stipulate that an acting provost should vacate office because he or she applied to become the substantive provost.”

When contacted, Nwokedi, said that his group’s intervention was necessitated by complaints from applicants for the post of provost that the process was compromised.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]