Would you allow your spouse access to your social media accounts’ passwords?
Tomi Mark-Adewunmi and Joy Titus

This week, Adam & Eve spoke with some Nigerians on whether they would make passwords of their social media accounts open to their spouses

Adedayo Shobolami

We must trust each other

Yes. Why not; I believe that whatever secret you keep today will be revealed in one way or the other in future. There are no secrets in life. My answer is yes, I would give her access. In actual fact, she (my wife) knows the password to all my social media sites. Also, we have an agreement that whatever she sees on my page that needs an explanation will be attended to no matter the issues and she should always keep emotions aside when it comes to serious matters deserving examination.

Also, as a counsellor, she sometimes sees the files of my clients, but she knows whatever is confidential is confidential. What matters most is the trust between us. As a couple, we must trust each other.

Ijeoma Alfred

My husband checks my social media accounts

Well, allowing my spouse access to my account password is not a big deal. Currently, my spouse has my email password and my Facebook account password. I am usually not online because of my work. So he is usually the one who alerts me if there is something that needs my attention online apart from WhatsApp that I check myself. But for my Facebook and most of my social media accounts’ passwords, my spouse has access to them. There was something I registered for and I was sent an email. I didn’t know; it was my spouse who saw it and responded. It is not a big deal to me.

Ojurongbe Damilola

I won’t give her access to my WhatsApp

Well, to some extent, I will. Whatever is private is private and it takes a lot of things to be a private person. I can give her access to other accounts like Facebook and others but obviously not my WhatsApp. I wouldn’t give her access to my WhatsApp account to maintain her sanity.

I really don’t want any woman being mad at me due to reasons I might not want to explain. Women can be nosy, so my WhatsApp account remains passworded. I believe even between couples, one’s privacy should be respected. If your wife knows every single thing to the extent of having the password to accounts especially some private accounts, there would be lots of quarrels.

She might not want to understand the difference between business associates and having an affair. She would be unnecessarily jealous. Therefore, I would not give her my WhatsApp password to maintain peace as well as her sanity.

Winifred Akudo Madu

My privacy is mine

No, I won’t. I married the kind of person who doesn’t care about that (password). Your thing is your thing; it is not that we have something to hide. At least I can ask for his phone when I want to do something and he will give me and I can give him my phone if she wants to check anything there. In any case, I won’t stress myself by going through his phone to check what he is posting and who is sending messages to. If I suspect him, I will confront him so why go through the stress of checking his phone. If he suspects me, he can do the same.

Arogundade Sunday

I’ll do to show I love her

Yes, I will so that she can be assured that there is no other person in my life except her. In any relationship, one needs to build a strong cord which one calls trust. If truly I love her like I say I do, I should be able to give her the passwords to my social media accounts because by doing that, she would trust me and submit to me. That submission reciprocates the love I showed her.

The Bible in Colossians 3:18 says, “Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them.” The main point is “Husband loves your wife” and that same Colossians 3:18 says, “Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands” as it fits in the Lord. For this to be done, the man needs to first love and show his wife the love in many ways. That is why I said giving her my passwords is a sign that I love and I completely trust her.

Tessy Emefe

We know each other’s passwords

Yes. I have his password. At times, he uses my password for his accounts. It’s not really a big deal if you don’t have anything to hide. If you love someone, you should not be concerned about having his password or him having yours. His privacy should involve or include you. I press my husband’s phone anyhow, not that I’m looking for anything. I am just used to touching it. I check his email, Facebook and Twitter and he is free to check mine too.

Onoolapo Matthew

Pivacy must be respected even in marriage

Well, I don’t have a direct answer. l would not say yes or no. But I would begin with a no. I would say no because it is a private space and I obviously may have discussed with my (male) friends on topics that may not require her knowledge at all. That doesn’t stop me from freely making her access it when I feel she can or when she requests to. I won’t outright drop my social media details for my spouse to access as I may most likely have things to sort out with my (male) friends and family and may not require her consent.

I would not let my details known to her although that doesn’t stop her from accessing them if she requests. One’s privacy must be respected even in marriage. There are some issues I would not want her to be involved in, it doesn’t mean I am hiding something from her or being secretive. I just don’t want her to get involved. If she wants to go through my accounts, she would have to be careful, especially with her thoughts.

Koko Adebukunola

My spouse has right to my passwords

Yes, I can, because I don’t have anything secretive on my social media. I can give him as many passwords to my social media accounts. I don’t see it as an issue so far I am not hiding anything. Moreover, he is my husband. He has the right to have my password. Marriage has already made us to be one. My answer to that question is positive. I have no issue with that.

Oluwole Ese

It’s no big deal

My answer to that would be yes, If for reasons best known to her she wants to have access to my social media accounts, I don’t see it as a crime. Of course, she is my wife and I have chosen to spend the rest of my life with her. I believe I should not hide anything from her. Besides, since there are no skeletons in my cupboard, I don’t have issues with her having access to any of my accounts. I really don’t see a big deal in it, she is my wife, so we should not hide anything from each other.

If she has issues, she is free to go through my account and be assured I am not cheating on her. Moreover, it will build trust, she can’t just question me because she already knows the password to my WhatsApp. In fact, what is the essence of hiding or keeping secrets when you are married? It is better to be open to each other. For me, it is a big yes. I see no big deal in it.

Mary Udoh

I can’t give my spouse my passwords

My take on that is no. I don’t support my spouse having my password. I have a reason for saying that. My number one reason is the issue of trust. If you trust your spouse, then why ask for her password? Because when you ask for the password it gives room for insecurity. You will always want to know who she is chatting with or let me quickly check if she is cheating on me and so on. You know question like that keeps coming about your spouse. Why ask for a password if you don’t want to end up feeling cheated? Just believe that this person will not cheat on you. When your spouse has access to your social media account, he can use it in a negative way, especially when we are no longer together.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]