Why makeup sex is more intense
Jesusegun Alagbe

One of the moments Dapo (not real name) looks forward to in his five-year-old marriage is when he and his wife just settled a quarrel. This is because anytime they have a heated disagreement, it always results in sex, the 32-year-old told our correspondent during a chat recently.

“You would think we would never talk to each other when we quarrel, but after everything, I apologise most of the time and then before you know what’s happening, I’ll cuddle her and we will land in bed to have the best sex ever,” the economist who works in a commercial bank on Lagos Island said, grinning.

Dapo continued, “I don’t know why it is like that, but anytime we settle a quarrel and we have sex, it is more intense than the regular sex and we seem to enjoy ourselves more than ever before.

“The energy in me heightens after a disagreement. She too displays some form of inexplicable energy anytime we have sex after the quarrel. It is amazing.”

Just like Dapo was puzzled, the question, Why do we crave sex after fighting with our partner?, is one many couples have not found an answer to.

According to psychologists and sex therapists, after a big fight with your spouse, you can go one of two ways: avoid intimacy as you both come down from your anger or suddenly become super horny and decide to have sex to smooth things over.

It seems a little strange that you can go from being so pissed off to being so turned on, but in fact, it happens to a lot of people, hence the term “makeup sex.”

Makeup sex is an act in which couples who have just had an argument head to bedroom to hook up and make up. Makeup sex is often super intense, judging from interactions our correspondent had with some couples.

A fashion entrepreneur at the Ogudu area of Lagos, simply identified as Ifeoma, told Saturday PUNCH she had never enjoyed sex better than when she had a makeup sex.

The 29-year-old said there was an “unusual” energy that enveloped her anytime she and her husband had sex just after settling a quarrel.

She said, “My husband and I quarrel just like any other couple, but we don’t stay on it. We quarrel to settle. And of course, my husband apologises most of the time. After a quarrel, which can last for between 30 minutes and a day, my husband feels new to me, as if he’s a newly found love.

“That feeling propels me to want to have fun with him. It’s a whole new level of feeling in our relationship, I don’t even know how to describe it. By the time my husband starts touching me, I’m literally gone. At that time, I just want to devour him. It’s a new level.”

Describing how sex after marriage feels like, an oil servicing company worker in the Lekki area of Lagos, simply identified as Ben, told our correspondent that it was usually intense.

“It is like my wife and I have never had sex before when we fight, but after the disagreement, I get lost and obviously, she feels same way too because of the manner in which she responds during the makeup sex,” he said.

“Actually, I get my energy based on revenge, like somebody has offended me and I want to punish them. I must confess this is the reason I get more power during makeup sex.”

Why does fighting lead to makeup sex?

After a fight, you can find yourself full of intense energy that can often translate into erotic desire, according to Brighton, United Kingdom-based sex coach and clinical sexologist, Ms Lucy Rowett.

“We have up some of the stagnant energy and buried resentments so that the erotic energy is moving again,” she told MensHealth magazine.

Rowett said for some people, having sex after a fight was a chance to relax, while for others, the appeal might stem from a fear of conflict.

“When some people fight with their spouses, their mind may go into disaster mode, thinking the relationship could be in danger. Makeup sex is a way of affirming that things are ‘all good’ without having to get into the ‘feelings talk,’” she said.

Likewise, marriage and family therapist based in California, United States, Pam Shaffer, said of makeup sex, “It’s a way to reconnect after an argument that affirms that the relationship is intact and that each of you still desire each other.

“It’s a way to signal that even though you had a fight, you aren’t going anywhere yet. Even if you plan to talk about the fight later, in the moments right after an argument, your animal instincts take over.”

A research fellow at The Kinsey Institute, Indiana University, Bloomington, US, and author of the blog, ‘Sex and Psychology,’ Dr Justin Lehmiller, said, “Makeup sex relieves stress, so it stands to reason that it could help couples move on faster.”

Lehmiller described the phenomenon whereby a couple who just had a fight have sex as “excitation transfer.”

He added, “Basically, the idea is that if you have carryover arousal from, say, a fight with your partner that you bring into the bedroom, it can make the ensuing sex more intense.

“Makeup sex is appealing because it brings us back to a state of connectedness with our partner and it’s so amazing because our physiological and psychological states are so heightened from all the fight drama.”

Generally speaking, heightened feelings do wonders for sex. A 2008 study out of Israel’s Bar-Ilan University suggested that people tended to be more interested in sex with their partnered after being primed with feelings of emotional threat, such as being asked to imagine their spouses falling in love with some other people.

Science behind makeup sex intensity

Researchers suggest that makeup sex is more intense due to the secretion of oxytocin, regarded as nature’s love hormone.

A marriage and family therapist in Washington, DC, Marissa Nelson, told the HuffPost, “The release of oxytocin during sex makes couples feel closer. They get that ‘feel good’ rush that soothes some of the emotions that may have come to the surface during the argument.

“I always say to my clients that sex is a place you enter and a role you step into. After an argument, it is a safe place to explore. Sometimes, makeup sex can add spice and novelty to the relationship and sexual routine.”

Our need for makeup sex might also have something to do with our survival instincts kicking in, said Megan Fleming, a New York City-based psychologist and sex therapist.

“Our attachment system gets activated during a fight,” she said. “When we disagree, the attachment bond feels threatened. It activates our fight and flight instincts.

“Arguing is arousing physiologically, as is fear and excitement, so the body is turned on – there’s an increased heart rate, respiration and blood flow.”

Is makeup sex harmful or beneficial to marriage?

A psychologist at the University of Lagos, Prof. Oni Fagboungbe, also explained to our correspondent why makeup sex was more intense between couples.

He said, “During quarrel, they would have deprived themselves of sex in one way or the other, and when the quarrel is settled, each partner is psychologically prepared to take back what they have missed.

“So they would find themselves more energetic than ever before. On the lady’s part, she may feel guilty or remorseful a bit that she has deprived the husband of sex, while the man may feel more revengeful.

“I think from a man’s angle, the energy for intense sex is instigated by revenge. The guilt and revenge make them both to engage in an intense sexual activity.”

The don said makeup sex was a way of cementing the settlement of a fight between a couple.

“In fact, it’s the most potent means to know the quarrel is over. It is necessary,” he said.

However, Fagboungbe said partners should not pick up quarrels with the hope that after it, they would enjoy intense sex.

He said, “It’s not the best way to go about having intense sex. If you want to use it as a weapon of sexual satisfaction, it may boomerang. When any of them gets inkling into why the partner is picking up quarrels, they may feel entrapped and might want to free themselves.

“This may lead to them not cooperating again and it may lead to conflict and when this happens, you can only know its beginning, you can’t predict its end.”

Similarly, a sex therapist and psychologist, Ms Olawunmi Esan, cautioned couples against intentionally creating quarrels just to have intense makeup sex.

Esan, who is the founder of Thriving Family, based in Lagos, said people differed, hence, “makeup sex is not for everyone.”

She said, “Harbouring negative emotions because a partner wants to have intense sex afterwards can be harmful in the long run. It could take a long period of time for some people to reconnect emotionally even when their spouses have apologised, depending on the nature of the quarrel.

“So, it is not wise for partners to pick up quarrels with the hope of having makeup sex. Rather, couples should explore other positive ways to ignite their sexual lives. Don’t be monotonous in sex; try new things.

“And remember, sex is just one aspect of marriage. Constantly creating issues because of makeup sex can be disastrous to the relationship over time.”

Esan also explained that makeup sex could be more intense and enjoyable because of high energy levels which could easily be channelled into sexual arousal.

“The emotional aspect is also there. When you have an argument with your spouse, it severs the relationship. At that point, the couple are not connected to each other emotionally,” she said.

She said when the fight was resolved, the relief of being able to reconnect emotionally could be channelled into having an “animalistic, very intense form of sex.”

She added, “That’s when they say you don’t know what you have until you lose it. In this case, when the couple reconnect again emotionally, they realise they had lost each other.

“Reconnection builds up a lot of emotion which can make sex to be more intense. It can be a reassurance of love and togetherness, especially for married couples.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]