Would you accept partner who dumped you for wealthy person?
Afeez Hanafi and Tomi Mark-Adewunmi

This week, our correspondents ask some Nigerians if they would give partners who left them for richer persons another chance

Ruqayyah Abiola

It’s risky accepting such man

Accepting such man is quite risky, even for my own life, because a good and responsible man can never take such a step. I see no reason accepting back a man who doesn’t see brighter future in me; a man who doesn’t see me to be all he has got. It takes a lazy man to even have such thought much less doing it. A man like that can even use his partner for money rituals because he’s lazy. He will continue to look for shortcut to become wealthy if I accept him back into my life. I can’t accept such a lazy and a gold digger back as my partner.

Miracle Kingsley

I will take her back

Yes. In life we learn to live everyday. In every mistake, error, and pain, we have something to learn from it. I still believe this saying, ‘whatever will be will be’. She might have been wrong for dumping me for money, she probably had been dealt with for her to make a decision to come back begging me. If we understand love very deeply, we will remember that despite all our actions and decisions, God always takes us back. So for me if am still single, I will take her back into my life because I believe she has learnt a lesson from another phase of life. But the level of my maturity can determine my reactions also. Still not minding, I will take her back.

Olawunmi Oladapo

Why I might give him another chance

Firstly, I’ll find out why he has returned. If his reasons are genuine enough, I might give him another chance and accept him back if I am not in another relationship at that moment. But if he has come back because the other partner has ended the relationship between them or has gone broke, then it is a good riddance. I won’t accept him back even if I am not in any relationship at that moment. That means you were with me not because you love me but because of something best known to you. Once beaten twice shy. I won’t allow you to rob me of my love or take me for a fool once again. If I should allow that, it means I am the fool.

Daniel Folorunsho

We can only be friends

No, I will not because I have got over her by accepting what happened and factors behind her leaving. She was not the type that can wait for you to pick up or your future ambition to come to reality. Also, I have grieved about the relationship and thought about everything. It means she felt I am not capable of taking care of her. Besides, I won’t do well by revisiting such relationship. And by the time I have accepted, grieved, learnt and moved on, and I have begun to enjoy single life, I won’t accommodate her back no matter what. The best I can do is to just be her friend.

Ebunoluwa Ayorinde

It shows I was in a dangerous zone

I won’t accept a partner who left me for a wealthy person. Marriage is about commitment and sacrifice for the good and bad times. A relationship is a foretaste of what awaits one in marriage and if this can occur now, it shows dangerous zone. For a partner to leave me for money, it speaks much more about him. It only shows that he can be controlled by his appetite which includes a lot such as money, beauty, sex, etc.

Olabanji Popoola

She would leave me again

Well, I don’t think that would ever happen. I’m so convinced and persuaded that I’m on the pathway to the wealthy place. But if it happened, I wouldn’t take back such “an ex”. She left me, which proves that she wasn’t right for me in the first place. It will be a severe slap on the face to get dumped for a rich man; it will hurt badly. My position is that after a breach of vows, many jilters come back for the wrong reasons. Probably because the rebound has failed woefully. From there, they tend to find a way to ease anxiety, and they often opt for the person that was recently most loving and romantic to them. But If I let her walk back in, it’s very possible that she is going to do the same thing again after his heart has fully healed. Defence is the best offence they say. Therefore, I wouldn’t take back such an ex.

Fola Adesoye

Why I won’t take him back

I wouldn’t take back such partner basically because I may not be where he left me and as a matter of fact our path may not cross again. Money, they say, is the root of all evils. If he could let go of me for a wealthy person, it means several things to me. Firstly, it means he can do anything to get to the top irrespective of the repercussions. Secondly, I cannot trust such person with my belongings because he will lack good management. Finally, whoever decides to make himself my past can never appear in my future again.

Oreoluwa Abisuga

We’ll maintain platonic relationship

Getting dumped could be the worst feeling ever. Now getting dumped for someone else richer is like multiplying that horrible feeling by two. It is truly terrible but you’ll eventually get over it. Although it could harm your self esteem, it could also motivate you to strive to be better. If my partner dumps me for a person simply because he is wealthier, then I will gladly move on although it will hurt. I prefer to view things from a positive perspective. I would see it as escaping a gold digger and tell myself I deserve better. I will not take her back, although I’d still try to maintain a platonic relationship with her because we could still be of help to each other. I won’t also bear any grudge against her. The main reason I won’t take her back is because she was unwilling to take a chance on me to become wealthy enough to properly take care of her.

Temitope Ojo

I will never have him again

I just can’t take back such partner. Hell no! He left me for a wealthy ‘sugar mummy,’ abi (right)? I’m interested in why he wants to come back. Is it that the sugar mummy is no longer satisfying his financial needs or what? He cannot tell me he is sincere about his return. Even if he apologises, it is a ‘no’ for me.

Joshua Akinkunmi

I won’t accept her

Before we started the whole journey of courtship, we must have agreed on a modalities. Inasmuch as you have accepted my request to be someone so dear. You must have seen something about me that drew you closer to my personality. You have waited for me to accomplish a purpose that ought to have transformed my sweat into money but all of a sudden you left because I didn’t have what you wanted. I won’t accept her back if she returns to me.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]