Would you sacrifice your choice of partner for your parents’ wish?
Afeez Hanafi and Tomi Mark-Adewunmi

In this week’s edition, Adam and Eve asks some Nigerian singles if they would let go of their choice of partners to please their parents

Ayobami Ezekiel – I know what is good for me

Those days when parents are the alpha and omega of a child’s life are long gone. Such a system gives the child no say in all matters. While it birthed some wonderful marriages, several horrible homes arose from it as well. A lot of times, the parents seek their own good, not that of the child. I love objectivity a lot. My parents can come up with their thoughts on my choice of a life partner, but their thoughts can never be my choice. I was brought up properly and understand all the essential qualities a lady should possess. I definitely know what is good for me and will always opt for that. Yes, they may have their reasons to want to disagree with me. However, as an adult, I will always be responsible for my actions and choices. They have to respect that.

Abolaji Ajose-Oso – No, I would not

Over the years, I’ve come to understand that God’s will for me is the best rather that what I want. As a Christian, God’s decisions for me is the final, not my parents’ decision. Another reason I won’t sacrifice “my choice” for my parents’ is that I was the one who saw her, talked to and got to know her more to the extent that I fell in love with her, and asked her out. My parents “in their own view and capacity” know what is good for me but I know better because I will be the one to spend the rest of my life with her, not them. I will be the one to go through whatever might come through her, not them. So I cannot and will not submit to the request of my parents as regards a life partner. At my age, I know better and the rest I live to God.

Adeleke Breachrepairer – My parents can’t decide for me

I wouldn’t sacrifice my choice of partner for my parents’ wish. My marriage is between myself, my partner and God. You would observe that my parents were not inclusive in the list of my marriage. This is one of the reasons my parents don’t get to choose my partner. In addition to that, ‘choice of partner’ means your supporter, deputy, assistance, etc. The only individual after God who should choose the partner is yourself. The only problem is that most people are not mature before seeking to choose a partner. I would like to reiterate that I can’t sacrifice my choice of future partner for my parents’.

Joshua Ihediwa – It depends on some conditions

I think it depends on the circumstance; if my parents give me concrete and valid reasons, then I won’t go ahead and marry the person. But if there isn’t any concrete reason from my parents, for example, if their reasons are based on sentiments, I will still go ahead with the marriage. But I will bear in mind that if things should go bad in the marriage, I will be ready to bear the consequence because I know my parents will not interfere in my marriage. However, I will ensure my marriage works regardless if my parents object or not. Secondly, we must understand that God in His infinite wisdom also gave man the will to do things, especially in marriage. When a man or a woman is going into marriage because of parental choice, such a person will definitely not have independence in that marriage; such a person also will find it difficult to take decisions, and ends up living the mindset of the parents. The person may end up not being an eligible father/mother and will never take responsibilities for the family.

Theophilus Ogbo – My parents don’t know what is best for me

A big no. I can’t do it personally because I have known this girl and I am fond of her, hence making it more difficult to let go of her. As the saying says, “parents certainly want the best for their children.” True, but “they don’t know the best for their child!” That makes it more complex. Moreover, marriage is all about friendship. Getting married to someone you don’t know well would end up disastrously. More so getting married to the choice of my parents would only lead to the happiness of my parents and not of mine.

Cecilia Fadele – I will, if they give me reasons

It is important for us to understand the fact that parents are very crucial when it comes to choosing a partner one will marry. For me, I think parents should give their consent. At the same time, if I have decided this is the person I want to marry, I would have checked him and see if I am not being misled. If I have decided to marry him, I will be patient with my parents to let them see the reasons why I want to go with him. I have experienced one whereby my parents said no and they gave me reasons. I disagreed with them initially, but in the long run, I realised that there was a way God orchestrated things and made my parents see it that way. I see my parents as being wiser because they are far ahead of me. Especially when you have spiritually inclined parents, it is good that you allow their consent. It is not as if they will decide for me but is good to listen to their wise counsel.

Olubola Sonowo-It’s a no for me

An average parent is selfish not because they actually want to be but because in their bid to protect the interest of their child, they tend to impose their selfish interests. For me, it’s a no. It can’t work. It’s not as if I will not listen to them about my choice of partner but then we have got to a position that we can make a choice for ourselves and we know what is good for us. We should be able to convince them enough. If they eventually insist, then the truth is that it (their decision) can’t work for me. At this point in my life, I am a child of God and trust Him that whatever decision I would make concerning such, I must have thought over it very well. What seem to be genuine reasons to my parents may not be genuine to me.

Amaka Okoye

Its my choice to make

Technically speaking, no. You are beginning your life, you won’t live with your parents forever. They both came together and made the choice to be with each other. Did their parents decide for them? Did they choose their parents over their own life? And honestly speaking, parents will die and go but you would be left with the man you married. Yes, sometimes death does not decide who goes first but you expect to bury your older folks and not the other way round.

Maria Oke – I won’t disobey them by marrying my choice

Happiness is a thing of the mind. My own happiness is of utmost importance first before my parents’ own comes in. I wouldn’t sacrifice my own choice for my parents’. Better still, if they disagree with me, I will wait till they succumb and if they don’t, I won’t disobey them by going to stay or marry my own choice but I believe a time will come that they will beg me to just bring someone I want. I have come to realise that out of the love our parents have for us, they are at times ruled by their selfish wish. This might be due to their past experiences and upbringing which affected their ideologies and belief. This is not yet a concrete reason for me to sacrifice whom I love for whom I don’t because my parents won’t live with me. As much as family is important and can’t be neglected, my happiness and the new family I want to build is more important.

Kemi Giwa – Why I’ll respect their decision

It depends. Although I know they wish the best for me, we will need to sit down and discuss the reasons for their rejection of my choice. However, if it is not something feasible, I will go ahead with my choice. But if it is a good reason, then I will respect their decision.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]