What’ll you do if your spouse disapproves of your friends?
Tomi Mark-Adewunmi and Joy Titus

Some married Nigerians speak on how they would react to their spouses’ disapproval of their friends

Hassan Akintoye

I’ll find out reason for it

I will inquire what prompted the disapproval of course. She cannot just tell me she does not like or want my friends; I make my choice of friends. Therefore, if it is something I can defend, I will do and if not, I will place the friend on observation to ascertain the truthfulness of the matter. I will also try to find out secretly if my partner’s disapproval is based on hypocrisy. I know it may take some time but the truth will prevail.

Chinyere Akinpelu

They can go, I’ll make new friends

The Bible says, “Can two work together unless they agree?” If that is the situation and he does not approve of my friends, what I will do is to maintain peace in my home. If I lose a friend, I believe I can always make new friends and a Yoruba adage says that 20 children cannot play for 20 years. Whether that partner approves of my friends or not, a day is coming when that friend and I will part ways but my partner will always remain. The only thing that should part us is death. I will ask my friend to step aside.

Though we started together at some points as friends, if I discover that it would bring separation, crisis, quarrels and misunderstanding in my home, as a person, I will find a way of severing the relationship. I might not quarrel with my friends but I will avoid them. It is not easy, but I prefer to stick to my partner than with my friend.

Festus Garba

The reasons must be concrete

In such a situation, you have to ask for the reasons for the disapproval; a decision cannot just come that you should not be friends with someone without any concrete reasons. After listening to the reasons, I will also give my own reasons why I am taking that person I was asked to unfriend as a friend. Then we will both weigh or consider the implications of each other’s decisions before arriving at a conclusion. There cannot be disapproval for my friends without a reason or reasons.

Folake Oladapo

My spouse’s decision vital

If my husband disapproves of my friends, there is nothing I can do but to stop moving with them. My husband is more important than a friend. I will spend the rest of my life with him while I part ways with my friends. He must have noticed something in the friend to disapprove of her; probably her manner, lifestyle, dressing and the best thing he can do is to protect me from becoming like her because friends can influence one either positively or negatively. If that is it, I have no option but to obey him. He will surely have his reasons.

Adeyemi Isiaka

I’ll be careful not to break my home

If my partner disapproves of my friend, what would I do? Anyway, my partner cannot disapprove of my friend if she does not see anything wrong; something must have gone wrong somewhere. In this situation, one has to play maturity to keep the home. A decision like this can cause a serious quarrel, and if one is not careful, the home will crumble because of a friend.

Therefore, one has to be mature enough to handle such situation with care and proper understanding to keep peace in the home.

Adebukola Adejobi

I’ll discuss the matter with him

I will neither argue with him nor fight him, I will look for a time he is happy or in a good mood and present the issue before him. Firstly, I will appreciate him for being a wonderful, caring, loving and responsible father and husband. I will let him know I cannot take him for granted and that his advice on my choice of friends is out of love and security.

Furthermore, I will explain to him how good and supportive my friends are. I will tell him know how they are doing in their families; that is, my friend’s husband’s job, their children’s academics and so on. Moreso, I will make him see why I chose them as my friends. Above all, I will call on God to intervene and soften my partner’s heart.

Femi Oreagba

I’ll quit the friendship if she convinces me

I will let go of any friend my wife disapproves of only If she is able to convince me satisfactorily without any sentiment that they are not the right friends I need.

If their presence in my life is affecting my progress and success, I would not hesitate to drop them otherwise she would not tell me who not to keep as friends. In fact, for her to disapprove of my friends, she must have seen something wrong. But she needs to convince me without hypocrisy or sentiment.

Florence Ofino

I’ll find out the reason for it

If my partner disapproves of my friend, I will first ask him why he feels so. After all, everyone is free to say their mind; who knows, she might have a fault I am not seeing but my husband, may notice it and that would have been after a very careful observation. After he must have stated his reasons, I will carefully watch out for that particular thing that made my husband disapprove of her. If I find that same fault in her, then I will stay away from her.

Oluwafemi Folorunsho

I’ll obey my wife’s decision

If my wife disapproves of my friends, I will obey. She must have her reasons and must let me know the reasons for her disapproval. I might not be able to identify why she disapproves of my friends but she is the person who can see from afar and observe carefully. Therefore, what I cannot see, I believe she can see it and prove it to me.

My saying is, “what God has joined together, let no friend put asunder.” I will surely agree with my wife she is my wife and she has every right to observe my friends to the extent of disapproving of them.

Joyce Ayilara

I’ll accept his decision and pray over it

Marriage like we all know is a mutual union between two individuals. They must cling to become one to speak with one voice. Situations arise where there are conflicts of interest and opinion. If not well handled, it could result in a misunderstanding, thereby impeding the peace and togetherness they enjoy. Therefore, if my partner disapproves of my friends, it is dicey and a bit complicated. Questions that would come to my mind are; who are my friends? What value has their friendship impacted on my life and home? Why does my spouse disapprove of them? Supplying answers to these questions requires truthfulness and objectivity. I will prayerfully seek the face of God and allow the Holy Spirit guide my decision. I will lovingly engage my husband to ascertain the reasons behind his opinion. I will accept his decision while praying and patiently waiting for him to have a better perspective and rescind his opinion concerning my good friends.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]