Would you go against your wish to vote for your partner’s political choice?
Partners in relationship and marriage have a way of influencing each other’s decision. During elections in a democratic society, citizens make their decisions based on the information they have on the political candidates and political parties. Saturday PUNCH asked Nigerians if they would go against their wish to vote for their partner’s political choice

We don’t have to agree on same candidate – Alabi Felix

As adults, I believe we have different reasons why we want to support or vote for a certain candidate and I don’t think I need to throw away my conviction about my candidate to vote for hers, unless she’s able to convince me. In any case, what’s the guarantee that her candidate would do better than mine, especially with this general notion that most politicians have same traits? The only exception to that, however, is if the person contesting is her relative and we need to support the person. Else, I think it’s only fair that we vote for who we prefer. Of course, at home we can discuss the merits and demerits of both candidates and from there, we can make our respective choices. But I don’t think we need to agree on same candidate or lord our decisions over ourselves. After the election, we can even tease ourselves on whose candidate lost or won.

Our views are different when it comes to politics – Shogunle Temiloluwa

I won’t go against my wish to vote for my partner’s political choice. My reason is because our views are different when it comes to politics and other things. Every Nigerian has a right to vote for their preferred candidate. Voting for my partner’s preferred candidate is not a yardstick to measure the love I have for him.

The only way I can go against my own wish is if one of his family members is contesting; then I will have no choice but to vote for that family member.

As a family, we should be in the same party – Fadekemi Adeosun

As a family, we should have the same opinion about our political leaders. The personality of the candidate also determines if I will support him or not; if I like the characteristics of a candidate, then I will be able to cast my vote in his favour. However, if I vote for a candidate because my partner convinced me, and the person doesn’t fulfil his campaign promises, I won’t keep reminding him or blaming him because as at the time when I voted, I was convinced enough with reasons to vote for him; so I will take responsibility for my actions.

Individual choice should be respected – Friday Ekeoba

Our society would have expected that we both belong to the same political affiliation. However, from my few years in marriage, I have come to know and understand that since we are from different background, we are bound to have different idiosyncrasies. However, I will not change my mind to vote for the candidate of her choice; instead I will motivate her to choose the right candidate. Above all, I will like each of us to stand by our conviction and vote based on our conviction and conscience. When it comes to performing a civic duty like voting, it is solely a matter of choice and it should be respected.

If my partner convinces me, I can vote for her preferred candidate – Uleyo Promise Ofunamhe

The truth is my partner can actually influence the candidate I want to vote for if she convinces me. Some people don’t really have interest in politics or voting; all they do is just ask their partner who they are supporting. On the other hand also, my wife may not really have detailed information about a candidate, she may just have a clue. But when she comes home, I can convince her to vote for someone else who of course is my choice. Presently, if I want to vote in the 2019 elections, I will only vote based on the political parties that have policies that I feel will affect my life positively.

The interest of the nation is important – Stella Katkur Attsar

The interest of the nation is very important to me because when we have a good leader, the nation will move forward. So if it is for the good of the country, I will vote for my partner’s political choice; but if I see that the candidate is not right for the future of the country, then I won’t vote for that person. I will have to be convinced enough that my partner’s political choice will bring development to the nation before I vote for that person.

Politics doesn’t affect marriage – Wallen Julliet

I won’t go against my wish to vote my partner’s political choice. Politics doesn’t affect marriage. Casting your votes during an election is more of a personal thing. My partner may like a particular political party just because the party has done something tangible that affected him positively as an individual but I may still have my reservations about his choice; because what affected him positively might have affected me negatively.

My vote is my choice – Abosede Akin

If I want to vote for a particular candidate, then that is my choice and it cannot be changed by my partner’s political view or decision. It is in the constitution that every citizen has the right to associate with any group; so if my partner wants to vote for a different candidate other than my preferred candidate, then that is her choice. I cannot be influenced by her choice of political party or candidate.

No, I won’t go against my wish to vote for his political choice – Happiness Sabo

I won’t go against my wish because we are two different people and our opinion about some issues is not the same. When it comes to my choice of candidate in an election, I will vote for a politician based on his profile and personality. However, if he gives me rational reasons why I should vote for a candidate of his choice, then I will consider.

Her choice of candidate doesn’t have to be same as mine – Olaiya Agada

I cannot be influenced by her choice of candidate or political party and I will never be convinced to vote for who she thinks is right. It is not something that can cause friction between us at all because we all have our personal reason why we choose to vote for a particular candidate. I will only vote for someone who has a great personality and has something tangible to offer.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]