Keeping secrets …Your marriage can make a difference
One of the most common reasons why many people prefer to keep their family secrets away from their spouses is the fear of criticism and stigmatisation either from their spouses or the families at large. In reference to last week’s article, I received an email from a young man who had set his wedding dates for the last quarter of this year only to discover that his partner of five years had been keeping a very grave secret from him despite the love they both share.

The persons his prospective wife introduced to him as her parents were actually her foster parents whom she had been living with from the age of eleven. Her biological mother had given her consent for her daughter to live with them in the city following the demise of her father.

The couple had no children of their own at that time and was more than happy to raise her as their own child. Now in her twenties, she has grown to become a woman whose heart has also captured the heart of a good man but felt the necessity to keep her past a secret throughout their courtship.

In his email, he said something that captured his fears and anxieties; ‘If my future wife is already keeping such a grave secret from me now, I really wonder what else she must have up her sleeves that I will never be privy to in the marriage.’

GREY FAMILY SECRET

Unfortunately, this is a grey area in many family settings where children have been raised by persons other than their biological parents. They are often subjected to keeping their identity a secret as a sign of respect and gratitude in exchange for parental care and affection. In some cases, the biological parents may eventually become isolated from the lives of the children even though they are well aware of the truth.

A SELFLESS ACT

Life is full of challenges and if your spouse is living in denial of whom she truly is, is an emotional trauma in itself. When you begin to understand that marriage is a relationship that requires an attitude of sacrifice and emotional stability above all understanding, you will become more empathetic towards your spouse situation rather than condemnation.

HER NEW IDENTITY

It is not impossible that your spouse has been struggling for acceptance from childhood and as an adult now, would certainly not want to lose her only chance of experiencing love again. Marriage may certainly be the transition she needs to build a whole new identity and she is not prepared to gamble the present for the past.

MATURITY IS KEY

Build a sense of maturity in your relationship and share your inner thoughts, fears and anxieties with your spouse especially at this time. The key to untie the difficult discussions in marriage is good communication, and if you cannot ask questions about things you don’t understand, you will be compounding possible problem for everyone.

GOOD INTENTION

Wisdom and knowledge coupled with understanding is very essential when communicating with her so that she doesn’t misinterpret your good intentions for confrontation. A good place to start the discussion is by asking your prospective wife how much transparency, honesty and trusts she feels is essential in a happy marriage.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]