Beautiful lovemaking for weekends (I)
Funmi Akingbade

Do you know the number of weekends that married couples have to themselves in a year? 52 whole weekends! Is that not wonderful? It’s amazing and brilliant. And you all can agree with me that husbands can make these weekends memorable periods for their wives. Just go the extra mile and unravel the wishes that many wives may not be able to say out but deeply desire. They are just things that many men need to refresh their memories with one more time.

One: First, make sure that sex is on the agenda on these weekends.

Two: As soon as this is established, promise yourself that you will not be in a hurry to make love to your wife. Remember that you have 52 times to make yourselves very comfortable.

Three: After you have settled that, look for different ways of inviting your wife for sex. Carefully caress your wife’s nipples, clitoris and vagina with all sense of romantic gesture. Make sure your moves are not easily predictable on those weekends.

Four: Nipples, clitoral and vaginal stimulation can be the high point of foreplay treat given to a wife anytime. It can even be the main event of many nights or an erotic need that couples return to frequently during long sexual encounters.

Five: Manual stimulation is incredibly important for wives to have an orgasm.

Six: Most wives need a little more nipple, clitoral and vaginal contact than intercourse. Warm, wet and intimate stimulation can be just as fun and satisfying as intercourse.

Seven: Actually, 87 per cent of wives prefer nipple, clitoral and vaginal caressing to all other forms of foreplay. Many wives fantasise about lying down and having their husbands go down on them, but many cannot express it. Moreover, if you want to sexually pamper your wife or want her to be consumed with enticing sexual feelings, try this out tonight.

Eight: There is something about a husband feasting his eyes, hands and mouth on his wife’s nipples, clitoris and vagina that can translated both partners into a world of ecstasy, bliss and elation. The sensation of the tongue on the nipples, clitoris and vagina is usually enough to make couples hysterical and hyperactive with pleasure.

Nine: However, according to research, many husbands do not lick the right places well or sometimes do not stay long enough to make their wives climax; we shall be looking at the nitty-gritty of nipple, clitoral and vagina stimulation today.

Ten: To fully comprehend and practise the instruction I would be giving, please bear these few facts in mind. During sex, reach down and rub your wife’s clitoris whenever possible and you will be increasing her chances of having orgasm.

Eleven: For many wives, manual stimulation of these areas is the only way they can climax. Rubbing the nipples, vagina and the clitoris the right way is not something husbands just know how to do; it is something they have to learn. When a wife’s vagina is not yet lubricated, ‘never’ try to insert a finger or penis; it is pure legal raping.

Twelve: Studies have shown that husbands staring at their wives’ breasts for 10 minutes a day can improve their total well-being. The human lips, tongues and genitals are the most sensitive areas of their bodies. The strongest muscle in the body is the tongue.

Thirteen: The tip of the clitoris has 700 nerve endings, more than the head of the penis. The most sensitive part of a woman’s vagina is the first two inches; that is where the majority of the nerves endings are located.

Fourteen: A woman’s skin is 10 times more sensitive to touch than man’s own. When aroused, increased blood flow causes a woman’s breasts to swell by 25 per cent.

Fifteen: As a wife is turned on, blood rushes to her vulva, causing the vagina to release a smooth liquid called ‘drops of Jupiter.’

Sixteen: The average duration of a female orgasm is six seconds. The Japanese word for orgasm can be translate as – ‘I have died and gone to heaven.’ Carefully stimulating your wife’s nipples, clitoris and vagina can make her also say these words.

Seventeen: One step at a time is the best secret code; so while together, have your hands under her, then stroke her clitoris through her panties to build the anticipation of feeling your fingers against her wet skin. Even if you have seen your wife’s nakedness a thousand times, don’t rush to take off her panties every time. Take the action to the next level by sliding your hand under her panties.

Eighteen: There is more to the clitoris than meets the eye, so don’t just rub the nub but start kissing your wife’s knees up to her inner thighs or from her navel down to her clitoris, then directly to her labia, and then find your way to her nipples.

Nineteen: A wife’s inner thighs are very sensitive. Incredibly, some wives can even have orgasm just by having their feet massaged. Starting your journey to the clitoris by kissing her thighs is still the best. This gives your wife intense pleasure and builds her anticipation for the thrill to come. Ask her to hold her legs up and out of the way; this allows you to have better access to the vagina.

Twenty: If you want to hear whether she is moaning with pleasure, ask her not to sandwich your ears with her thighs, you will be amazed with the varieties of ‘melodic rhythms’ coming your way! Pay close attention to the moaning; make sure it is not that of painful moaning.

Twenty-one: Go on and stimulate the clitoris and the surrounding areas with all your four fingers. Apply light to firm pressure using an up-and-down motion and slow circle. All these provide wonderful sensations and are helpful in bringing your wife to climax.

Twenty-two: You can vary the pressure and speed, depending on what she likes best.

Twenty-three: Husband, use the tip of your tongue to brush, tap or flip the clitoris in an up-and-down and/or side-to-side motion. Try it slowly, then quickly, and even more quickly. The tap can be light or firm.

Twenty-four: The other variety of clitoris simulation is the figure ‘8’ technique; this helps you to cover the entire surface of the clitoris.

Twenty-five: All you need to do is use your tongue to draw number 8 on the clitoris. Many husbands I have counselled have reported excellent results from this. You can also circle the clitoris with the tip of your tongue, try doing it very lightly, and then with increased pressure, especially when your wife’s clitoris is very sensitive. She will prefer the kind of licks you would use when eating or licking an empty plate of tasty soup.

Twenty-six: To win her heart, ask her to stand on a chair and go down on her, this makes her feel she is in control and it gives her a lot of freedom to move and respond and you will at this point have a fantastic view and full access to the ‘holy of holies.’

Twenty-seven: Nothing impresses a wife as the ability to be ‘fingered’ when her husband is licking her clitoris. The best way to do this is to steadily lick the clitoris while very slowly sliding one or two fingers in and out of the vagina [so that your palm is facing up]. As she gets more excited, try maintaining a steady pressure on the front inside wall of the vagina, which is where the ‘G’ spot is located.

Twenty-eighty: The vagina can seem complicated if the husband has not examined it well. To get to know it well and learn how best to please your wife, position yourself between her widely spread legs to get a good view and then start rubbing in different directions and watch what she responds to best. Notice the hood of the clitoris and the thin layer that covers it. Husband, you can pull it back to expose the clitoris for ‘excellent servicing.’

Twenty-nine: Some wives love being fingered from behind, it is so thrilling. Just bend your wife over the bed, the reading table, a chair, or the couch and massage her bum while you stimulate her clitoris and vagina.

Thirty: You can make your wife take a ‘cowboy’ position by sitting upright and grinding her hips back and forth or rising and lowering her body straight up and down on your manhood. By this, she can change the angle of your manhood inside her vagina.

Thirty-one: Then let her lean back; this will bring the head of your penis in close contact with her ‘G’ spot while you have unlimited access to caress her clitoris with one hand and the other hand can give her breasts plenty of attention, by massaging them or kissing and sucking her nipples.

Thirty-two: One thing is guaranteed with your wife maintaining a ‘cowboy’ position; there is no dull moment. Wife, you must be equally active and attentive. For instance, touching yourself in front of your husband can tell him what you want, rub your clitoris against his pubic hair while sex is in progress.

Thirty-three: You can lean back on him, make your clitoris a focal point for pleasure, and give him the honour of stimulating it. Some wives in their childbearing age sometimes tell me this may not be possible with them, but I know it can because childbirth can increase blood supply to the vagina, making it more responsive and readier for action.

Thirty-four: While all these are taking place, it is important for the wife to take any comfortable position and also be active with her husband’s body.

Thirty-five: Whether you are facing your husband’s feet, head, or kneeling in front of him, there are lots of simple things you can do to intensify the fantastic feeling. Caress his balls, play with is pubic hair, or stroke his thighs. You can also enhance his enjoyment by pressing the base of his penis. The husband loves it when the wife plays with his penis while he is taking care of her clitoris. So, take a few seconds to hold and squeeze his organ, paddle it from side to side, rub your face against it or use your hand to slap it gently against your tongue.

Questions and answers

Changing positions

Funmi, when changing from missionary position to woman-on-top, how do we manoeuvre the switch while keeping husband’s penis inside me? Whenever we try this, my husband penis just pops out.

Mrs. Monday.

I am sure most couples marvel at the expertness of most of the X-rated movie actors and wonder when such can be a reality in their home. However, the truth of the matter is that sex is not always as flawless and faultless as being presented by such actors. People knock heads together, are twisted up in the sheets and, for a moment get disengaged. It can be awkward to change positions in one smooth moment; most couples stop and reconnect.

However, to have flawless sex, start with missionary position close to the edge of the left side of the bed. Keeping your right leg straight, wrap your left leg around your husband’s waist and hook your left arm under his shoulder. Pushing off with your right arm, keep a firm grip on your husband as you roll him onto his back toward the right side of the bed in one sweeping motion. If his manhood slips out, put it back in and resume your captivating session.

Help! We have a fairy tale sex goal that is destroying our sex life

Please, how attainable is simultaneous orgasms? My husband said this should be our next sexual goal but I think it is more of a fantasy than a reality. He expects it anytime we are making love, but he is hyperactive and I can’t even match his pace. How can you help me?

Mrs. Deborah

The myth that reaching orgasm at the same time is the epitome of sexual fulfilment is based on a number of false assumptions. First, it assumes that married couple gets aroused and then responds at the same pace. That is highly unlikely. Second, it assumes that goal-oriented sex is more fulfilling than pleasure-oriented sex. On the contrary, goal-oriented sex can interfere with fulfilment by introducing demand, anxiety, and often a feeling of failure, all of which hinder the body’s natural response mechanism. Just tell your husband that if he does not expect this to happen every time, you will be the best. Instead, keep kissing passionately every day. Kissing is the barometer of the state of your sexual relationship. Sometimes, I wonder if wives really understand how intense their husband’s sex drive is or how intrinsic a man’s sexual fulfilment is to his self-acceptance. Remember men and women are different. If wives have their husband’s testosterone levels, they’d be a lot more interested in sex. Try and keep up with him; you will soon meet up.

Can this possibly be affecting my sexual performance?

Funmi, I noticed that my sexual performance is just zero; it’s nothing to write home about. Please don’t misunderstand me, I love to have sex, get good arousals and have a feel of wanting sex, but my problem is that as soon as I’m about to get into the act, failure occurs. It is either I don’t just feel like having it anymore or when I’m about to penetrate, I lose erection. I went for a series of tests and was told I had pre-diabetics syndrome.

Anonymous individual

Pre-diabetes syndrome is when the blood sugar is higher than normal, but not high enough to be called diabetes. You may not necessarily notice any symptoms; some may have it and not even know it. The danger of it is that it may make you more likely to have Type 2 diabetes and heart disease, if not controlled. However, it has been discovered that it may already have impact on the sufferer’s sexual performance, such as what you stated. One of the fast treatments is for you to watch your diets, stick to life-saving foods and diets and eating lifestyle. Incorporate foods like unripe plantain into your daily diet and take more of vegetables. Do all you can to lose weight; it doesn’t have to be a lot. If you lose just seven per cent of your body weight, it can make a huge difference. Eat healthier food with fewer calories. After you have adhered to this for four months, you should be able to see tremendous changes and if your sexual performance has not improved by then, then there would be a need for you to get the 36-hour-of-freedom natural herbs to help in totally overhauling the damages on the tissues of your penis and also to help in restoring the nerves of your penis. Please note that you have to get rid of your belly fat more than any fat on your body. This is because excess accumulation of belly fat is more dangerous than excess fat around your hips and thighs. Belly fat is associated with serious health problems, such as heart disease, stroke, and Type 2 diabetes.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]