How important is age difference to you in considering who to marry?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

People have different views when it comes to age difference between husband and wife. For instance, some people are of the opinion that a man who is way older than his wife will earn more respect from her, while some will consider the idea as irrelevant. Saturday PUNCH asked Nigerians about the importance they attach to age difference in considering whom to marry

Age difference doesn’t matter in a relationship – Ademeso Oluwatosin

Even though I’m a lady, I could get married to someone younger than I am; the most important factor in marriage to me is love and understanding. Age does not really determine if you will respect your partner or not. For a woman, submission has to do with your attitude. Even if a woman marries a man 10 years older than her, if she is not submissive, she won’t respect the man.

Personally, if I want to marry someone older than I am, the maximum age difference for me will be eight years and the minimum age difference will be four years; this is my personal opinion.

Age difference is important – Toluwalope Obadipe

As for me, age difference is very important. I don’t think I would want to marry someone younger than me or my age mate for reasons best known to me. However, in my opinion, the maximum age difference I can consider for someone older than I am is a seven-year gap.

Age is just a number – Orimadike Chiamaka

Age difference doesn’t matter once the partners understand each other, not just as a couple, but as best friends. If the partners are God-fearing and God is the centre of their home, then there won’t be any need to consider age difference. Age is nothing but a number; the most important thing is to be with who you are at peace with and who you can genuinely cope with in all ramifications.

Love is what matters most – Queeneth Hilbert

Even though age is very important when it comes to marriage; I still feel the decision as to who to spend the rest of my life with should be determined by how much I love the person and not necessarily about the age difference between us. If he makes me happy, and as long as he loves, cherishes, adores and respects me, then I’m good with him. I don’t have a problem with age when it comes to considering a man I want to spend the rest of my life with.

Age is almost as important as good character – Crystabel Goddy

Many people use the cliché, age is just a number but the sad reality is that, it’s proved to be one of the major determining factors responsible for mental development. Some young guys speak and act like they are going to be young forever; they live recklessly and hardly think of investing their money in something profitable. In my opinion, if a woman decides to be with a younger man, then the age difference between them shouldn’t be more than three years.

A man should be older – Jedidiah Imonikhe

Age difference is very important because the usual belief is that the man should be older than the woman. This gives the man a form of superiority over the lady and it will make the woman submit easily to the man. Also, the woman will have some vital values to learn from the man since he has more experience on earth. If both partners are of the same age, then it may not really matter because they will have mutual respect for each other. In considering who to marry, mutual respect is very important to me.

Age determines respect – Anjola Adeniji

Age is important because it brings about respect between a couple; without age difference, disrespect may set in, especially if the woman is more financially stable than the man. On the other hand, it may not really matter if the partners take a conscious decision to respect each other regardless of the age difference between them. Truth is, despite the age difference, some women will still submit to their husbands and vice versa. The most important factor is love and understanding.

Age is not important to me – Oguntoye Seyi

Personally, I believe love is the principal factor in a relationship and it should be the major factor that partners should consider before getting married. Whoever I fall in love with, even if the person is a younger or an older lady, inasmuch as there is a mutual feeling and understanding between us, we are good to go. After all, there is a popular saying that age is just a number.

Age difference doesn’t matter – Oluwarinu Joshua Obanijesu

When it comes to marriage, age difference doesn’t matter. Age is just a number; the most important thing is finding true love. If a lady finds love in a younger man, then she should go ahead and blossom in the relationship. If a man finds love in an older lady, they can still go ahead and establish their relationship. Other people’s opinions should not matter because human beings will always talk. Understanding and trust should be the bedrock of any relationship; they lay a solid foundation.

Age does not matter; God is the most important factor – Omiteru Emmanuel

In choosing a life partner, age is not important. The most important factor to be considered is hearing from God before choosing a life partner. God will never lead his children astray. According to Amos 3:3, which emphasises the importance of agreement in companionship; once the partners agree, then age is not an issue. Marriage has to do with both partners giving 100 per cent of their time, efforts and emotions to make sure it’s successful.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]