Natural ways to delay ejaculation (3)
Funmi Akingbade

We started to look at the natural ways to delay ejaculation two weeks ago and by the special grace of God we are going to be looking at part three to four as we continue this week.

As much as sex is a basic instinct and an inbuilt phenomenon of the spirit soul and body it has been observed that many couples do not know where it all beings from. The lack of this knowledge has made many couples believe that sex cannot be very sweet, fantastic and pleasurable with just only one partner. Some spouses are looking for sexual pleasure and satisfaction in some other people apart from their partner as regards shape, colour, look or smell different from their partner’s.

But the truth of the matter is that sex with any person, with fantastic shape, smell, look, size or colour starts from the same biological or animalistic location of the participant all the time; it begins from the same physiological spot in the body all the time.

The actual differences which many people are ignorant of is the root of the immediate trigger, this means that the trigger point, or the arousal point or the desire point is always the level of the transformations or changes.

So, sexual satisfaction is not 100 per cent because of look or shape; it is actually a high percentage of where it starts from. Where does sex start from, the brain, the mind or the eyes? Human brain is a very complex structure that controls the glands that produce sex hormones. The human brain is intricately linked to our sexuality.

The brain cells are not made from one single component and are not isolated from the rest of the bodies, but the major action of the brain is to diffuse neurotransmitters, an important element for the human sexuality.

The centre of a human brain manages the ‘instinctive’ reactions of the sexuality: this centre receives information from its surroundings, which most times are from our triggers, tastes, preferences and stimulants, from the entire body when we are being touched, carressed, stroked and fondled and, according to the situation, causes instinctive reactions to receive or reject sexual desire.

When a spouse’s body receives information coming from his or her partner, this information is sent to a part of the brain that we can call ‘instinct’;The ‘instinct’ asks the ‘emotion’ what it thinks. ‘Emotion’ then checks its memory to see whether events linked to the situation are good or bad experiences.

At the same time, ‘logic’ analysis the feasibility of action in terms of social norms, moral principles, hurt or rejection level and stress level. If the answers come back positive, ‘instinct’ can trigger hormonal secretions that control the suitable sexual response. When ‘instinct’ receives authorisation to react, it also triggers the release of several hormones such as neurohormonal and neurotransmitter products.

These products stimulate both ‘emotion’ (giving the desire for pleasure) and ‘logic’ (arousing the production of fantasies and happy marital union and bond). These same hormones also trigger a weakening of all inhibitive elements that could obstruct action (at this stage, many couples forget their fears and dare to do what they wouldn’t normally do as regards sexual fantasies).

The presence of a desire for one’s spouse sets off hormonal triggers repeatedly again and again but with constant repetition; the glands reduce its secretions which most times lead to less arousal and less excitement. At this stage, a partner reaches a state of low sexual arousal as an effect of daily routine they follow.

However, routine sex is inevitable in a marital relationship. What a couple should do is to make an effort to renew arousal by getting ‘emotion’ back into play. Couples need to know how to invent new situations for arousal to renew the flame. This is because on average, a woman thinks about sex five times per day while a man thinks about sex 13 times in a day.

Since sexual arousal begins in the brain and is visible on various parts of the erogenous zones, married couples can enjoy sensual stimulation by understanding these erogenous zones.

The erogenous zones are the parts of the body that are particularly sensitive to the touch. This is because they have many sensory nerve endings. Stimulating these parts of the body, when there is mutual attraction, usually results in the brain sending strong sensations and sexual excitement moods.

The entire surface of the skin is sensitive, but some parts of the body have heightened sensitivity. From the head downwards, these are: the lips, ear lobes, the nape of the neck, the armpits, the breasts, the hands, the stomach, the buttocks, the genitals, the inner thighs, the back of the knees and the feet.

Not all erogenous zones respond the same way. Therefore, it is important to know and study one’s spouse’s erogenous zones. Ask them what they like and remember that the way a partner caresses is as important as the caress itself. In addition, do not forget that you can use your fingers, mouth, or any other part of your body, to caress and stimulate your spouse’s erogenous zones.

Many husbands enjoy having their nipples stimulated. Both men and women have nipples, and these nipples are very sensitive to the touch. They become hard when stimulated. However, while most women enjoy having their nipples stimulated, not all men do. However, it could be that some men simply have not tried it, and so they do not know what they are missing. To discover this, wife, try sucking your partner’s nipples, nibbling or stroking them. He is sure to tell you what he thinks.

The interconnectivity of the brain and the rest of the body makes it necessary that the male and female bodies need to be prepared for sexual intercourse before vaginal penetration. Foreplay, which is clearly a source of pleasure, actually helps to prepare the body for the subsequent stages of sexual response. Touching and caressing your partner’s body triggers a number of active brain cells and physiological reactions: heart beats faster and the genitals become engorged with blood.

Without foreplay and arousal, there will be no signal from the brain, there will be no erection, no vaginal lubrication and, certainly, no orgasm! However, remember: everyone is different; some people take longer than others to become aroused while others may have very specific preferences. In spite of all these, some people still fail to become aroused during foreplay.

The act of touching someone does not automatically lead to sexual arousal as the person being touched has to be receptive. First of all, they need to feel comfortable with their spouses. Sometimes, many couples are advised to engage in sensual telephone conversations. They are advised to say erotic things to their spouse on the phone: this does not only help some couples who find it very difficult to communicate, it helps to break down the hindrances of shyness and lack of boldness. It helps them to make foreplay become verbal, visual and easily acceptable.

During telephone foreplay, say what you wish but have found very difficult to pass across. Say what you are anticipating. While you are talking, please let your voice be very low, sexy, carnal and literally caressing as if your finger is actually on the skin of your partner.

The clitoris is another female sex organ that requires a lot of attention. It is the organ that enhances sexual enjoyment in a woman. It varies in size and shape.

But the fact that the clitoris may assume a dual form does not mean there is a medical problem, nor does it mean that it will trigger off multiple sensations in a woman when caressed. The truth is that no matter what a woman looks like down there, the clitoris has the same capacity for helping her to achieve orgasm when it is stimulated.

The clitoris has 8,000 nerve fibers, which is about twice as many as the male penis contains. When stimulated, it becomes as hard as penis. This important sex organ should be tenderly caressed during lovemaking, in order not to inflame it and get it infected. It must not be cut off in the name of female circumcision.

When cleaning up, ladies should avoid the use of too much alkaline soap because it can disturb the natural pH level of the vulva and, as a result, make the clitoris hard and painful.

The reason is that the female vulva, which comprises the clitoris and other organs, produces slightly acidic pH that encourages the growth of a bacterium known as lactobacillus, which keeps the clitoris in a healthy condition for as long as possible.

The clitoris is the sex organ that makes it possible for a lady to have an orgasm. If she keeps experiencing healthy orgasms; there is the possibility that she will not have any more menstrual pain and cramps. Sexual orgasm actually minimises or prevents menstrual pain and cramps.

This is because the vigorous muscular activity that takes place during orgasm, down in the clitoris, releases tension and soothes pain.

Interestingly, orgasm increases the chances of conception occurring after intercourse. This is because when a lady experiences orgasm, she retains more sperm in her body, thereby increasing the possibility of fertilisation taking place in her womb. But couples should avoid frequent sexual intercourse during the wife’s menstrual period because she is more susceptible to infections at this time than any other.

Do you know that having orgasmic sex three times in a week burns off between 7,500 to 15,000 calories in a year? Besides, a healthy orgasmic sex is a natural antihistamine that can help combat asthma and common cold. That is why couples do not catch cold or sneeze in the middle of sexual act.

The skin is another organ that must be cared for. Couples should endeavor to have regular bath, at least twice daily, to prevent bad odour. So, when couples form the habit of washing up in the morning and at bedtime, they are very likely to end up having healthy skins, such as would be sexually appealing.

But salty food, alcohol, caffeine, and cigarettes can leave the skin in a bad shape, as a result of an overload of toxins. To enjoy the service of your skin in a good sexual relationship, it will be wise to steer clear of highly salty food. Similarly, the level of alcohol intake should be minimised because it affects the liver and too much alcohol affects your ability to enjoy good sex.

The mind is another important key to building a good sexual relationship. Married couples should always strive to keep their minds free of hurtful memories, inhibiting notions and stress, in order to increase sexual enjoyment. You must, on a regular basis, make up your mind to always forgive your spouse, regardless of their offence. You may never have a healthy sexual relationship with your partner until you are ready to overlook their faults.

It is amazing how most married couples neglect their bodies, especially those parts that are essential to a healthy and balanced sex life. As I have found out, only very few couples remember to keep such sensitive parts in good shape. Many couples do not care much about the conditions that are vital to the attainment of a fulfilled married life. All that they ever care about is getting satisfied sexually. Nobody seems to consider the fact that the same organs that have helped them to achieve sexual enjoyment ought to be serviced regularly. As long as married couples fail to realise this fact, the farther they will be from marital bliss.

The breasts, for example, are one of the most prominent sex organs of the body. A wise woman would do well to keep them clean, well-packaged and closely examined at all times.

Sometimes a reddish bump may appear on a breast. If it does not grow bigger and its colour does not change, then you should consider it harmless. But if it is at least, the size of a pencil eraser and contains two or more shades of red, or has a raised rough border, it is better to have it checked out by a dermatologist, because it could turn out to be skin cancer.

If a woman feels pain in her breasts, she shouldn’t panic. A sharp pain is likely to be triggered by recent trauma to the breast. It is possible that her man played rough during foreplay and he may have injured that part of her body without realising it. The pain should subside without any medication. If the pain persists after some days, she should see her doctor.

Questions and answers

I have not been able to have penetrative sex due to the pain it causes

I’m in my third year of marriage and I am still a virgin. I have not been able to have penetrative sex due to the pain it causes when attempting it. It is always impossible because my muscles are so tense. Though, my husband has been very understanding, thoughtful, and considerate and has always been supportive, I am desperate to have penetrative sex and a baby. I really wish there were drugs or supplements available, which would loosen my muscles and save my marriage.

Mrs. Saheed Fatokun

You are not the only one facing such predicaments; many other wives have had such a challenge and do recover from it. All you need to do is first try and relax your mind. When the mind is relaxed, the body relaxes also. Secondly, let your husband finger you frequently with lots of lubricants; this will soften the hymen and also make the area less tense. Then do not always have the mind of penetrative sex during foreplay or romance, just have fun and let things just happen. Also, practise more of pelvic floor exercises.

Funny noises during sex

Some times when I am having sex; my vagina makes a noise; as if I am farting. It is so embarrassing, the noise woke my baby up the last time we had sex. What causes it, and how can I prevent it?

Beauty Asukofa.

This noisy emission is air escaping from your vagina. When you’re aroused, your vagina expands to allow room for your husband’s manhood. His thrusting during intercourse pushes air into you, which fills the space in the inner part of your vagina that has expanded. A shift in body position or a deep thrust can force that air out, resulting in the fart-like sound. It is also possible to ‘let out air’ post-orgasm, when air is expelled as the vagina returns to its pre-aroused state.

While making a gassy sound can be embarrassing, it is actually common. However, if it is getting in the way of your pleasure, try these preventive tricks: first, lie on your back and gently press down on your abdomen with the palm of your hand prior to intercourse this will expel air already present in your vagina. During sex, encourage your husband to make shallow strokes and avoid pelvic-elevated positions like doggy style, which can increase noisy emission. In addition, a good Kegel exercise normally rectifies this. Do not let a little noise restrict your sex life; just laugh it off.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]