Does your husband know your character?
Elizabeth Badejo

[email protected]

www.stringmynaijawedding.com …08097360766

Life comes with many setbacks; behind every smile are more than a thousand pains, sometimes too deep to comprehend. Every woman has certain characters which are capable of ruining her marriage when not exposed to her husband.

I’m insecure

Insecurity is a common disorder which many women suffer from due to lack of self confidence or emotional intelligence. Insecurity can be attributed to the traumas from the past; either from a failed relationship or desire for perfection. When you know that you are insecure, identify the reasons why you feel apprehensive and begin to have a conversation with your husband about your fears.

Your openness will make him more sensitive about your situation and more cautious too. Insecurity can cause marital instability but a good husband will certainly help you gain back your confidence so long as you allow him.

I’m unforgiving

As tough as this may sound, many women are truly intolerant and find it very difficult to forgive easily. Although this may not be obvious to men who are not intrusive or sensitive; a woman’s background may affect her willingness to forgive.

In the words of Marianne Williamson: ‘We are not held back by the love we didn’t receive in the past, but by the love we are not extending in the present.’ Marriage is a new life but things will only become new when your husband is able to understand your values; when you are able to understand the joy of giving and receiving love, you will recognise the importance of forgiveness too.

I’m a shopaholic

One of the most common habits in women is shopping, perhaps you can never get enough and a new occasion demands a new set of outfits, even when you necessarily don’t need it. Compulsive buying disorder is very common in women and if you are going through this dilemma, you don’t have to keep up a brave face, especially when you know that it has become an obsession.

Nevertheless, there is usually a reason why you do what you do and there are consequences if things go out of hand as you continue to live in denial. Sometimes, it’s a feeling of emptiness that needs fixing and confiding in your husband is a very important step which has the capacity to fill your emptiness, but only if you are open and honest too.

I’m reclusive

Often, people associate quietness with shyness; a woman who is quiet is usually perceived to be either timid or stuck-up as a woman is not expected to enjoy her own company alone. There are several reasons why a woman would be reclusive and the most common is the fear of socialising, especially if she has had several bad experiences with friends or disappointments from families.

You may also begin to feel isolated without your husband as he becomes your one and only companion within and outside your marriage. Isolating yourself from people is a strange behaviour which often leads to depression if not managed. Sharing your fears and vulnerability with your husband will usher in a breath of fresh air into your life again, offering you all the love and support too.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]