What do you consider the greatest sin in a relationship/marriage?
In marriages and relationships, partners are bound to agree and disagree which is natural as a result of their different backgrounds. For the sake of love, they overlook so many things just to be able to move on. But Saturday PUNCH asked Nigerians during the week about what they would consider the greatest sin in their relationships or marriages

Dishonesty – Adebukola Otun

What I would consider the greatest sin in a relationship is dishonesty because it gives room for partners to hide things from each other which may likely lead to cheating and other cruel behaviour. If partners are honest with each other in a relationship, it establishes friendship and brings them closer. If partners are very open with each other, then there won’t be room for unfaithfulness.

Infidelity – Louisa Ogidi Gbegbaje

When partners are unfaithful to each other in a relationship, there is a very high tendency that it could result in lack of faith and trust. Trust is a very important factor in the foundation of a relationship and any relationship that is not built on trust has a short life span. Also, a partner guilty of infidelity may become addicted to the act and this will make it very difficult for him/her to desist from it. Infidelity leads to lack of adequate communication that may finally destroy the relationship/marriage.

Lack of honesty – Adaobi Isreal

I think the greatest sin is not being completely honest with your partner. For example, if I am dating a guy, I would want to know everything about him; the good, the bad and the ugly. Then it would be left to me to decide if I can cope with some of his character traits.

For me, it is very important that I know everything about my partner; he shouldn’t leave anything out. Dating a person means accepting them with all their flaws.

Lack of understanding – Millicent Adeyoju

The greatest sin to me in a relationship is lack of understanding. I personally believe that understanding is the breeding ground for respect, love and communication and a happy relationship is impossible without these three factors.

When you fully understand another person’s background, thoughts, rationale for actions and reactions, you have cracked the code of who they are, then loving them comes easily.

Physical and emotional abuse – Bamidele Olamide

The greatest sin for me would be any form of abuse; both physical and emotional because I don’t believe that a person who truly loves you will abuse you in any way. Emotional abuse has to do with unconstructive criticism, lack of attention and commitment, verbal abuse and other negative attitudes that could spur anger in a partner. Emotional or physical abuse in a relationship always leaves a scar on the victim; it may be visible or invisible.

Cheating – Chinedu Ossai

Cheating in a relationship is a huge sin because when a woman cheats in a relationship, it brings down the progress of a man spiritually and in every other major area of his life. In some parts of Nigeria, if a woman should cheat on a man, it becomes a curse on the whole family because the man will have to struggle to get things done. There are other implications of cheating which include sexually transmitted diseases such as HIV and syphilis. Another core implication of cheating is that the woman is likely to get pregnant for another man and this may finally lead to the end of the relationship/marriage.

Infidelity – Collins Ndukwe

The greatest sin for me in a relationship is infidelity. I cannot imagine that my partner is having a sexual affair with someone else. I see it as a breach of trust and if such should happen, I will feel less of a man; it will also make me think she is going after another man because I am incapable of meeting her needs in all areas, including sex.

It may lead to emotional and psychological distress which is not what anyone wants to deal with because it could be dangerous to an individual’s mental health.

Secondly, the saying, “Once a cheater, always a cheater” will always come to play. Once a partner cheats, suspicion never dies because the offended party will always be on the lookout for a possible recurrence.

Breach of agreement – Gbolade Olulana

Well, the greatest sin in a relationship varies because it depends on how well the partners understand each other. Usually, partners discuss these issues and have an agreement before they go into any relationship. Therefore, anything that goes against this agreement will affect the trust they have for each other; and once trust is gone, it’s not replaceable.

I believe the two pillars of any relationship are trust and truth. If you don’t trust someone, you can never be truthful to that person and if you don’t say the truth, you cannot be trusted.

Adultery – Abere Ayodeji

The answer for me is adultery, because when a woman starts having any form of extra marital affair, it will have a negative effect on the relationship/marriage. Also, an adulterous wife will affect the success of her husband’s business or job.

On the other hand, if a man should cheat, the society may want to rationalise it and call it polygamy but when a woman cheats, it is called adultery. This is not fair because it seems the society has a way of giving a subtle approval to men when they cheat on their wives but when women do the same thing, it becomes a great sin. In conclusion, it should be noted that cheating is great sin in a relationship, either it comes from the man or the woman.

Lies -Fayoyin Samson

Telling lies to your partner can ruin a relationship. Let your yes be yes and no be no. Telling a lie is a sin, not just to man but against the Almighty God.

Every foundation of a relationship must be based on trust but once partners lie to each other in a relationship and if one of them should find out, it will affect the trust they have for each other which is the bedrock of a solid relationship. The bible also buttresses this point in Romans chapter six verse 23 which says that for the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]