Will you go ahead to marry someone your parents don’t approve of?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

An important factor before a marriage between two partners is considered sanctioned is the blessing of their parents. At times, some parents may disapprove of some persons getting married to their children. When that happens, Saturday PUNCH asked Nigerians whether they would still go ahead and marry such persons

I’ll reconsider if… – Lolu Jubril

It depends on the situation. If it’s about her religion, tribe or something I consider superficial, I would still marry her, but if my mother reveals that she has a real character flaw, I would have to take a step back and reevaluate the relationship before taking the next big step because I trust my mother’s opinion.

It depends on the reasons they give – Talabi Tomiwa

It depends on the reason. If the reason is something I can actually relate to and comprehend, for example health reasons, then I can let go. If the reason doesn’t really make sense to me, I will go ahead with the marriage. But generally speaking, it is more of a no than a yes, because I still need their prayers and blessings. If they say I can’t for cogent reasons best known to them, then I won’t.

Parents should reduce their interference – Samuel Imonikhe

To me, a successful marriage is a union that embraces understanding, commitment, sacrifice and responsibility.

One reason why most parents don’t approve of some marriages may be due to what they might have seen. They might have seen some danger signals ahead. But parents have to make the child see and understand the reasons why they don’t want their child to marry a particular person. It is not right for parents to just disapprove like that without explaining to the child.

For example if I find myself in that type of situation, I will insist on marrying the person; they are supposed to allow me go ahead with my decision and show maximum support; after all I will be the one in the marriage and I will be responsible for the consequences of my actions.

There have been so many stories in the past of people who married spouses their parents chose for them and at the end of the day, the marriage crashed. So to avoid issues like this, parents should allow their children make their decisions and stop interfering.

Parents’ wish is worth considering – Jonathan Ebubechukwu

Marriage is not a casual thing. If I am convinced of that person enough, I can go against my parents wish and I will be ready to bear the consequences. However it should be noted that marriage is not just between two people but between two families; if I go ahead to marry her, it means I am prepared to stand alone

Some decisions in life must be taken solely by me – Omole Adebayo

Love has no boundaries, I believe love happens to some of us just once in a lifetime and if I meet someone that I feel is worthy enough to be my spouse and my parents don’t accept for reasons like ethnicity or religion or something else, I would go ahead and marry that person.

Even though it is good to obey one’s parents, some decisions in life must be taken by me and my happiness is what matters most.

My happiness matters most in a relationship – Olufawo Toluwani

My parents won’t be the ones to stay in the relationship, so I believe it’s best for me to choose who I truly love rather than who my parents want. I can decide what is best for me when it comes to relationships.

My happiness matters a lot in a relationship, so if my parents choose who to marry for me and I don’t truly love that person, then the relationship will later collapse. For me to choose someone I wish to marry, then it truly shows that I deeply have feelings for him which cannot be changed

It’s my decision to make – Kaffo Oluwatosin

Although the blessing of our parents is very important, I would still go ahead with the marriage because at the end of the day, I am the one who is going into the marriage and not my parents. So, I should be able to decide on my own who I choose to spend the rest of my life with.

Parents would eventually come around if they truly love and care about their child’s happiness.

God acknowledges parental blessings – Ishola Khaerat

No, I won’t go ahead with the marriage; because parents’ genuine blessings go a long way in the success of a child’s marriage. Even God acknowledges the blessings of parents on the lives of their children especially when it comes to something as significant as marriage. No child should get married without his or her parents’ blessings; it is a sign of honour to the parents. And it is also very important to marry someone who is like a daughter or son to your parents in order to derive happiness on both sides.

What an elder sees sitting down, a child can never see it even if he climbs a ladder – Ochumba Loveth

I don’t think I will go ahead with the marriage. For my parents not to approve of the union, it means they have strong reasons why I should not marry the man. It is said that what an elder sees sitting down, a child can never see it even if he climbs a ladder.

It won’t be an easy decision for me if I am already deeply in love with the guy; but because I have a strong conviction that my parents know what is best for me, I will do according to their wish

If they give me good reasons, I won’t go ahead – Blessing Damilola Fashagba

I think it depends on the circumstance; if my parents give me concrete and valid reasons, then I won’t go ahead and marry the person. But if there isn’t any concrete reason from my parents, for example, if their reasons are based on sentiments, I will still go ahead with the marriage. But I will bear in mind that if things should go bad in the marriage, I will be ready to bear the consequence because I know my parents will not interfere in my marriage. If I decided to marry against their wish, I will have to be responsible for the outcome of my marriage. However, I will ensure my marriage works regardless if my parents object or not.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]