Survival guide to help you settle into marriage again
Elizabeth Badejo

[email protected]

www.stringmynaijawedding.com …08097360766

Marriage is a life changing experience and not a burden assigned to an individual alone; it can sometimes require the loss of negative mindset; openness and a certain level of risks to survive any marriage let alone subsequent ones.

Here are a few survival guides to set you on a successful marital journey again.

DON’T BE SCEPTICAL

Marriage is a game of chance just like life itself but when you are sceptical about your chances, it will only get back what you put into it. When you finally tie the knot again, it is also a good reason to untie the knots of uncertainty and sullenness in your life so that you can embrace this new journey without fear too.

SHIFT A LITTLE

All that is required many times is the right mindset and understanding the reason why you married again in the first place. It is as simple as shifting a little so that the next person can be comfortable on the ride too.

DON’T WALK ALONE

You are in this together and no one truly walks in isolation, even when you cannot see your spouse from miles away, you can still feel his/her touch. Walking together signifies that you are in a very strong relationship and have no reason to feel unsafe.

LET BYGONE

It is only when you leave the past behind that you can truly find happiness. Do not let the feelings of fear and insecurity of the past stop you from sharing your feelings or bringing up mind-boggling issues now.

TAKE A FEW RISKS

You already knew what happened when you do or think the same old way but you have no idea what will happen when you do some things differently now.

KEEP DIFFERENCES AT BAY

Keep your marital problems away from your families and friends as much as possible and find a common ground to resolve your differences as well learn from your own mistakes too.

It is the attitude of one which in turn changes the heart of another and turns the marriage around for good in the end.

PERFECTION NOT In EXISTENCE

The perception of marriage as a blissful affair may have been totally shattered by the various experiences you had to go through but do not try to aim for perfection since it doesn’t exist.

FIND YOUR COMFORT ZONE

Creating room to inhale and exhale is vital in this new marriage. Caring for you is just as important as caring for others; create your own comfort zone. Take regular breaks away with your spouse to discover who you are and what you both want for your future; it’s a great journey that often leads to reality checks too.

BUILD TRUST

It will definitely take time to build the marriage of your dream, but you can start today by doing those things that once seemed impossible, could be tough at first but the biggest risk will be to remain stagnant and defiant.

Share your feelings and strengths with your spouse so that you can build trust and intimacy which are the ties to a lasting relationship.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]