Your past can bring loneliness to your marriage
Elizabeth Badejo

The genesis of loneliness expressed in your marriage may not be unconnected with factors such as abuse and neglect which you or your spouse may have experienced in your individual childhood or adolescence; unfortunately making the prospect of loneliness a self gratifying prediction in your adult life.

Pains and afflictions from childhood can be very traumatising and can also last a lifetime. Confronting this very agonising experience is the only way you can gain total control of the past and create a better future for you and your marriage.

GET HELP, GET COUNSEL

The truth is that loneliness suffered from childhood cannot be managed alone nor together as a couple without seeking professional support of a therapist and other individuals you can trust to share your experiences with. Do not conceal all the dark memories of your past within yourself as it can be detrimental to your mental health and the stability of your marriage as a whole.

CHANGE YOUR MINDSET

One of the best ways to deal with loneliness is by changing your mindset when you fight those depressing thoughts plaguing your feelings today. When you change the way you think, you are also able to control the emotions you want to continue to dwell on as you have become more aware of your condition and how it has come to affect your life and your marriage today.

FIND EXCITEMENTS IN LITTLE THINGS

Everyone has a passion that they may or may not have been able to explore or fulfilled but it can be very difficult to find pleasure again when you have been lonely and trying to get back on your feet again. Taking little steps by doing the smallest things such as taking a morning or evening stroll together can enrich your spouse’s life again.

ENGAGE YOUR MIND

Once you start to string a bunch of little ideas together, you will also be taking small steps needed to gradually curb your loneliness. This is perhaps the best time to start a small venture if you have not been engaged in a long time due to your condition. Starting a business no matter how small will occupy your mind and soul as they say that “an idle mind is a devil’s workshop”.

GUIDE YOUR FEELINGS

Feelings can be contagious and inasmuch as happiness breeds happiness, loneliness can also breed loneliness too. While you are feeling lonely, it might also be interesting to note that your spouse may also be feeling lonely and neglected because of your own state of mind.

BE KIND TO YOURSELF

There are no pains without gains, even though you may not understand the gains your past has created for you because of the bad experiences, you are still capable of finding a silver lining which will eventually ease the pains of the past. Be kind to yourself and treat yourself well, subsequently begin to expect the best from yourself too.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: t[email protected]