Excellent ways good sex makes marriage stronger (2)
Funmi Akingbade

However, do not limit your place of passion to the bedroom. Passion can take place in the living room, the kitchen, the pantry, the backyard, the holiday inn, wherever you and your lover connect. Be playful, sometimes sex can be serious, say, if you are making love for the first time after a stressful period, or when you’re just not in the mood. Make a funny sound, stick out your tongue to tease your lover and make sure your lovemaking express your feelings.

Love without feeling becomes mechanical over time. If you focus on technique instead of feelings, you can feel good, but you may not feel close. You may feel turned on, but you may not feel passion. Remind yourself of why you are with your married lover, what makes you care about him or her.

Don’t ever forget that innovation and novelty is a basic aphrodisiac for passion, libidoral desire ignites when the mind is curious. The excitement of new challenges, flowing into the old and leading into new pathways of ecstasy can be overwhelming. When your sexual script gets tired and desire fades, trying new ways to delight each other can amplify your appetite, and your partner’s.

Simple changes can be stimulating, too. Try a new room, a new fragrance, or try a new touch, a new kiss, a new endearment, a new family planning method. Don’t ever undermine the power of good health.

Most people don’t give their sexual health any thought, but passion is in part dependent on how you take care of your body. For men, your fitness affects your erections. When you work out, your body may create more testosterone. Your heart and vascular system are healthier, too, preserving erectile function. For women, your fitness affects your hormonal balance and mood.

When you are stressed, your body produces too much cortisol, which affects estrogen. Fitness also improves serotonin, which picks up mood. So, fitness is good for your “love muscles.” You’d be amazed what simply losing five per cent of your body weight will do for all of these. You’ll have more energy for lovemaking. You’ll feel better about your body because there is a connection between diet and sex.

So, make eating fresh, healthy food a passion and discover new depths to your enjoyment. Be clean, never be too lazy to get up and brush your teeth; shave, shower, use fragrance to the taste of your spouse, watch for little sharp things like unkempt fingernails. Be smooth, be touchable and flirtatious; say sexy, funny little things.

Like so many things that give rise to passion, lovemaking starts long before you end up in the bedroom. Saying something that only your partner would understand, placing your hand in an unexpected spot on your partner’s body, or looking into his or her eyes with fire can all signal your desire.

Everyone loves to be wanted. If you want to receive, be willing to give, show interest and be interesting; passion goes beyond what happens in the bedroom. It starts with what goes on between your ears. Be a good conversationalist and a better listener. Read, listen to current romantic movies, go to new joints in town together, try a new sport or get more involved in one of your partner’s passions.

Make sure that whenever you want to say something, that something is valuable; this will make your partner want to be with you, close enough to hear it. The power of passion arises from sharing; the give and take in any relationship is the basis for its sweetness. If there is a way you want to be touched, let your partner know. Then be sure to touch your partner in the way they want to be touched, or kissed, or licked in such a way that the remembrance of such acts would literally want them to want to have sex over and again.

Many husbands will give anything for the penis to be sucked; tell your wife. Lots of wives want their clitoris to be actively involved; well, inform your husband. If there is something your partner craves, try to satisfy his or her needs. They will be more willing then, to satisfy yours.

Learn new types of touch. If you just grab your partner the same way every time you want sex, you’re going to wear out your welcome and quickly, too. When you understand that affectionate touch can enhance closeness and trust, you’ll see more passion develop in your relationship.

Be open to new experiences; it is good when sometimes change for the sake of change, being open shows that you are attentive, trusting, and curious and you want to grow together. So, go ahead, give yourself permission to experiment. You might even surprise yourself; this is one way to explore your sexuality, your own special knowledge of what turns you on. You won’t know unless you try.

Passion soars high to un-imaginable dimension when spouses validate one another; so give compliment, then feedback, then a compliment: “You’re a gorgeous lover. Really. Yes, could I ask you something? When you kiss my breast, go a little softer, my nipples are raw from your beard and teeth, have you forgotten you are not meant to bring out breast milk? Hmm, you are so remarkable, your rod always beats me hands down.’’

Learn how to apply all types of kisses on the lips, penis, clitoris and breast and be a good kisser. Kissing promotes intimacy, which promotes passion. A deep kiss can express deep love, don’t underestimate its power. The fleeting touch of the lightest kiss can have more meaning than a big, sloppy wet one. Experiment with your kisses, go light, firm, lick, and tickle suck deep.

Have real sex; don’t make pornography your yardstick, movie industry makes people think that passionate sex happens instantly, with three minutes of foreplay and simultaneous orgasms, pornography is even worse. Nobody could possibly be comfortable in some of those positions, let alone aroused.

Never make your bed a stage. One way to spoil a passionate sex is to focus on performance. If you are worried about yourself how you move, what you look like, whether you are pleasing your spouse like an expert, you’re focusing too much on you and not enough on your spouse and the process; this makes your performance suffer. Instead, enjoy your experience each moment as it unfolds.

Focus on the beautiful touches, amazing sight [for instance you can wonder in amazement how your husband’s penis stands rigid when it’s erect or praise the way your wife’s vagina swallows up your penis completely], taste every testable, and smell all odorous fragrant. Make sure passion is your focus, not your performance. Explore the erotic information; this is different from pornography. Pornography serves one purpose: to excite the viewer. Erotic informative movies, photos, stories, and poems go further. Erotic material explains why someone feels the way they do. Emotions such as love, longing, and passion are expressed.

To have passionate sex, you need to take your time and build arousal. Arousal leads to better orgasm. The passion that you see in the movies is choreographed as carefully as any dance. Choreograph your own love to whatever rhythm you wish for more explosive orgasms. Make it a habit to respect each other; do you know that just a few negative comments, criticism could cause a woman to have difficulty with orgasm, or a man to lose his erection?

No matter how strong or self-confident they may seem, people are very vulnerable about their sexuality and sexual organs. In a culture where people are expected to be naturally good lovers, sexual confidence is actually quite low. Help build your partner’s sexual confidence at all times in an open, loving, and respectful manner.

It is very important to have sex regularly; regular sex is a little exercise, good for your relationship, not only because it keeps your love vital. Research has shown that couples that have regular sex look, on average, 10 years younger than their peers. Regular sex enhances sound sleep, diminishes pain, reduces stress, improves our mood, and balances our hormones.

Sex is more than body parts and friction; think of lovemaking as a skill; there is always something new to learn. Married couples should always know that being a good lover should come naturally especially when they relax but more also when they learn. Because perfect passionate sex is a journey, and not a destination, sex is not all about orgasm at the end but about the experience that you gain on the way there like a good road trip, getting to your destination is more than half the fun.

And it remains great until something goes wrong. Out of ignorance, most men blame it on what is happening in their marriages or places of work. But in actual sense, the body could be telling us something that we need to know, or it could it be an indication that there is a serious health condition that we need to attend to urgently.

Yes, there is an increasing awareness that poor attitude to sex isn’t just about the quality of life. It could be a sign of an underlying mild or serious medical condition.

For instance, if a couple notices certain changes in their sex lives, it is necessary to tell a doctor or sex therapist. It is not proper to just wave it off. Under normal circumstances, men are more aggressive sexually than women. But when a husband’s slogan is ‘I am just not interested in sex anymore,’ it might be due to many underlying health issues.

It is true that lots of things can cause a man’s sex drive to become low; work stress, falling out of love, lack of sleep, poor monetary state and so on. But if those things don’t apply to your man, and he would rather do every other thing than make love, or if the sights and touches that once turned him on do not appeal to him any longer, such a spouse is probably having his hormone out of place or extremely overweight leading to shrinking of the penis. Or increased risk for osteoporosis, Type 2 diabetes, coronary artery disease, metabolic syndrome and so on.

At times, you or your wife could notice an unusual growth near your testis, which was not there few years back. Don’t take it for granted. It could be testicular cancer, and the problem with testicular cancer most times is that it may not be accompanied by pain.

I know that one of the basic challenges that most husbands go through is premature ejaculation, which can also be an indication of hyperthyroidism. Premature ejaculation, coming before intercourse or soon after it begins is common to newly married men or newly married men who have not been very active sexually prior to marriage but have engaged in heavy masturbation, liquor and cigar. Besides, premature ejaculation could strike at any age.

Though premature ejaculation was initially attributed to psychological issues, medical research has been able to identify physical causes, like the malfunctioning of thyroid (the gland responsible for making and storing key regulatory hormones). It has also been discovered that masturbation, especially in the early stage of life could trigger off this case. Teenagers, young adults and unmarried single men are advised to steer clear of any indecent practice that can affect their health in future.

Another case that should be critically looked into is painful ejaculation. Some men complain of pains whenever they ejaculate. It could be as a result of muscle spasm disorder or prostatitis. In women, there’s a condition known as vulvodynia. It is the chronic pain of the vulva (around the vaginal opening) caused by nerve disorder. This could be as a result of infection, trauma or any other reason.

Questions and answers

Which is the most pleasure zone in the penis?

Mr Abey Okoye

Many men consider the underside of the glans (head) of the penis and the underside of the shaft to be most sensitive to sexual pleasure.

Researchers asked 81 healthy men to rate the erotic sensitivity of different areas of their bodies, including not only the penis but also zones such as the scrotum, nipples, and neck.

The underside of the glans and underside of the shaft had the highest sensitivity rating for a significant majority of men, followed by the upper side of the glans, left and right sides of the glans, sides of the penis, upper side of the shaft, and foreskin.

I am a new wed please what are the non-failing habits that I can adopt to have the best of sex life

Mrs Helen Jacob Oby

To avoid getting into a sexual rut few years after the marriage, observing the following will help tremendously-; first make sure you always make specific sexual requests of your partner. Do not just drop subtle hints and hope your partner will eventually guess what you want, just ask for what you want. To help ensure your partner doesn’t feel threatened or bossed around, try talking about sex outside of the bedroom — that way, there’s no immediate pressure placed on him to perform. Once you feel more comfortable expressing your specific desires in broad daylight, you can start to express them when the lights go down by turning them into sexy talk . Don’t interrogate the female orgasm. One of the most common complaints we hear from women is that they just can’t climax. Unfortunately, stressing it simply exacerbates the problem. The second a woman starts worrying about whether or not she’s going to reach orgasm is the second she can kiss that orgasm goodbye. In other words, a woman who is struggling to climax might try ignoring her orgasm. Instead of focusing on the orgasm, she — and her partner — can focus on her body instead: What does it feel like when he does that? Why does being in this position feel so different? Where does it feel different? Do I like it? The woman should be as descriptive as possible in the answers — not just “that feels nice,” but “when your stubble scratches my thighs there, it makes the surface of the skin feel cool and tingly.” A woman can do this in her own head, or she can do it out loud with her partner — he would certainly benefit from the answers! Just do it. It sounds wrong, we know, but for the sake of your relationship, you should vow to have sex sometimes even when you don’t feel like it (that goes for women and men alike). You don’t always have to wait until you’re “in the mood.” In fact, having sex can — and often does — change your mood… from turned off to turned on, from annoyed to endeared, from stressed to relaxed.

I pass sperm any time I am passing out urine, what can I do?

Young Christian

There is a problem with your urethral or the base of your prostrate. The best solution is for you to see your family doctor.

Is the penis a muscle or does it have cartilage or what? How then can it be broken?

Jimoh Taiwo

The penis is not a muscle. Contrary to popular belief, the penis muscle does not contain any muscle. That is why you cannot move it very much when it is erect. The penis is a kind of sponge that fills with blood when a man is sexually excited. Blood builds up inside two cylinder-shaped chambers, causing the penis to swell and stiffen. The swelling blocks off the veins that normally take blood away from the penis. As an erection disappears, the arteries in the two chambers narrow again, allowing blood to drain away from the penis.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]