What does a successful marriage mean to you?
Marriage is a union between a man and a woman, but interestingly, the definition of a successful marriage means different things to different people, depending on people’s family background, religion and moral values. During the week, Saturday PUNCH asked some Nigerians what a successful marriage meant to them

Having a good wife – Ayodele Oluwaseun

I will simply say a successful marriage is having a good wife. The husband is the head of the home but if a marriage is not successful, most times it is the fault of the wife because she is meant to put in all her effort and pray for the marriage to work. She is expected to hold the marriage close to her heart. In Proverbs 31, the whole chapter explains what it means to be a virtuous woman. The wife should take the marriage as her personal project and make it work. In Gen 1 vs. 24, the man is instructed to leave his father and mother and cleave to his wife and they shall become one flesh.

When it comes to marriage, the guy should know that he is no longer a Mummy’s boy, so anything that happens between him and his wife, the parents should not hear about it. When they have issues, they should be resolved without any form of third party interference. Challenges between a husband and wife should be resolved between themselves. The rate at which the husband and wife can adjust and fix things is what makes it successful. There is no perfect marriage because the two partners involved are far from perfect. The woman is the pillar of the home; she has to be submissive.

A Successful Marriage raises good citizens – Adewuyi Oluwafemi Abayomi

The family unit is very important and significant in the society; and marriage is the coming together of two individuals to create a family. In my opinion, a successful marriage is one that is devoted to raising morally upright children who will become good citizens of the country. If people should take conscious effort to raise their children, then the society will definitely have good citizens. A successful marriage also has to do with how well the couple understand themselves despite their family background and religious beliefs.

Where there is effective communication and companionship – Edith Enemuwe

Well to me, a successful marriage is one where there is good communication and companionship, where we can talk with each other about anything without any form of reservation. It is one where we see each other as best friends, tell each other the truth no matter how ugly it is and hide no secrets from each other. Marriage has to do with a lot of compromises and sacrifices. A successful marriage is not void of fights or arguments, but it entails two humble partners, meek enough to admit their faults and ask for forgiveness on time. In marriage, both partners discover each other’s weaknesses and shortcomings but even after the discovery, they should not dwell on them but they should try to complement each other. Even when criticisms arise, it is advisable to be constructive and not destructive. Partners are supposed to be happy in each other’s company and yearn to go back home to each other’s arms after a hard day’s work.

It’s simply a union of two friends living together – Omowa Adeola Omotoyosi

I will define a successful marriage as a union of two friends living together. Friendship supersedes love in a marriage; when the butterfly feelings fade away, friendship holds the union together. High level of trust and self respect is one of the major bedrocks of a relationship. Once the partners trust each other, it will be difficult for a third party to come between them.

High level of understanding and tolerance – Ahmed Sanusi

A marriage is successful when there is understanding and tolerance between couples. If two partners understand each other, no matter how crucial the misunderstanding they are faced with, they will be able to tolerate each other. When a marriage is successful, it will give room to establish a successful family. The marriage is an institution that is groomed before the family is formed. Marriage is the foundation of a family unit; therefore, if the marriage is strong, then the children will have a very conducive and friendly environment to grow in.

Where unconditional love is key – Adeshina Christiana

To me, a successful marriage is a union that embraces understanding, commitment, sacrifice and responsibility. The most important thing in a marriage that will be successful is unconditional love. Unconditional love is needed because nobody is perfect. Everybody has their flaws, so partners are supposed to understand each other’s flaws. Couples are supposed to work towards understanding each other better.

It’s about sustainable love, trust and understanding – Emmanuel Ibitoye

For me, a successful marriage is the union that has love, trust and understanding in a sustainable way from day one of the marriage till the end of time. A marriage that has gone through the storms of life and still has trust, love and understanding should be given a pass mark.

A successful marriage has to do with the partners fully understanding themselves and appreciating their flaws and shortcomings and being able to compromise through it all.

It is about selflessness and faithfulness – Okunola Fadeke

To me, a successful marriage is about commitment, companionship and communication. They should be able to communicate freely; both partners should understand themselves very well. When there is understanding in a marriage, there will be less friction in the home.

Where wife and husband are like an open book to each other – Iniy Ogounga

For me, I will link a successful marriage to a relationship where there is absolute understanding and trust between the two partners. Where a symbiotic relationship is taking place constantly, meaning they are both gaining from each other. Another major quality of a successful marriage is honesty and openness; if an individual is honest and open to his or her partner, then that is a healthy and successful marriage. In a successful marriage, partners are meant to live a transparent life towards each other. The wife and husband should be an open book to each other.

Where there is peace of mind – Adenaike Damilola

I will tag a marriage successful if it has the following characteristics: Peace of mind, respect, good communication, patience, support and kind-heartedness; a marriage that has understanding and love as its foundation even after a very long time. Despite the change that occurs in the marriage overtime, husband and wife should support each other to develop into that next version of themselves where they get to see each other as one.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]