Excellent ways good sex makes marriage stronger (1)
Funmi Akingbade

True love is weighty, tangible, visible and influential; it is felt when expressed through practice and positive actions. It is not possible to be around literal fire and not feel the heat, except it is artificial or make believe. Similarly, when true love grows through erotic and excellent sex, the fruits are there for all to see and enjoy.

The proof that you love your spouse is not only that you have warm affectionate feelings towards them. The proof is in your actions, words and sacrifice, your willingness to give the best of erotic, warm explosive sex to them and your willingness to not to give such only because of the returns you will get from it.

This type of heart-felt love and lots of wild display of erotic sex is not only visible when we do big things for our mates but in little things. But also, visible when we give a listening ear to some of the secret sexual desire our spouse yearns for, and sometimes all it takes to show that you really love someone is to just listen.

Speak encouraging words rather than condemning and criticising, then lovingly and calmingly point out any wrongs they have done when necessary; this should never ever be done during sex. Look for little ways to always show how much you care.

Many wives want to be their husband’s confidant, he must be free to let you know his innermost being, his deepest fears, anxieties, actions and mistakes, and you want to be the closest to him. Just the act of giving him your loyal support and assurance and letting him know you are his number one fan and stop comparing him with others, especially on the sex bed can get this done. A common mistake women make is to compare their husbands with other women’s’ husbands and try to change or mould them into the image of their ideal man, or ideal sex man. The energy and time wasted on this stress and strain the relationship to a point of damage.

One of the simple acts in marriage is to make sure your slogan is friends for life, to be the best of friends does not mean couples will always understand each other or always agree on everything, especially on sexual issues. No, there are going to be countless moments of disagreement, but these disagreements would be done agreeably; never allowing your differences to degenerate into heated bickering or build a wall of separation, or separate sex beds.

Once in a while, leave the children out of your discussion, don’t talk about the kids all the time. This could be tempting but you have to try and talk about whatever it is you used to talk together while you were still dating. Find ways to look for things to laugh about, giggle together and keep those conversations alive.

For husbands, this might be a few minutes of stroking your wife’s hair and just saying she is the best. For wives, this might just be a few minutes of caressing the centre of his head and plastering it with kisses. I usually encourage wives to make sure their best toys should be their husband’s penis and scrotum whenever both are alone. For once, leave your phone, IPad, Facebook, snapchart and just hook on to your husband’s penis and scrotum and caress it to point of erections.

One mistake married couple make is that they stop dating after marriage. Actually, married couples should continue dating after marriage. In other words, courtship should start afresh after marriage, not the other way round. In general, couples would do well when they revisit adolescence times. Just as dating was an important way to get to know each other and connect before marriage, it is a great way to stay connected during marriage.

Both couples can just separate any Saturday morning and get into the car, run off into some beachside or resort just for an hour or so and share a joke, trickle each other, do a hide and seek game all by themselves and of course, have a wild abandoned sex as if such will never happen again.

If Lagos traffic will not help make this a reality, your garage, balcony, backyard or living room can do the trick. Once in a while, spontaneously have sex on the floor of your living room or on the couch or the laundry area. This little act of recapturing the good old dating days is one of the highest senses of bonding couples would ever experience.

The simple act of making it a point to call your spouse once a day or as many times as possible makes many relationships very healthy. It does not have to be a long conversation, just a quick call to say ‘you were on my mind, called to say I love you or how has your day been’ is just perfect. Whenever I have opportunity to counsel with couples, I always insist that phone sex was actually discovered for the married lovers.

Sharing the chores will not only help rekindle romance but produce ever fresh sexual intimacy.

It may be challenging for a wife to get her husband’s food and her own body ready the same time for her husband. Marriage is a team effort; it requires both spouses working together.

Simply taking an interest in what your spouse loves to do and doing it together helps to renew the friendship. As your husband is walking out the door on the morning, tell him you can’t wait to have sex with him that night, this type of anticipation builds up sexual strength and excitement all day long. It will not only make him more productive at work but also effective in bed.

Do not allow little erotic actions stay off your calendar. Do you know how much hugging and cuddling your love needs before and after intercourse? How about the sexual fantasies each partner nurtures? Paying a little extra attention to our sex life may be all it takes to transform it from a mind-numbing to an intense experience. Couples put lots of efforts into their careers, friendship and parenting-they read books and improve on all other areas in their lives. Well, that is not a bad idea at all. But good sex requires the same level of learnt information and attention, which means making time for sex matters a lot.

Hug each other for 20 seconds each day and flirt with each other. Even when there isn’t time for sex, make sure your mate knows you want to have one with him or her at any accessible time. Leave a romantic message on your partner’s phone or e-mail. Daydream about making love to your spouse while doing the laundry, dishes, and while at work or during your free time and so on.

Once in a while, when getting ready for bed, light a scented candle and play romantic music on the radio or CD player. This is one of the best firework stimulants. Anytime the opportunity arises, give your spouse a one-minute shoulder rub. Go as far as renting a romantic movie and watch it together after the children might have retired to their room. One of the secrets of sexual firework is that the fervour, closeness and passion must never be taken for granted because one in three men wishes their wives were better in bed.

Be generous outside of the bedroom with foot rubs, shoulder rubs and loving words. Little signs of affection can build up and put you both in a mood that you weren‘t necessarily expecting. Do you bath together? It is not a bad idea before bed time, seeing the glistening body of each other is not only sexy, it sparks raw fire. No harm happens to the marriage union when partners play together.

It helps keep the mind fit, relieves stress and provides opportunity to work as life partners. It builds camaraderie and spices things up in the bedroom. Note that while playing together, wives should remember to put on seductive underwear. Most men like attractive colours, especially the ones that are seductively designed.

Don’t forget to break away from the children’s grip and everyday life chores by eloping once or twice a year; it enables couples to loosen up and focus on themselves once in a while. Go ahead, become each other’s baby and share yester-years stories. Remember you can’t sit around waiting for someone to make you happy, and that goes for sexual happiness too. When there is a raise in salary, the arrival of a new car or something new and special happens in the family, you can think up an extraordinary way of celebrating it.

Pay yourselves compliments as women expect and need compliments as much as men do. If he knows that you think he’s sexy, he’ll try harder in bed to please you and prove that you’re right. With one compliment a week, firework flame comes alive.

In all you do as a couple, put sex first because there is no substitute for sex. Let it top your day-to -day priority. It’s harder to find time together when the children are either toddlers or teenagers-they stay up later than you do and most times know what you are up to. So, sometimes you have to put your relationship first before the children; that could mean sneaking into the visitor‘s room, the pent house or the master bedroom bathroom to have a short warm sexual escapade together. And it’s worth it. The fact remains that when these children are long gone, it is what both of you practise now that you will continue to do. So, don’t ignore your day-to-day activities and ‘hide-and-seek-game. If both of you are not sexually naughty now, you may both bore yourselves to death when they are long gone.

It is of topmost importance to husbands to know that their wives need them sexually. And these husbands want to come home to a ‘pure’ outlet. It does not matter if the wife is pregnant, nursing a baby or has reached menopause. Sensitivity and compromise must be a watchword here.

As far as a man is concerned, intense sexual relationship with their wives is more of physical and emotional tranquilizer; it enables them to relax afterwards. They solve life issues better subsequently after sex, become calm and relaxed. A sexually fulfilled man is a better giver, better lover and a better dad.

Therefore, pregnant and nursing wives should know that the sexual desire of their husbands is basically a matter of hormonal functions and regulations. It is also ‘ever-present’ and they need the physiological release. So, when a wife at any stage of motherhood maintains an enthusiastic sexual interaction in the marriage relationship, their husbands feel more secure and desirable as he grows older. Such husbands are better fathers, providers and home makers. In all you do, put sex first if you want the firework back!

Over the years, I have discovered that some sexuality habits have been the bedrock to good sexual relationship and many wise couples have adopted these practices to the advantage of the union. When you deliberately make these a reality, your marriage will not lack sexual flavour also. I am sure you are interested.

During sex, pay passionate attention to your spouse. In the moments of lovemaking, there is nothing more important than your eyes, your lips, and theirs. The best sex happens when the world falls away, and you are the only two beings that matter. And when the world really does fall away, you’ll be one being, delighting in each other’s bodies, minds, and souls.

Remember there is always a place for everything and everything must be in place; passion has its place, a place that’s clean and uncluttered. The sheets are fresh. The pillows are plump. The laundry inviting. If you or your spouse is a lover of music, let it be pleasant, spicy, slow or hot, either in your bedroom, where the door is locked, or where every other person including the children have been sorted out, so your hearts can open fully to one another. Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]