When your partner loves your child more
One of the best parts of any relationship is the feeling that you are the centre of your partner’s world. However, when children inevitably come on the scene, it can be quite a shock just how much and how quickly things can change. Here are a few tips on what to do when you think your partner loves your child more than you

Find out why you are feeling neglected

Find out if your partner’s behaviour is as a result of their joy of becoming a parent. Remember that there is a difference between a behaviour and a habit. Your partner might be probably over-excited about the new addition to the family that he or she may unintentionally channel his or her attention to them. Talk about these issues with your partner and look for creative way to help each other.

Communication

When you speak to your partner about your feelings, you may find out that he or she is oblivious of their behaviour and pointing it out will make them mend the broken family dynamic. It is also important to remember that in all likelihood, your partner doesn’t actually love you any less than prior to having a child. It may simply be your perception given your partner is so distracted with enjoying parenthood, and once they know how you feel, they will be able to reassure you of their love. Discussing on how these behaviours can be changed will help resolve the issue in your relationship and at the same time clear your doubts.

Take action

According to www.netdoctor.co.uk, it can be tough to have quality time with your spouse, especially when you have young children around. But you should always remember that making time and space for your partner is crucial to keep the love in the relationship. Whether it’s just a casual outing or a weekend getaway, find a way to have some quality time away from the kids where you can be partners and not just parents. Take yourselves back to how your relationship was before your children came along. Reflect on the happy memories you both had of time together, just the two of you.

Consider your partner

It can be confusing for you especially since you had the assumption that your partner will always be there and your bond will become even stronger with the arrival of your children. However, on the surface of things, it seems you have less and less time together as a couple. It is important to put in mind that this feeling can develop to jealousy and insecurity. Though as parents, it is expected that you should get wrapped up in your child’s every move, you should also pay much attention to your partner’s needs.

Be diplomatic

It is important to be reasonable when pointing out to your partner about their behaviour. Remember that avoiding the discussion of your partner’s neglect will make it difficult for him or her to understand why it makes you unhappy. So, speak to your partner about how their behaviour affects you and they will more likely want to change. The more you and your partner talk about these things, there will be no reason to feel insecure or neglected again.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]