Meeting the parents
There’s almost nothing as frightening as meeting your partner’s parents for the first time. Follow these simple rules to ensure a seamless first meet

Be punctual

If a circumstance hinders your arriving early, telephone them or send a text explaining the situation of things and if you can, give them an estimated time of your arrival. Keeping people waiting can leave them irked and upset.

Dress appropriately

Understanding that they come from a different generation as you, be careful to wear what will make them comfortable to be around you. Skimpy clothes and tight trousers for ladies should be avoided, and for men, your hair must be properly groomed and clothes properly set. Don’t be too familiar that you dress down as that indicates to them that you do not care enough to look presentable, except the occasion and setting permits casual dressing.

Bring a gift

Just as you would take a gift to your parents’ house when paying them a visit, you are expected to take one to your partner’s parents when going to visit. It makes you more acceptable and creates an immediate warmness on your arrival. It shows you care and you find it important to be accepted by them.

Offer to help

It’s important to help out with little house chores when you get to the house of your partner’s parents (if the meeting does hold in the house). Offer to help cook, clear up and do the dishes after the meal. It shows you are from a good home and have been properly groomed.

Keep your hands to yourself

We know you are in love but don’t get carried away by being too touchy-feely in front of your partner’s parents. It’s highly disrespectful. Your meeting with them will only take a few hours; you should resist touching your partner while visiting.

Don’t make inappropriate comments or jokes.

We all know how funny dirty jokes can be, but you must remember to keep such jokes within your peers. Grown-ups are old-fashioned and such jokes won’t be taken with humour because they’ll only assume that you are uncouth and ill-mannered. Learn quickly how they speak and respond to jokes and adapt their way for as long as you are there with them.

Drink responsibly

In case a bottle of wine is coming with the dinner, avoid drinking too much or even drinking at all. Your partner’s parents may not take kindly to it especially if you consume a little too much. Again, you are only visiting for a short while; you must curb your alcohol cravings until the visit is over. Also, getting drunk might lead to you speaking too much and revealing things you shouldn’t. That causes more harm to you than many other mistakes you might make and get away with.

Engage in conversation

It is truly awkward conversing with your partner’s parents because you don’t want to say the wrong things, come across as too chatty and all the other reasons but being dormant while a conversation is going on could make you seem standoffish and condescending. You should start off speaking with a few words and ascend with more words but be careful to not get carried away and hoard all the speaking time. Also, listen to their tone of speaking and follow suit. Lastly, be mindful that you don’t become disrespectful and annoying.

Don’t be too personal

Naturally, you are hoping to become a part of this family sometime; so, you can talk a little about yourself. Be careful not to spill too much of yourself and your family; it rubs off the wrong way. If you talk too much about the graces in your family and of yourself, you may come across as proud, and if you talk too negatively about your family, you’ll be giving off the wrong vibe.

Do your research

You can’t afford to have your first meet with your partner’s parents and not know anything about them. It’s helpful to ask questions and be as informed as possible beforehand. Your partner will be glad to answer your questions and prevent you looking silly when meeting the parents. Also, you are less likely to say the wrong thing or take a subjective position. For instance, if his mum or her dad lost a sibling to a war, you’d know how to speak on wars and the likes.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]