Tips on ensuring a great step family relationship
Elizabeth Badejo

The step family relationship was a norm in many African settings back in the days when marrying more than one wife was a status symbol as men used their wealth to monopolise women and children into their polygamous lifestyles. Children raised within the households were also expected to conform to principles laid down by their father/stepfather whom everyone took instructions from and because mothers were homemakers, they had time to nurture their children too.

Today, it is more complex due to many underlying factors and the expectations of all involved which can be a bittersweet experience for many children. Embracing the changes can be extremely difficult, yet it is not impossible to achieve.

Here are a few tips on building a great step family relationship where every child thrives and enjoys life despite its numerous challenges.

Do not try to take their parents’ place

As harsh as it may sound, while your younger step-children may welcome your new parental role, the older ones often feel resentful as they are not looking for a new mum/dad at this time and it is only fair that you do not try to replace their biological parents too. Recognise yourself as additional parents; give them time to work through their emotions while building a friendly and open relationship with them.

Respect one another

A happy home is one where everyone is valued irrespective of their age or status. Encourage the principle of respect in your home and make it your core value too. When it is spelt out boldly in your daily interactions with your children, they will in turn treat one another with dignity and respect too.

Make changes together

Children feel a sense of pride when they are included in decision making, recognise their individual strengths and allow them to make their own contributions when making important changes in their new home. Moving into a new family home is a big change but you can also make it a big deal by involving them in the transition process. Let them pick the furniture for your new home and make key suggestions so that they can feel more at home as you all make the transformations together.

Blend your values

Every family has its own values which are instilled in everyone; outlining the way and manner they relate and care for one another. Values are passed on from generation to generation, forming an integral element of the family life. A great way to ensure a good step family relationship is by blending your different values together and recreating new ones too.

Balance your role well

Instability and uncertainty are big impediments in many blended family situation and dividing your role as a spouse, parent and step-parent can also be tough. Do not succumb to choosing your favourite role of all, while you spend quality time together as a couple, you must also create memorable experiences for all your children according to their needs too.

NOTES

Do not be anxious about the tasks ahead or set yourselves unrealistic goals and expectations; a step at a time is all that is required so that you can all focus on all that you have to give today.

Time, patience, endurance and love are the ingredients you all require in building a great step family relationship.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]