More things to say about unending sexual pleasure (I)
Funmi Akingbade

It is amazing how information about anything can really be so much and readily available especially when your search for such is never-ending. At an instance when I feared there might be no more information to give, I instantly discovered that there are thousands and thousands more if only I launch into the deep for them. So today I will be sending across what I tagged ‘more things I want to say about unending sexual pleasure’. So, relax, read, enjoy and get down low and wild and rough with your spouse for a mouthwatering, insatiable and voracious never-ending sexual encounter.

Whenever I am privileged to tell couples that good marital relationship actually has a true link to good sex and that sexuality does not only add to their lives but enhances their health and lives, both physical and psychological, it seems to be an eye-opener for many people. Whenever any of the spouses is in the mood for sex, do you know that such partner is indirectly boosting his or her immune system or maintaining a healthy weight? Yes, good sex offers those health benefits and more because we are vital, sexual creatures. Sex does the body good in a number of ways, the benefits aren’t just subjective or hearsay but backed by scientific scrutiny.

Good sexual health may mean better physical health. Having sex once or twice a week has been linked with higher levels of an antibody which can protect spouses from getting cold and other infections.

While some older couples may worry that the efforts expended during sex could cause a stroke, scientists found frequency of sex was not associated with stroke; instead sex lowers blood pressure and overall stress reduction, having sex twice or more a week reduces the risk of fatal heart attack by half.

Having sex and orgasms increases levels of the hormone oxytocin, the love hormone. This helps bond couples and intensifies orgasm. Positioning a pillow or using pillows under your wife’s buttocks before you get going in missionary position makes many wives climax more intensely and faster. This is due to the fact that many women after one or two normal virginal deliveries lose sensitivities in the vaginal area because of the over stretching of the vaginal muscles. But when pillows are directly under the buttocks for support, the elevated buttocks help the husband to get to thrust in and out effectively.

This also helps the husband to really know when his wife is climaxing or getting to orgasm. The husband will feel that his wife is squeezing, releasing her PC muscles and simultaneously contracting her vaginal muscles and as this is happening, she is actually reaching her climatic level of orgasm. I always encourage that whenever the husband notices this, he should gently intensify the thrusting in a gently but deep manner; so keep doing it because she loves it so much!

Researchers evaluated few premenopausal women before and after warm contact with their husbands ending with hugs, affections, foreplay and romantic sex. They found that the more contact, the higher the oxytocin levels.

Sex is also a pain reliever; as the hormone oxytocin surges, endorphin increases, and pain declines. These chemicals calm pain, from a minor headache to arthritis or migraines, and with no secondary effects. So, if you are always complaining of a headache, arthritis pain, or PMS symptoms, some sure natural pills with no side effect and no financial constraint is sex.

Migraines also disappear because the pressure in the brain’s blood vessels is lowered while we have sex. So now we see that actually a woman’s headache is rather a good reason for having sex, not against it.

Such symptoms improve after sex, because of higher oxytocin levels. In fact, sex helps anyone to sleep better because the oxytocin released during orgasm also promotes sleep, according to research. And getting enough sleep has been linked with a host of other good things, such as maintaining a healthy weight and blood pressure.

Sex strengthens floor muscles for women, doing a few pelvic floor muscle exercises known as Kegels during sex offers lots of benefits. Married lovers will enjoy more pleasure and the woman will also strengthen the pelvic area which helps to minimise the risk of incontinence later in life. To do a basic Kegel exercise, all a woman has to do is tighten the muscles of her pelvic floor, as if one is trying to stop the flow of urine. Count to three, then release. Do these frequently and as often as you can.

Sex reduces prostate cancer risk. Frequent ejaculations may reduce the risk of prostate cancer later in life. Boosting self-esteem is one reason people have sex, but overweight men with big waist line are more likely to have poor semen quality. If you happen to fall within this category, remember that sex is a good workout. If you’re looking to burn more calories, have more sex.

Husband, knowing how to suck your wife’s breast moderately can increase her arousal, cause her to orgasm and prevent breast cancer. But scientists say until breast sucking is done in an erotic manner, some hormones that fight against cancer may not be released.

So, while starting off, use your hands to lightly outline the outer part of both breasts slowly; this will help her nipples to become erect. Use your lips to kiss around the outskirts of the breasts. Start kissing the outline with your moist lips slowly. Then lightly squeeze those breasts together and kiss down the middle. Making your way close to each nipple, and lightly blowing over them.

Take each nipple into your mouth and suck them. If her nipples are standing at erection, you can harden your tongue and flick it back and forth, and slowly take it into your mouth, at which point you will begin to suck and nibble simultaneously. But if her nipples are not hard, you can usually manipulate each one by sucking it and then releasing it from your mouth. If you can’t suck both together at the same time, suck one nipple, and lightly pinch the other with your thumb and index finger seductively.

Researchers estimated that your spouse’s healthy sexual fantasy assists the body’s muscular and cardiovascular system to function better. An erotic fantasy is a product of the imagination that arouses a sexual emotion. Fantasies are often summed up as erotic scenes, seen or imagined, which we enjoy replaying in our heads. Also fantasy can also be an idea, an impression or a feeling. Fantasies are not only sexual; they can be about any topic that awakens human desire and pleasure. But sexual fantasies are in direct contact with our psyche and therefore have such power of arousal.

They represent the fulfillment of subconscious sexual desires, through psychic processes. Erotic fantasies are created from scenes seen or experienced during adolescence or later in adult years and when channelled in a healthy way enhance the better function of the heart muscle and the general body muscular system. In fact, it can also aid a pregnant woman in child birth labour to have a faster delivery because it has an indirect effect on the vaginal wall, by allowing the vaginal smooth muscles to relax fast and expand better. But there is a note of warning here; research has found out that pregnant women who want to experience this type of easy virginal delivery should not ‘eat for two’. Pregnant women who eat for two and gain too much weight are at greater risk of having complications than those who stick to a healthy diet, even when they can fantasise well.

Many wives love to have sex with their spouse but most times, each beautiful address is truncated by the usually work load of a typical married woman. There are days when a man comes home desperate for rest after a day’s exhaustive work and wants to just hit the bed and sleep off. And there are other days when guys are as active as you can never imagine but there is no accompanying libido for a hot night. What do many couples do in such an instance? Many spouses just put up their best excuse forward and go on auto-pilot. The truth is if you do this often, you will blow your relationship that you have laboured to build over the years.

Listen to this: “When it comes to bedroom activities, my wife is good at giving all forms or shades of excuses just to avoid sex. As a matter of fact, giving excuses is what she does for a living,’ says Mr. Kadiri and the amazing response of the wife is, ‘Madam, if something is sweet, would you refuse to eat it even when you are tired?’

To avoid sexual excuses, it takes two to tangle; so let’s look into some of them and see how we can handle them for real. Your excuses may centre on the workload of activities because you have pending work to complete. Wife if you find yourself reaching out to the laundry basket or husband, you grab your computer just when your wife is trying her best to reach out to you, it’s time to stop this from becoming a pattern. Clearly, you are trying to avoid your spouse and if he or she fails to realise that today, he or she will definitely do so tomorrow. You can bust this excuse by just asking yourself an honest question: do I really need to complete this task now? Can it not be done at a later time?

If your phone takes your attention more than your partner does, put it out of the bedroom entirely. Or you are always bothered that the kids might walk in or call for attention; most parents do not engage in sex because of the fear of their kids walking in while they are at it. Even though, this excuse may be true initially, it eventually becomes a survival habit. But instead of destroying the good time you share together, you could have your friends or relatives take your kids over for a day or two. Remember that your relationship is as important as your kids and teaching them that you and your spouse need some private time now and then will teach them about boundaries and their importance early in life.

Many couples have destroyed their sex bed due to uncontrollable outburst of anger to an irrevocable limit. But I always tell couples that they will always find one thing or the other that will trouble their minds as far as their relationship is concerned, because the fellow we are married to will and may offend us often, if not daily. Now using anger as your stalling tactic can bring a lot of unwanted damage to your relationship. If you are resentful of every slight mistake and you allow it to be a sex weapon, just know that in a matter of time, you will hate that spouse, you will never see anything good in him or her. So, give room for weaknesses to grow into strength.

He wants to have sex, but you cannot because all you are thinking about is I am menstruating, you may really be having your periods, but if you use it a lot of times as a blanket of excuse, you could be building relationship problems with time. If you just cannot think about having sex when you are having periods, let your husband know and he will respect that. But, remember that you do not always have to have penetrative sexual encounter to perfect your intimacy levels, you could curdle, hug and smooch.

Many wives bluntly and proudly say this to me, ‘Madam, there is no point of having sex, I never get an orgasm anyway,’ not knowing that they are sending their husbands to search for sex outside their homes. Please note that your husband may not have experimented with all the moves to help you reach an orgasm but putting it out openly to him that there is no point of having sex for you, is like destroying his manly ego and also truncating all the possibilities of enjoying sex.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]