Tips on finding someone close to your ‘heart’ again
Elizabeth Badejo

Marriage is one of the most beautiful partnerships of all time, so desirable yet so vulnerable particularly when it is time to dissolve the bond regardless of how or why; it can become the best decision as well as the most terrifying one too.

Finding happiness and fulfillment again after a divorce or death of a partner can be made possible through nurturing the right attitude and finding love in the right places.

Do not set a time frame

Do not set a time frame for finding love again; it is not how long you have to wait but how you occupy your mind during the waiting time. You must learn to do things that make you happy as well as finding fulfillment in whatever you do.

Do not spend your time and energy desperately seeking for someone because you have been in solitude for a while. Instead, focus on loving yourself and the right man or woman will eventually come along.

Seek healing first

Breaking away from someone you have spent most of your life with can be very agonising and finding someone else to fill the vacuum without healing the wounds first can be more terrifying. Give yourself time and space to heal naturally and then move on afterwards.

When you are able to heal yourself back from the pains of the past and emerge with a vibrant new you, it is then that you can finally find someone close to your heart to love again.

Start afresh

There are different ways to make a fresh clean start as long as you pick the one that works for you. You can de-clutter your space, change your location or discover a new skill; whatever you do, you must understand the importance of moving on so that you can gain the strength and confidence you need to start afresh with someone close to your heart.

Learn from your mistakes

Situations like this bring sober reflections from the past which may have been filled with many regrets too. It is only when you are able to identify your past inadequacies in your previous marriage that you will be ready to identify the principles you need to find true love again.

Try as much as possible to avoid making references from your last marriage when communicating with people as you may be sending the wrong vibes to a prospective partner.

Let your hair down

You must not isolate yourself because you’re grieving. However, try to enjoy your freedom as it is not guaranteed to last forever. Open your arms to receive everyone who extends their hands of comfort especially if you are still grieving as many testimonies of love and great partnerships have come from revealing your heart and inviting love back in return.

Be flexible

If you set out looking for a new partner loaded with unreasonable expectations from your past marriage, you will be carrying a baggage of unresolved issues into your life. It is not unusual to put your searchlight on someone who has your ex-partner’s personality or one who is the complete opposite; so that gives you some form of relief and comfort. Nevertheless, being flexible would allow you to meet new people and get to appreciate their many different journeys too.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]