Most recent findings and discoveries about sex (2)
Funmi Akingbade

[email protected]

08034540594, 08156047309

A lady came to my office one day and she was in desperate need of big breasts and big butt which she considered essential for good sex. Many wives are so obsessed with how big their breasts and butt should be, because they have been made to believe that this helps a lot on the sex bed.

The society we live in has gradually over the years come to associate bigness with approval, pleasure and acceptance. The society believes that the bigger the house, or mansion, the elaborate the gatherings, the larger the get-togethers, the massive the events and celebrations the better and this same spirit has crept into our sexual preferences. The sexual preferences of many have motivated the high increase of artificial buttocks, breasts, penis and scrotum. The need for a bigger breast, larger buttock and bigger penis has driven many couples to making artificial enhancement a do or die affair.

There is no doubt that the centre of a man’s existence is his penis. To most men, penis size is a life contest and competition. A man with the big penis proudly displays and talks about it while the ones with the small size secretly envy all the days of their lives. The quest to measure up to the other man in term of bigness is the major reason many men unguardedly go for artificial penis and scrotum.

In fact, there is hardly any man who has not one way or the other compared the size of his penis to other men while growing up, and the result of this comparison leads either to a proud smile or to a sense of inadequacy, which always stays with them for a lifetime. Most times, many men worry and wonder if they are ever going to measure up, so they end up trying out artificial penis and scrotum balloon.

It is so bad that many do not like to dress up in the presence of their friends or even venture to get married because there is always that moment of anxiety when they wonder if they would not be mocked or rejected. Quite a number of young adult even result to masturbation just to see if the practice will at least elongate the penis size. Ironically, this act does not only make such young men to become addictive to masturbation, it further kills the strength and stamina of ejaculation.

Perhaps the anxiety begins in boyhood when, all too often, the first unforgettable penis comparison happens with a much bigger one-a father’s or older brother’s, or a discussion where attractive women openly state their preferences for well-endowed men, so at the root of many men, self-worth is how he feels about the size of his penis and what he thinks about its ability to please his wife.

It is no doubt that a man’s penis is tied to a sense of his virility and the powerful penis is considered masculinity’s, but it is very important to bear in mind that the average human penis is about eight-plus inches, although some wives have told me that their husband’s sizes were not something they remembered except for those penises outside the extreme average range. Nonetheless, these wives place more interest on their marital relationship than the size of their husband’s penis, while higher percentage of ladies both single and married still insist bigger ones are lovely bonuses to the relationship.

From research, the percentage of ladies that prefer bigger penis seems to be 70 per cent in comparison to 30 per cent of those ladies who are indifferent. And if this be the case, the struggle for artificial penis and scrotum may not be necessarily needful if the less endowed smartly put it to good use. At the end of the whole thing, it is actually the overall performance of the penis that really overrules the size of the penis. It is not all about size but technicality. Although there are natural enhancers available that will greatly assist the exceptionally small sized men, care must be taken to make sure a sex therapist is involved.

The breast and buttock of a lady undeniably are a source of sensuality for both admirers and owners alike. As a matter of fact, nobody can deny the beauty of a woman’s breasts and buttocks. A woman’s breasts and buttock are as important to her as a man’s penis and prowess are. And they seem to drive men, of all ages, wild with fantasy and desire. 70 per cent of men from all lifestyles are drawn to an impressive cleavage and big buttock and many say they prefer large breasts and big butt. For many men, large breasts and well-defined bigger hips are indicative of high sex hormone levels and are therefore a symbol of good sexual arousal, and a good indicator of a solid and secure accommodation for the penis during the stage of vigorous thrusting in and out. And also, a steady support for the man to firmly grip onto while at the pick of ejaculation or orgasm.

This has been the reason majority of men seem to be drawn to a huge butt and bigger breasts like a magnet; and some literally love to venerate them. But oddly enough, it does not necessarily mean that all big breasts and massive butt are equally responsive even though they may be seductive. Large breasts or butt are not necessarily the most sensitive and assertive parts of some women’s sexuality and sometimes smaller breasts and butt can be explosively seductive, indescribably appealing and tempting.

Because a big butt and breasts have always been objects of desire while most men freely admit to loving and preferring them; many ladies are under undue pressure to artificially make it bigger by all means. One crucial point is very important and that is, there is nothing as satisfying as a sense of complete self-acceptance; this helps individual to enhance the beauty of his or her physical features.

Many husbands have asked me why their pubic hair in their pubic region grows thicker the more they shave, should the pubic hair be left un-shaved? The truth of the matter is that the size and shape of our hair follicles determine the thickness and texture of our hair — whether it is thick and coarse or thin and fine, whether they are in the pubic region, armpit region, or in the face. The hair may appear coarser, but shaving doesn’t change the follicle, so frequent shaving won’t make your pubic hair thicker and coarse rather leaving it unkempt may accelerate germ incubation and spread of infection.

Some months ago, I admonished wives in their early 30s and 40s to go for pap smear at least once in a year just to be on the safe side of life and this has raised many questions from various quarters from many wives. The most outstanding of the questions is, ‘can I have sex and still go for pap smear? The answer is NO!

Although the pap smear has improved over the years, the basic technology still involves the analysis of individual cells under the microscope. Semen can make the pap smear less sensitive, so sex should be avoided the night before you are scheduled for such.

Questions!!! Answers!!!

I need your candid opinion

As a born-again Christian, I have vowed not to have sex with any woman before marriage, but I had been in relationships before my conversion into Christianity that involved sex and I discovered I have a very high libido for sex, I can go four rounds at a go. And from my past experiences, I know a woman’s clitoris is a tool/key to her getting good orgasm.

Recently whem my fiancée and I were talking, she told me she was circumcised which means she has no clitoris. This is our fifth year of dating without having sex. Of course, I would have discovered that if we had been having sex.

My heart throbbing questions now are, what can I do when we get married? Can she enjoy sex like a woman with clitoris? Won’t she see my sexual advances to her as mere disturbance since she would not get sexually aroused easily like any other normal woman? Does it mean I have to initiate sex all the time since she will not be sensitive to a man’s desire for sex like an uncircumcised lady will do? Can she ever have orgasm without clitoris? What sexual position can I use with her? Is there available surgical operation we can engage in to correct the genital mutilation? Or should I just get another woman and forget about her? I don’t want a troubled marriage, please help me. I don’t know what to do, this is my second or third time of writing you ma. I don’t mind if you reply me via my mail or through publication.

About to wed

Let me start by saying that when a lady is circumcised, it is not an indication that such a lady will not enjoy sex. The following are the reasons:

One, ladies differ in response to sexual stimulation and arousal either circumcised or not (due to their temperament, exposure, information, age and mindset).

Two, the circumcisions many ladies go through are in degrees and in levels. The sexual stimulation and response of a lady with first degree circumcision will not be the same with a lady who has second or third-degree circumcision. You need to find out the degree of her circumcision. This will help prepare you for ways to help out.

Thirdly, sexual arousal of a lady is not triggered more or most because she has a clitoris or not (as a matter of fact, there are ladies born without the clitoris due to some congenital abnormalities). The stimulation of the clitoris is just one of the ways which some ladies can get real stimulated or aroused. Some ladies get aroused by mere ‘fingering’ with or without the clitoris stimulated, while others can get stimulated just by caressing the breast and sucking on the nipples for a longer time. This also can lead them to great arousal with or without the clitoris. There are also some ladies who can get aroused by just caressing any part of their body and when either of the parts of the body is caressed long enough to get the job done. The most important aspect that gets any lady in the mood is a loving disposition from the husband; when he is loving, caring, understanding, gentle and accommodating. These attributes are the best trigger for any lady. For you to be thinking of calling off a relationship of five years after all you both have invested into it just because of an organ, the clitoris, is not a good way of viewing the matter. I would rather you explore and discover other areas (when married) in which she can get arousal and love to have sex more than thinking of calling off the relationship.

Getting married in two weeks’ time

Are there things I should watch out for that could destroy our sex life? I am really really set out for the best of sex with my husband-to-be, but someone said I should watch out for sex-drive killers, that I will soon be hindered by marriage sex-drive killers. She said many set out like me but ended up being hindered by this monster. What are marriage-sex-killers?

About to wed

Marriage sex-drive killers are just situations, circumstances, challenges and health issues that hinder a good sex life between married lovers. They come in various shapes and sizes and destroy their sex life and sometimes the entire marriage union.

For instance, lack of closeness, having sex with your spouse just because you have to do it and not being close can kill desire. Intimacy is more than just sex. To prevent this, try spending more non-sexual time together, just the two of you. Talk, snuggle, trade massages. Find ways to express love without having sex. Getting closer can rebuild your sex drive.

Another one is having kids, although parents to be do not lose sex drive once the woman is pregnant. However, you do lose some time to be close with kids. To prevent this maybe, you should hire a babysitter just to give room for both of you to nurture some time to be lovers as well as parents; you can try sex during baby’s nap time.

One other way that many wives destroy their sex drive is when they are obsessed with how they look when they don’t have their make up on, when they are obsessed with poor body image. Feeling sexy is easier if you like how you look. Work on accepting your body as it is today, even if you’re working to get in shape. Feeling good about yourself can put you in the mood. For many women, sex drive dims around menopause. That’s partly about symptoms such as vaginal dryness and pain during sex. But every woman is different and it’s possible to have a great sex life after menopause by tending to your relationship, self-esteem, and overall health.

Is there a standard size for the vagina?

I am just curious to ask if there is a standard size for the vagina. Each time I look into my wife’s vagina, it never fails to impress me what a wonder is this organ called the vagina.

Martins

Hi Martins, just like there is no standard size for penis, there is no standard size for the vagina. The vagina of every lady comes in different sizes, the difference in size is as a result of gene, geographical location, race, body weight and mass and many other factors. Actually, there’s no such thing as a “normal” vagina. From the vulva to the labia, they come in all shapes and sizes. Not all lady accessories organs are created equal. In fact, some clitoris may be a little closer to or farther from the vaginal opening. A brand-new study found that women whose clitorises were farther away from the vaginal opening were more likely to have trouble orgasming (probably due to decreased stimulation). But one thing is common to all vaginas; they actually expand during sex. Ever wonder how it can seem pretty shallow when your wife is putting in a tampon but can also accommodate even a well-endowed penis? It’s called vaginal tenting, and it’s when the inner two-thirds of the vagina increase in length and width when the lady is aroused. Seriously, vaginas never fail to impress most husbands.

My wife wants sex close to her cycle

I have noticed that the only times my wife usually asks for sex is when she is close to her cycle or when she is menstruating. I do not like sex during menstruation but most times, that seems to be the most available times.

Otaruhi Oxford

Actually, women think more about sex when most fertile; this may be the reason for such acts.

Women experience more sexual fantasies during the fertile times of the month and this is the period when they are either ovulating or shortly after ovulation; sometimes close to their menstruation time. In addition to these, women get more aroused in the fantasies in comparison to men. They experience more sexual fantasies during their ovulation than the rest of the month.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]