Tips on how to manage grief in a step-parent family
Elizabeth Badejo

[email protected]

www.stringmynaijawedding.com …08097360766

There are many twists to the increasing ratio of the step family settings and one of the most prevalent causes is ‘death’. When a spouse passes away during the formative years of a marriage, leaving young children behind; it can be catastrophic and life changing for the family as a whole.

On the other hand, after the bereavement, there are very tough decisions you have to take and planning for the wellbeing of your young children should be your uttermost priority. More men than women who find themselves in this situation are more likely to settle into marriage again soon, perhaps in the interest of the children in order to fill the emptiness left behind.

As a step mother, caring for the children left devastated by the loss of a parent can be extremely tough but when love is not compromised, you can all begin to enjoy a great step family relationship.

Do not undermine their grief

Understand their emotions and respect their grief as each child grieves in his/her own way and coming into their lives may not make much difference to them now but with patience and perseverance entwined in love, you can help them heal better and faster. At the same time, you must also learn to recognise your partner’s feelings so that you are able to help him manage his pains too.

Respect their solitude

Grief is an internal process and losing a parent at a young age can be very traumatising which can also bring a sense of loneliness. Space is significant especially at this time if they refuse to acknowledge your presence and support; it is important to respect their solitude and lend your hand from a distance until they finally come around.

SHARE YOUR TIME WELL WITH LOVE

Your role as a step mother will be very challenging at first but overtime, you will develop your own strategy to help you cope. Sharing your time well between the children and your spouse is vital and not allowing one aspect to relegate the other aside is also important.

Although your spouse’s intention to remarry again may be for the benefit of his children in the first instance; nonetheless the real essence of a great step family relationship is to love and care for everyone so that you can also receive lots of love in return too.

Facilitate family relationships

Your step children may want to seek comfort from their deceased parent’s family especially if they have always enjoyed a great relationship with them. Encourage them to continue to enjoy the love they have built and also try and get to know the family too so that you can both find ways to support the children and also extend your relationship beyond the present.

Help them keep the memories alive

The key to untangle the challenges in most step family relationship is good communication and sincerity. Step into your role with openness and the will to make a difference in an already complex situation; support the children by keeping the fondest memories of their loss in the best way possible.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]