It’s more exciting when the children are involved
Elizabeth Badejo

[email protected]

www.stringmynaijawedding.com …08097360766

Life, they say, is a continuous process of adjustments and only death can truly put an end to that course of action. But in a twinkle of an eye, hopes can be dashed when the man or woman you vowed to spend your life with is no longer the person you once knew. Inasmuch as separations and divorces have become prevalent in modern society, making it easier for the effected couples to move on, however the drastic changes can be devastating for the children of the marriages as a whole.

Prepare them ahead

When you decide to take the bold steps and start a new commitment, it is not just about you alone this time; it is also about your children and your partner’s children who you are bringing into your new relationship. When a new family is being initiated, children are the fundamental part of the unit and should be protected so that they can feel safe and secure with their new parents and families.

Prepare your children for the new changes ahead and allow them to express their own feelings too; but it is also important for them to know that your new marriage will not change your love and feelings for them.

Carry them along

The excitement about walking down the aisle again may never be completely fulfilled without your children’s involvement. Just like it was important to get your parents’ blessings when you married for the very first time, it will also be in your best interest to carry your children along and seek their own ‘blessing’ in their own way too irrespective of their ages or level of acceptance of the new changes.

A feeling of fear and rejection will be replaced by courage and excitement to give you both an opportunity to start a fruitful relationship without excluding the children. Learn to separate their feelings from your own expectations of them, respect their decisions and let them know you will always be there for them come what may.

Get them on board

Including your children in the marriage ceremony will certainly make them feel honoured and special and this will set the structure for a new life together as a family. However you plan to celebrate your wedding, you should always find the perfect roles for your children to play their parts on your big day.

You may also look at the possibilities of getting the younger ones busy by assisting you in picking your small wedding details such as your colours, flowers, invitations and their own outfits. Take them to your dress fittings and focus their attention on the excitement especially if they are feeling uncomfortable and apprehensive about the whole wedding process.

You and your partner can also create a special family vow to be read to your children immediately after your own vow promising to love and care for all your children and to strengthen your new family units together as one.

Notes

A second marriage where children are involved is about building two relationships in one and ensuring that one does not consume the other; but when you take the focus away from yourselves alone, you will always remember that the decision you make today affects the lives of others, especially your children.

ALL THE BEST!!

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]