Steps to achieve an enviable sex (II)
Funmi Akingbade

[email protected]

08034540594

Then couples must appreciate the fact that setting a mood with joyful interest is the backbone of being intimately romantic and creating exciting and stimulating variety in couple’s love life. So therefore, couples have to get ready mentally; this refers to the importance of using your mind and will to fantasise about sex, many times couples’ sex life dies gradually because they do not like to brood on sex matters as any other life’s issues, but that is one of the greatest errors couples make.

For example, during a busy day, you should stop and think about sex and allow yourself to feel sexual and ready for unrestrained and breathtaking action. However, thinking about sex doesn’t mean playing pornographic scenarios in your mind over and over again. You should fantasise about your partner and set goals about what you’d want sex to be the next time you’ll have it.

Then you have to be there emotionally; this means creating an atmosphere in which you can be rested, excited, and warmly intimate. Good sex is based on an emotional mood and atmosphere. It involves enjoying adventure, being stress-free, and feeling in love enough to focus on your sexual feelings. Great lovemaking is more about who you are rather than simply what you do; in fact this is the most bonding part of sex, and the memories are everlasting.

Don’t forget to create a perfect intimate ambiance by altering your surroundings. It involves creating an environment that enhances and stimulates sexual arousal and meaningful, exciting interaction. Unlimited ideas abound in this domain; all you have to do is choose what best suits you. My advice: create a romantic ambiance by putting to work all your five senses. It’s nothing short of simple!

An average husband loves to see his wife’s naked body. Please wives, don’t take this aspect for granted; look your best while naked and most especially when going to bed and not the other way around. Many wives look ‘take away’ when going on outings and look like a grandma at home. Of course, the man will look elsewhere! Let him enjoy the visual aspect of lovemaking in numerous other ways, by you putting on some seductive sexy, spicy colour underwear.

Flickering lightings give ambiance and a pleasant scent, you may do this by leaving the bathroom door half open; this may give just enough light to feel less exposed but visually connected, because most wives are not the strongest supporters of sex with the lights on. The partially closed bathroom door is often more erotically stimulating, peaceful, reassuring and thrilling than the fully exposed and harsh bedroom light. The use of mirrors is an excellent idea; I always advocate that couples should make sure that their bedroom is surrounded with mirror since researchers have discovered that men are fond of watching what they are doing while in the very act. So, make the bedroom aesthetically appealing to the eyes.

The idea here is that you’re both by yourselves and okay with what is happening in the bedroom. Be open and playful. Go slowly. Setting the mood is not just something you want to get over with as quickly as you can, to move on to the main event. Tease and revel in your sexual feelings that arise from the visual stimulation. And know that though I am talking about visual stimulation, how about you stimulating yourself by dressing up your wife?

This would get you in the mood in an instant! Buy her a set of sexy lingerie of your choice; have her seductively flaunt in it in front of you, as well as her naked breasts and buttocks.

Scents are an exciting part of creating sensual mood; the way the human mind is made is to connect sensations such as the smell of perfume to erotic arousal and experiences. A spouse’s odour or perfume affects the total sexuality packaging of a partner and may enhance or impair a partner’s judgment of his or her spouse’s sexual stimulation and interest.

Just a scent of a good perfume and one feels more in love and becomes quickly aroused. The sense of smell is extremely powerful, so don’t hesitate to shave your armpit hair, shape and trim your pubic hair. And use a good deodorant and also use all sorts of candles, incense, and scented lotions as props to add sensual pleasure to the act of succulent and juicy lovemaking. Use them to treat your partner with a nice massage, stroking and caressing his or her body until both of you get fervently turned on without reservation.

Taste is not always associated with creating sexual moods, but it is a stimulating form of sexuality. The mouth, tongue, and lips are erogenous zones with many nerve endings and particular sensuality about them.

Lingering over a sumptuous meal is a very good sexual experience. Childlike chatting and conversations while having dinner or drinking a bottle of wine is a great mood setter, in the privacy of your bedroom, feeding each other food and placing favourite tasty kisses in strategic body region can be very erotic. When this is spiced up with a blazing blow job, no spouse will resist such enriching experience combination.

Soft music with nude dancing makes lovemaking more intimate than ever. Don’t neglect to employ a wide variety of sensual touching experience. Most spouses hate to be stimulated in the same way, same spot and same manner. Husbands, try gently caressing your wife’s sensitive inner thighs and clitoris while watching closely the way her body responds to it.

Try lightly blowing hot air over her chest, stomach or genital area. Also, breathing gently into her ear can be profoundly erotic. Wives, try materialising your husband’s fantasies and watch them glow like new born babies. Remember creating the most awesome, tingling, hot sexy atmosphere is simply being creative, from transforming the smell of the bed-sheets to the wonderful sensation of hands caressing your spouse’s body, and good kisses that bring out euphoric moaning produced by a satisfying climaxing and how you both cuddle in silence after the deed is done.

So often, the key to enviable sex may not be as a result of penis size, stamina records, or a technical isolation of the G-spot, good foreplay and so on. Rather, it should also be about understanding oneself and one’s partner’s desires and recognising that, real couples are not born with a perfect, divinely granted understanding of sex and sexuality but are made and we all get better by the day.

Losing interest in sex may not be as common an occurrence for men as it is for women. When men lose interest in sex, it scares them more than women. It affects about 15, 16 per cent of men and the statistics doubles or sometimes increases three times in women. Loss of libido bothers men more and makes them unhappy about the rest of their lives than it does women. Only 23 per cent of men with loss of libido say they still feel very happy about life in general versus 46 per cent of women.

Their masculinity is so linked to their sexuality that it is very threatening. From statistics, men do not like to talk about it; neither do their wives. However, loss of libido in men or inhibited sexual desire stresses a marriage more than any other sexual dysfunction. It can be embarrassing to talk about one’s sex life and get back to being intimate with one’s spouse. Loss of libido is not something men have to live with. There are so much one can do to regain a good sex drive and have a happy outlook on life. In fact, sex therapists can pinpoint the source of the problem and may recommend lifestyle interventions.

So many times, men are not even aware that they have problem with loss of libido until we get talking in my office or while counselling them over the phone. I usually ask them the question; how do you know if you have problem with loss of libido?

Libido loss does not usually happen suddenly; it is not like catching a cold and you start sneezing or coughing. Though difficult to define precisely, loss of libido is a lack of interest in sex for several months. Frequency of sexual activity is not the best measure of sexual interest, because so many circumstances can get in the way of an encounter, even if the desire is there.

However, if you are married and having sex less often than the norm- maybe once a week, you might ask yourself whether you are happy with things as they are.

If you are not happy about your loss of libido, researchers agree that it is best to tackle these issues before they become deep-rooted. To help identify the early warning signs, see whether you answer the following questions true or false:

Touching takes place only in the bedroom [many African traditional oriented couples find this difficult to answer but touching should be done anywhere anytime] Sex does not give you feelings of connection and sharing. One of you is always the initiator and the other feels pressured. You no longer look forward to sex. Sex is mechanical and routine. You almost never have sexual thoughts or fantasies about your spouse for ages. You have sex once or twice a month at most.

If you answered true to many or most of these questions, you may be on your way to losing sexual desire. Understanding the various causes is the first step to finding the appropriate solution. So today, we shall be looking at systematic programme to rekindle sexual desire in low-sex and no-sex marriage relationship.

The brain is an often-overlooked erogenous zone. Sexual excitement starts in your head and works its way down. Sadness, hopelessness and dejection can dampen spouse’s desire and can lead to erectile dysfunction.

Many husbands confided in me that most times they consider having a few drinks to get in the mood, which may not be a bad idea at all but where I have problem is one, which brand of alcohol are you consuming? Two, what quantity are you consuming? If you are not taking healthy alcohol, for example, real red wine that is good for the heart, your whole body and your sexual activities may be in danger of overloading synthetic brews.

Questions!!! Answer!!!

My wife hardly makes first move

Whenever we make love, my wife seems to enjoy it as much as I do. However, she hardly makes the first move. I told her that I would like her to do so, occasionally and she accepted. Still, she did not change. Why is she like this and how can I make her do what I want?

Idowu Lekeyomba

This type of complaint is common among married couples. The average Nigerian male thinks about sex several times in a day. Such frequent sexual thoughts may eventually compel him to have sex with his wife. This is how God made men. Whether it is a sport car or practical automobile, the vehicle for your sex life is typically on the drive mode. Your wife on the other hand, is not ‘sexually wired’ the same way. Most women are in the neutral mode. They are not opposed to sex; they just need to be properly stimulated to get them moving.

Once you initiate sex and she is receptive, both of you will move forward. Frequently, about 10 minutes into foreplay, a woman begins to be aroused, enjoy herself, and becomes aware of her desire for sex. Therefore, she is being honest when she expresses her enjoyment and desire. She does not think about sex until you initiate or bring up the subject. While she might agree that, she ‘should’ initiate sex or is willing to do so occasionally, it is difficult to get her in the mood when she is not having sexual thoughts.

Make sure you are not missing her promptings. Many couples do not agree as to how to initiate lovemaking or what actually constitutes an initiation, so they miss each other’s signals. Women typically initiate sex in more subtle forms. Your wife’s initiation might be as subtle as taking a shower after work. Make sure you talk about how she prefers to let you know she is in the mood.

My husband says he feels attracted to muscular men

My husband of sixteen years recently confessed to me that he slept with a homosexual whom he met while hunting for a job on Victoria Island, Lagos. I was shocked and devastated. He said he loves me and still finds me sexually attractive, but that he feels attracted to muscular, confident men with cute faces. Although he begged me to help him, I feel insecure and betrayed. Is there any hope for us?

Ebisidor Maliju

If you are a little patient and you show him love and understanding, you will be able to get him out of this problem. Find out how long this ‘type’ of thing has been going on and the level of his involvement. Then try to find out where both of you can go for counselling and spiritual help. He needs deliverance.

My husband very poor in hygiene

My husband hardly bathes before we make love. Besides, his breath is always terrible and his fingernails are dirty. How can I get him to take care of himself so that we both can enjoy sex together?

George Dehinde

From documented research, over two thousand women were asked what they liked least about sex, the fifth most common answer was ‘how my husband smells.’ That sad reality means you are not alone. Try clearly, calmly and firmly expressing your desire. ‘I want to touch and make love to you, but when you do not shower, clean your finger nails, or brush your teeth, you send me a message that you do not care about me or want to please me. I know that is not your heart, I know you want our lovemaking to be wonderful and exciting. So, I am going to wait for you to do those things. I would not associate pain [emotional, olfactory] with having sex with you, which could hamper my desire and possibly cause me to withdraw from sex.’ Then wait and see what happens.

Why do I get tired when I have my period?

Mrs. Chuks Beatrice

Feeling exhausted during menstruation is a normal result of the plunge in the hormone oestrogen that occurs during this point in your cycle. Your energy level should return within a few days, when oestrogen levels start increasing again.

However, if the fatigue lasts longer than that or by tired you mean that you are totally wiped out all week, there is probably another cause. You may be suffering from iron-deficiency anaemia, especially if you have very heavy periods.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]