Ways to spice up your relationship
There are times when you realise that your relationship has become boring and the love you and your partner once shared turned cold. Here are a few tips to spice things up

Leave notes around

According to theeverygirl.com, whether it’s putting a note in your partner’s pocket to read before a huge presentation or sticking one on the bathroom mirror to start his or her morning, stay spontaneous by leaving your heartfelt messages for them to find as they go about their everyday lives. As a society that revolves around technology, spending the extra time to write will touch your partner and ignite your romance.

Understand each other’s hobbies

The act of supporting your partner in the things they love is sweet but the attempt to learn more about what they love is key. Along with doing what your partner love, starting up a conversation about their performance and strategy is the kind of initiation that will have both of you seeing each other in a new light. While you don’t have to go out and study random facts about your partner’s interests, the gesture of even knowing enough about it to bond over is one that won’t go unnoticed.

Minimise the use of technology

Our phones are our best friends and our worst distractions especially when it comes to interacting with our partners. There’s nothing more impersonal than telling your partner about your day only to have him or her responds by occasionally looking up from scrolling through the phone. To avoid this, make it a goal to detach from technology when trying to spend personal time together. Even though this sounds like a small action, it’s one that will ignite the large connection that you may have felt was fading.

Surprise each other

There’s a reason why sending a bouquet of flowers or chocolates to your loved ones is known to be a classic romantic act. It’s sophisticated and thoughtful. Surprising your partner with concert or movie tickets are other nice ways to spice things up. In the end, you will know what your partner loves best and now it’s time to show it.

Revisit the places you both used to love

Even though you can’t live in the past, you can act like it. Turn back the hand of time by dressing up for dinner and going to a restaurant as if you are on a first date together. Revisiting a place that means something to your relationship will not only bring back the nostalgia of the old days, but remind you that those feelings are still alive.

Get intimate again

It is true when we say that actions are greater than words. In order to feel that honeymoon phase with your partner again, make sure to find ways to touch your partner throughout the day. By engaging in intimate moments such as holding hands while walking or snuggling while talking in bed, you will reinforce to your partner how you feel and also feel loved in return.

Spend time apart

Sometimes we don’t recognise how much we care about people until we miss them. The truth is that it is much harder to appreciate someone when you are constantly around them.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]