Who owns the woman’s money in marriage?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Marriage is the union between a man and a woman who have come together to become one and start a family. In some homes, some women work while some are housewives. For the working class, there is usually a controversy in the social sphere over who owns the woman’s money in a home. Saturday PUNCH asked some men and women about their opinion on who owns the woman’s money in a home

Two shall become one, so they should share everything – Kash A Philemon

From the Biblical point of view, precisely Genesis chapter 2 verse 19 to the end, in this chapter of the Bible, you will discover that when God created man- Adam, God discovered that there was a missing link in man that was not complete; and God caused man a deep sleep to remove one of his ribs and he created a woman. When Adam saw Eve, he said this is the bone of my bone and the flesh of my flesh I shall call her a woman. In the Bible also, God said a man shall leave his mother and his father and cleave to his wife to become one flesh; so man and woman are supposed to be soul mates. So whatever belongs to a man belongs to his wife and vice-versa. So a woman should not say what she has is for herself only; it is supposed to be for the family. You cannot see a man suffering and his wife has money; and she will keep the money to herself and not release it; that is not right in the sight of God. If they are actually one flesh, then they should share everything they have.

A woman’s money is her money, my money is for the family – Muhammed Saleh

According to my religion and culture, a woman’s money is her money but my own money is for the family. But if she likes, she can give me out of her salary. It is a thing of choice; it is not compulsory for her to give me part of her money. If she feels obligated to do that, then it will be appreciated but I cannot tell my wife to touch her money for any reason. If she has to touch it, then it has to be a voluntary action. I believe it is very important to follow the precepts of culture and tradition in marriage.

It is not compulsory for a woman to share her money – Ghazali Abdulhammed

It is the woman’s money, according to Islamic shariah; men are in the position to take care of their women in marriage. Once a man marries a woman, he takes full responsibility for her upkeep, from her feeding, clothing, housing and everything. If she decides to take out of her money for housekeeping, it is out of her own volition; it is not compulsory at all. If the woman decides to work and earn money on her own, she is allowed to keep her money and spend it as she likes. A man should not have any business with his wife’s money – Dr Abdul Aziz Ibrahim

Two things are involved here, I will explain from the tradition and religious perspective. Traditionally, in the African setting, when you marry a woman, you marry her to clothe her, feed her and do everything for her. Whatever she does by the side and she earns money from it, is supposed to be her own money. If she feels like contributing to the welfare of the home, then she can but the main responsibility of a man to his wife is to do everything for her; he doesn’t have to look at her own money at all. Her money is not the husband’s money. My reason is that the man went to ask for her hand in marriage from her parents because he feels that he can take care of her fully. I don’t have any business with my wife’s money. I am obligated to feed, clothe and train her; in fact to do everything for her. When a man can not contribute to his family, then he is a lazy and useless man. Also my religion says that a man is fully and absolutely responsible for taking care of his wife after marriage.

A woman is free to do whatever she wants with her money – Faysal Tejumola

First of all, she made her money, it is her sweat. She has every right to do whatever she wants to do with it because it is hers. The woman was created to be a helper; however these days, some women even earn more than their husbands as against the past when women used to be full housewives. The woman is a weaker vessel, so if she is earning money, then she is free to do whatever she wants with it.

As Christians, a couple should share everything together – Ifeoma Ibeh

In a marriage, the woman’s money belongs to the woman. But in Christianity, husbands and wives are seen as one, so whatever belongs to the man belongs to the woman and vice versa. I am a Christian and I run my home based on the dictates of the Bible as regards marriage. God is the author of marriage, so if God says two shall become one; it means that the man and the woman are supposed to own everything together in marriage.

Her money is for both the man and the woman – Adedokun Aderonke Funmilayo

Money is the root of all evil, so one of the holy books says. Money in marriage is critical if I may say. Marriage is the legal or formal union of two people as partners in a relationship. The word union connotes unity. So in my opinion, money should not separate a couple. Both the man and the woman should see each other’s possession as one. The woman’s money is for both the man and the woman. Vice versa. For example if the woman owns a business, the man should have access to funds from the business with the consent of the wife.

The woman can contribute to the family – Aghadiuno Ngozi

Well, this isn’t based on feminism or anything, it is clear logic. The woman’s money is hers just as the man’s money is his. That being said, the woman has her responsibilities to cater for her children and her husband, so she can contribute financially in areas she can handle instead of leaving everything for the man.

Both of them own the money – Yetunde Salvador

When there is cooperation and understanding in a marriage, husband and wife can share what they have together as a couple. Our upbringing influences how we behave sometimes. If the man or the woman watched their parents share everything they have in marriage, then it will be easy for them to follow suit.

The couple should spend her money together – Taiwo Akinnawo

For me, I believe it’s both of them because the Bible says in marriage, two shall become one; although traditionally and in the olden days, the man is the sole provider in the home. I am of the opinion that as a Christian, both parties are in it together and the money should be spent together. It goes a long way and it shows commitment and yields trust in the marriage.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]