The twists & turns of managing your step-family
Elizabeth Badejo

Taking the bold decisions to get married again and have your children live together as one big happy family can become a far cry from your own expectations as parents. The reality of starting a new blended family can be so daunting sometimes that not even your combined parental skills could have prepared you for this new experience. As beautiful as it can seem to find love again, the twist and turns of managing the children involved after your marriage can be a complicated affair too.

When divorce is an act of vengeance

When divorce becomes toxic even after you have both moved on, it can become a red flag for your children. Seeking divorce as an act of vengeance in your marriage can complicate your second marriage if you or your spouses are still living a life of retribution. Many couples who find themselves in this situation are often blindfolded by the truth that children do not divorce their parents even when their parents make the decision to move on and this realism is so difficult for many parents to comprehend especially if they are still living in the shadows of their pasts.

When you lack self- control

The truth is that step parents are very special people because they have to manage the emotions of vulnerable children. When you lack self control as an adult, it will be extremely difficult for you to weather the storms of this new role and you will need a great deal of determination and emotional intelligence to overcome the complications of dealing with your step children, young and old.

Unfortunately, many homes have been destroyed and children subjected to neglect and emotional abuses by step parents who simply see them as inconvenience.

When changes becomes invasive

One of biggest challenges of a step family relationship is change and this can affect both sides coming together to live as one. When you and your children move into a house built by your new spouse, your children may feel like guests initially and find it very difficult to settle in. On the other hand, your spouse’s children may also feel like the landlords looking down on your ‘invasive’ children coming to intrude on their comfort zone.

When favourism sets your children apart

Alienating your own children from your step children can create disparity amongst the children making yours more privileged than the others. Your action may be borne out of your affection towards your own children but such act is unacceptable in a blended family setting and detrimental to the stability of the family as a whole.

When discipline becomes a conflict

Disciplining your stepchildren may not go down well with your spouse if they have never set boundaries for their own children in their previous marriage. As feeble as this may sound, it can threaten your relationship if you are an obtrusive parent who believes in discipline and consequences too.

Notes

As parents, you already know how difficult it is to raise children; however you will make your new role impossible to achieve if you are unprepared for the new challenges ahead.

Your first responsibility as step parents is to establish a good relationship with your stepchildren and build a bridge that will connect all your children together irrespective of their past experiences.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]