Avoid moral sentiments as you walk down the aisle
Elizabeth Badejo

Walking a bride down the aisle is not just another wedding tradition, it is an emotional, classical brief moment in a bride’s life and whom she plans to take those steps forward with is very significant; especially when growing up hasn’t always been peaches and cream.

This is an occasion when a girl really needs her father to be her rock and help her push through this exciting and tense moment; but when her biological father is not a crystal-clear option, taking the bold steps in the right direction is very critical to the overall success of her day.

Avoid sentiments

The issue of the aisle can bring moral sentiments and you begin to wonder if you are making the right decision or just trying to please other people who may necessarily not understand your feelings at present. Avoid sentiments and be true to yourself now more than ever, remember that your marriage is about you and your spouse and it’s important that you make the day memorable for yourselves first and for others after.

A mother’s place

If your mother’s role in your life has been beyond measures; there is no other way to appreciate her sacrifices more than granting her first the privilege to walk you down the aisle.

If she is a conventional mother who prefers to transfer her role to a man, she may decide to ask her husband, her son or a respectable uncle to play her role; as long as they have all been an important part of your life and you are happy for her to make that decision too.

A step father

Even though your step father may not be your biological father, he may have played a fatherly role in your life, supported and guided you and made up for your father’s absence. There is no greater joy than having the privilege of raising a step daughter into the woman you have become and walking you down the aisle on one of the most beautiful days in your life. Let him continue to hold your hands in his heart now that you are about to embark on this beautiful journey.

Down the aisle alone

Ultimately if you are not at ease with the idea of having anyone else walk you down the aisle, you can certainly walk down yourself to meet your spouse if that symbolises your core values as well as your independence. Remember that it is your own fairytale moment and who is best to relive it better than you especially if you cannot think of anyone else you can trust to play the part.

Some people may tell you that it is absurd; others will accuse you of being westernized. The truth is that this tradition isn’t cast in stone, especially if you are doing it for your own peace of mind.

Notes

Ultimately, it is not just about the aisle but about your personal feelings that are tied to this life-changing experience. So if you truly love your spouse, do not allow the issue of the aisle cast a shadow over your beautiful day.

Make it a memorable moment for a bride if you are asked to accompany her down the aisle, it is certainly an honour only reserved for those who truly deserve it.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]