How men can increase sperm count and boost fertility
Jesusegun Alagbe

For the first five years after his marriage, Ben Jaiyeoba was under immense pressure from his family to marry another woman, simply because his union with his wife, Funmi, had not produced any child.

“I repeatedly told my parents, particularly my mother, that I couldn’t marry another woman, that Funmi was okay for me. There was no way I would betray her trust because we didn’t have a child,” he told Saturday PUNCH.

“But my mother was very persuasive; she said she wanted to carry her firstborn’s child in her lifetime. She suggested that I should come to our village in Ogun State where I could get ‘already children-laden’ ladies.”

But little did Jaiyeoba’s mother know that it was never Funmi’s fault that her son’s marriage had not produced any child.

He said, “In February 2012, two years after our marriage and my wife wasn’t pregnant, we were asked to go for fertility test, and it was there we realised I was even the one with low sperm count.

“When the pressure was too much from my mother, I told her it was me who had problem, but despite that, for the next three years, she still believed it’s Funmi’s fault that I didn’t have a child, and that I should ‘try’ another woman.”

Being a firm believer in monogamy and knowing full well that even if he had slept with another woman, she wouldn’t have got pregnant for him, Jaiyeoba said he shunned his mother’s counsel and waited for “God’s time.”

“If my wife had been the one with the problem, I would never still have tried another woman. In fact, I don’t believe the main purpose of marriage is to have children,” the 43-year-old banker said.

Thankfully, in 2016, after six of years of marriage, the Jaiyeobas welcomed a set of female twins, a development that wiped off their constant sorrow.

“My mother who had never been friendly with my wife is now her best friend, always asking after her each time I call her. I just thank God the pressure is now gone and everyone is happy – after series of medical treatment, prayers and lifestyle changes,” Ben said.

For couples trying to start a family, male infertility is an all too common roadblock. In fact, about one-third of couples who have trouble conceiving can directly attribute their struggle to male infertility, according to researches. Public health experts have also expressed concern that this issue is only getting worse.

In a recent paper published in the Human Reproduction Update Journal, researchers stated that over the past 40 years, men’s sperm counts had dropped more than 50 per cent.

The study co-author, Dr. Hagai Levine, said that if the trend continued, it could lead to the “extinction of the human species.”

According to the study, sperm counts among men are dropping fast, believed to be caused by a lot of factors, including sedentary lifestyle and obesity problem. However, the researchers said sperm count was not the only indicator of male fertility.

The study said, “Motility, or how well your sperm can move to implant an egg, is also key. Likewise, morphology, which is the shape and size of sperm, has a role to play.

“Normal-sized sperm have oval heads and long tails, while abnormalities can include deformed heads and crooked or even multiple tails.”

Be that as it may, the researchers have identified the following six scientifically-backed strategies, among others, to boost sperm health in men:

Eat fruits and vegetables

To boost sperm count and overall male fertility, the researchers recommended eating lots of fruits and vegetables, saying that men who eat such foods that are rich in antioxidants have higher concentrations of sperm.

“One of the factors that affect sperm quality is something we call oxidative stress,” one of the researchers and urologist, Dr. Ali Dabaja, said. “Oxidative stress occurs when there are too many unstable atoms called free radicals in our body. Antioxidants help counteract these harmful substances.”

Dabaja recommended eating several servings of antioxidant-rich foods, like berries, every day.

He said, “Try adding blueberries to your breakfast, as they offer about 9019 total antioxidants per cup. Other good sources of antioxidants include prunes, blackberries and grapes.”

He also advised getting plenty of vitamin E as studies have shown that vitamins C and E can also improve sperm shape.

“The recommended adult dose of vitamin E is 15 milligrammes per day. Including one-fourth of a cup of sunflower seeds and a cup of spinach into your day will help you get this amount of the good stuff,” he added.

Limit alcohol intake

You may want to rethink having drinks at happy hour and at dinner.

“Alcohol can be toxic to sperm in itself,” Dabaja said.

How much of alcohol is too much? More than 10-15 drinks a week, according to Dabaja. For men trying to boost their sperm count, “it’s recommended not to have more than three to five drinks a week,” he added.

Maintain healthy weight

According to the study, overweight or obese men have lower sperm count and decreased motility compared to men with lower Body Mass Index.

“If you have a lot of body fat, you’re going to have a lot of oxidative stress to the body,” Dabaja stressed, advising men with high BMI to exercise regularly in order to stay slim.

Avoid hot bath

Dabaja stated that the high temperatures found in hot tubs could increase the temperature of men’s testicles, which could reduce how much sperm is produced. “Men who are fond of using hot tub twice a week risk having reduced sperm count and motility,” he said.

Avoid tight underwear

This might seem obvious, but wearing tight underwear and pants could lead to men’s testicles becoming overheated, which could wreak havoc on their sperm count.

“If you’re wearing support that’s hugging your gonads very close to your body, that might lead to an increase in testicular temperature,” Dabaja explained. “Loose boxers or moisture-wicking boxer briefs are good options.”

Try acupuncture

Acupuncture is a treatment that involves pushing special needles into parts of the body. While it doesn’t have a direct impact on sperm quality, it has been shown to reduce stress, which, in turn, could help boost sperm count. The researchers found that men who reported high stress levels had less sperm with reduced motility than men who reported lower stress levels.

“A healthier body is equal to healthier sperm,” Dabaja said.

Speaking to Saturday PUNCH, Ibadan-based health expert and marriage counsellor, Dr. Moferanoluwa Ajayi, said childlessness had led to the breakup of many marriages, adding that in some situations, men were the ones with fertility problem.

“Some men and their family members are actually ignorant of this; they don’t ever think they can be the ones with fertility problem. Women are always at the receiving end,” she worried.

Nonetheless, Ajayi said in order to save their marriages, men are advised to engage in exercises that could boost their health and fertility.

“I agree with the researchers’ tips for boosting men’s sperm count. These are known tips, but of course, not all men are aware. In a marriage experiencing childlessness, the woman can also share with the man these tips for their benefit,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]