Who makes a better boss, man or woman?
Leadership is the position of being the leader of a group, organisation, country, etc. It is a practical skill which encompasses the ability for an individual to “lead” or guide other individuals, teams, or entire organisations to achieve set goals within certain guidelines, budget and time frame. These days, both men and women have carved a niche for themselves working as industry professionals in various reputable organisations. However, the question always arises as to who is more competent in the art of leading. This week, Saturday Punch asked Nigerians who they think makes a better boss between a man and a woman

Women feel insecure and such can’t be a good boss

Eriata Anderson

I agree that women are very good in whatever field they go into. But the problem is that when they move up the rung of success, they begin to feel that everyone is envious of their achievements, especially the men. This makes them very irritating as they try to respond to every single thing they perceive to be an insult or challenge to them. If you have a female boss and while scolding you, you look another way, she will call it disrespect. If you look into her eyes, she will call it impolite. They have this way of making big issues out of every little thing. They don’t waste time to remind you that they are the boss. That to me is insecurity and an insecure person can’t be a good boss

You will learn more under a woman

Vera Adesanya

I think women make better bosses. I know women can be aggressive and harsh but no matter what, they still make sure that whoever is working under them gain something at the end of the day. Most times men take advantage of their co-workers especially the females. When men are at the top, they start asking their female workers to be their lover. Most times these men are even married. They may give you all the money you need and even exempt you from too much work but at the end of the day, you will leave the company without learning anything reasonable. Men don’t make working condition comfortable for women but women do for all.

Leadership is grace

Anthony Augustine

I can’t say any particular gender can make a better boss. What I believe is that if you are good and experienced enough, you can be a good boss regardless of your gender. The truth is that most female bosses tend to take it easy with the men but hard on women while men do it the other way round. I think the choice of who makes a better boss for an individual will be greatly influenced by gender. I have worked with female team leaders who were awesome and some who had serious personality issues. I have also worked with competent male bosses and incompetent ones too. Leadership to me is grace and not everyone has it.

Female bosses help beyond the workplace

Basilia Obiora

Women are more understanding, caring and loving and as such, they make better bosses. Men also have some of these qualities but you find it more in women. Women are very wise and able to handle every situation with wisdom. I am talking from experience. Currently, my boss is a woman and she has helped me in several ways, even in my own personal issues. She is not just about the job but she cares beyond that. It’s not easy to handle issues in your home and also find time to listen to the plight of your workers. That is motherly nature playing out even in a work place. It makes work comfortable and easy.

Women are too complex

Rufus Ali

I will prefer to work with a man anytime or day. Maybe it’s because I’ve been working with male bosses for a long time. Women are too emotional and tend to flare up at the slightest provocation. Men on the other hand have a way of maintaining a calm disposition even when faced with great challenges. If you compliment them too much, they begin to perceive some sexual undertones. It makes it hard because you may never know what your female boss might be thinking each time you smile at her. I wouldn’t want to work with someone I cannot understand because that will put me on edge each time I’m around them.

Male bosses are impartial

Veronica Odumosu

The men are better bosses because they are usually impartial and more compassionate than women. I guess it’s because they have wives at home; that is why they are always sympathetic towards women that work under them. The women are usually harsh and jealous. I would have said the only turn off for men is usually sexual assault against women but these days, even women assault men sexually. It may not sound rampant but it is. It’s just that men don’t like to talk about it. There are a lot of women who have risen to the top of their career yet; they don’t have a man to go back to, so they harass the men that work under them.

Women have the ability to inspire

Ukpong Akpanika

For me, effectiveness will depend on the job description. Personally, I feel women are more effective in human resource and administration than men. I don’t know why but it’s just something they have naturally. Men on the other hand are good as section leaders who handle a small yet very effective unit of professionals. I say so because men lack the patience to deal with too many people that may get on their nerves but women naturally have this ability to handle people’s excesses in a professional way. Women have the ability to inspire. Maybe it’s a gift that comes with their gender.

I prefer working under men

Bridget Olota

I feel more comfortable working under men than women. That is just my individual preference, not like I feel men are better on the job. There is always this insecurity that shrouds young successful women. They could ask you a question, while trying to explain yourself, they shut you up immediately. I think it’s just a kind of defence mechanism they have because they feel people will try to take a shot on them to see if they are truly worth the position they occupy. A man on the other hand doesn’t mind making mistakes even before his subordinates as long as he knows that he is the one in charge.

Women make better bosses

Bandele John

From my own experience working in different firms and organisations, I would say that women make better bosses. Naturally men might want to look down on women but there is this delight that comes with watching a woman do things she is very good at and also getting people under her to work hard. Maybe it’s because I’m a man; that is why I’m attracted to them. Take the current finance minister as an example. Each time you see her, you can’t help but imagine how smart she may be to have got to that stage. I like the idea of a female boss and I also think they make excellent leaders.

Women are hard on fellow women

Odutola Odumosu

I will say a man makes a better boss because women have the tendency to be hard on fellow women sometimes. Women tend to have mood swings depending on what goes on in their homes and they come to the office with the bad mood and it rubs off on everyone on the team. Being a boss is not just about being the best on the job. There are other factors that come into play and some women don’t possess them. The only reservation I have about a male boss is the issue of sexual advances or harassment.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]