How important is honeymoon?
ojoi igajah

Whenever intending couples plan their weddings, the idea of taking some time off for honeymoon after the ceremony is a common feature that they don’t fail to talk about. Some people have described it as a woman’s thing but to others, honeymoon a veritable beginning of marital union. Saturday Punch asked some Nigerians how important they feel honeymoon is

It depends on the resources available

Queendaline Obi

How important honeymoon is depends on the party involved. If it is what they both have always fancied right from time, then it is definitely going to be important to them. It also depends on the resources available to them. Different people believe and place value on things based on the way they perceive them. People go for honeymoon to purge themselves of the stress from wedding planning. They just want to run away from friends and family for a little while. I personally like the idea of honeymoon. It doesn’t have to be in an expensive hotel or destination. I can even follow my husband to his village as long as that is not where the wedding took place. If my spouse complains of money and I have some, I can sponsor the honeymoon but if he doesn’t like it, then fine, we will forget about it.

It’s a thing of ego

Justice Jones

Some men don’t really like honeymoon. It’s just that they won’t feel good knowing that other men got married and took their newly wed brides for a fun holiday together. It has become an ego thing. I just feel some men won’t mind getting married and taking their wives home to begin their married lives but if you don’t do it, people will start saying you went broke immediately after your wedding. You do it to let them know that you have the ability to enjoy an expensive holiday with your wife. I personally don’t mind doing it if I have the money, time and resources but that does not mean it is important. It is not a do or die affair.

The couple need a time off after wedding

Runyi Etomi

When we use the word ‘honeymoon,’ it makes the event sound so big and expensive in such a way that people tend to avoid or shy away from it. The thing is that after the marriage ceremony, both the bride and the groom need a good time away from work and every other person who may be in a position to stress them. You don’t need to travel or do anything extraordinary. Even if both of you decide to lock yourselves up in your home, turn off your phones and getting to connect with each other at a deeper level, then at night you go out and grab some drinks. Honeymoon is particularly good for the working class couples because you can never tell when you both might have such a time together again.

Honeymoon is not important

Michael Akitunde

Honeymoon is not important at all because before you decide to marry someone, I believe you must have had or spent intimate time with such a person. You must have gone to different destinations also with the person. So what is the whole frenzy about having a honeymoon in a fancy hotel? I prefer going for a vacation with my wife rather than going for honeymoon after our wedding. It doesn’t add to your life or guarantee a successful marriage. What matters most is staying married. People place too much value on unimportant things. The only ground I can accept that honeymoon is a good idea is if you have been stressed and want to take some time off. But if anyone tells me to do it because others do, then they are wasting their time.

Honeymoon is like a shooting star

Affi Etuk

I will advise anyone who feels like having a honeymoon to go ahead with it. It is a very refreshing and important time in the lives of new couples. I take honeymoon very seriously not because I will get to stay in a good hotel or go to choice destinations but because it is one phase whereby if missed can never be got back. Honeymoon is like a shooting star. The moment it comes, you make your wish on it. The days and nights you will spend together might seem few compared to your entire married lives but it will teach you first hand marriage lessons. Go out, have a honeymoon, have fun except you really do not look forward to your wedding.

It’s just for memory sake

Bernard Jumbo

It’s not that honeymoon is important but obviously everyone enjoys having a nice time every once in a while. It’s just like marking your birthday. You can decide to make it big, or have a little good time with family and you can decide not to do it at all. Nobody will kill you for it. It’s just the memory I’m concerned about. I like the idea of looking back at some pictures and say ‘this was immediately after I got married to my wife’. If I’m to have a honeymoon, I’m doing it for my own pleasure and not because society has subtly mandated me to do it. Like I said before, it is not important but if you have the money and will, then why not? It is your life, your wife and your marriage.

It’s a deserved and rewarding break

Susan Onoriode

If you know the kind of energy, both physical and emotional that goes into organising a wedding, then you will agree that honeymoon is very important. They must not necessarily go for a big hotel but any quiet place they can just take out time to rest, have fun and have people do almost everything for them. Marriage comes with its own daily challenges. The couple will have to make a conscious effort for the rest of their lives to make sure their marriage works. That sounds like a lot to me so I think they need to take out time to have fun while bracing themselves up for the coming challenges. It is a deserved and rewarding break. I personally feel there should be honeymoons at intervals throughout the course of marriage because it’s not easy at all. We all need a break once in a while.

The woman I marry will determine

Evare Peter

The woman I will marry will be the one to determine if it’s important or not. I don’t really see myself going for a honeymoon but if it is what the love of my life wants, then I will gladly do it. It is my job to love and cherish my wife and do her bidding. If she feels like honeymoon should come after marriage, then fine. We will make out time for it. Why I’m saying this is that most women are the ones who clamour for honeymoon immediately after wedding. I don’t think I have ever seen a man who talks excitedly about going for his honeymoon but I have seen more than enough women who have goosebumps just thinking about honeymoon. If I end up with a woman who wants to have a honeymoon vacation, then fine. If she doesn’t want it, then I can live with that too.

It’s good for rejuvenation

Feyisara Badmus

Honeymoon is not a do or die affair. If you have the finance, then by all means go ahead with it and if you don’t, then forget it. Nobody will judge you. The problem now is that most people try to compare themselves with others, doing what they see on social media, television and society magazines. If you cannot afford the glamour of a 5-star hotel, then check into a little secure guest house. The aim of a honeymoon is having time to rest after your wedding so that you can get back to your workplace rejuvenated. In my opinion, you can even have your honeymoon in your matrimonial home as long as you can cut out all manner of disturbance from people around.

It is very symbolic

David Olakekan

If you marry a good wife from a good home and you can’t wait to spend the rest of your life with her, then a honeymoon vacation will definitely be important to you. Due to infidelity and other factors, people are no longer interested in honeymoon because nothing will be new to them. Instead they will see it as a waste of time and money. But the truth is that the honeymoon vacation should be a memorable event in the hearts of newlyweds in such a way that after exchanging marital vows, they will have the chance to finally be together in each other’s arms. It is very symbolic because it marks the beginning of the rest of their lives.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]