Five Habits that can prolong your life
Jesusegun Alagbe

Almost everyone wants to live a long life – perhaps to spend more time with their loved ones, travel to more places across the world or achieve new life goals. However, not everyone gets the long life, particularly in developing countries like Nigeria, where life expectancy is 53.4 for men and 55.6 for women, according to data by the World Health Organisation.

Notwithstanding, a group of researchers at the Harvard University, United States, have identified a set of rules which, if followed, could improve the longevity of anyone, even those in the developing countries.

The scientists – namely, Yanping Li; An Pan; Dong Wang; Xiaoran Liu; Klodian Dhana; Oscar Franco; Stephen Kaptoge; Emanuele Di Angelantonio; Meir Stampfer; Walter Willett; and Frank Hu – discovered in their research that having a longer life boils down to following a set of five simple rules, in addition to the old pieces of advice such as “drink red wine”, “add turmeric to your morning latte”, and so on.

According to the Harvard researchers, abiding by the rules can add at least a decade more to your life. They stated in their publication in the journal, Circulation – titled, “Impact of healthy lifestyle factors on life expectancies,” – that men who adhere to all five rules live roughly 12 years longer than those who don’t follow any of them, while women who meet the same criteria live an additional 14 years.

They also stated that these habits also decrease risk of dying from cardiovascular disease and cancer, which are among the leading causes of death worldwide.

Their study, which used data from two groups of more than 123,000 people, showed that those who adhered to the rules added a decade plus to their lives while those who didn’t died early.

Aside from stating the habits that can prolong your life, they also provided tips for mastering each habit, which are as follows:

Give up smoking

The researchers stated in their study that saying goodbye to cigarettes can add more years to your life. “People who quit smoking at 65 live longer, while those who give up the habit at 35 years old can expect to live around seven to eight years more than those who quit late,” they said.

To anyone struggling to quit the habit, the researchers recommended exercising a lot as people who exercise when they crave cigarettes are more likely to overcome the urge to smoke. They added that exercise could distract you from thinking about taking a puff, and breaking a sweat may lift your mood and boost your feeling of self-control, thereby reducing your impulsiveness.

Maintain a healthy weight

The Harvard study found that people with a low risk of early death had a Body Mass Index between 18.5 and 24.9. According to the US-based National Institute of Health, people with BMIs above 25 are considered overweight, and people with BMIs above 30 are considered obese. While BMI calculations aren’t always the most reliable, research has shown that gaining just a few pounds can shave years off your life.

To reduce your body mass, you can practise exercises such as the kettlebell swing and squat thrust.

The study stated, “You can do 15 repetitions of the kettlebell swing (you can also use a dumbbell for this), followed immediately by 15 repetitions of the squat thrust.

“To do a kettlebell (or dumbbell) swing, bend at your hips and hold a kettlebell (or dumbbell) with both hands at arm’s length in front of you. Now rock back slightly and ‘hike’ the kettlebell between your legs. Then squeeze your glutes, thrust your hips forward forcefully, and swing the weight to shoulder height. Allow momentum to swing the weight.

“Reverse the movement, so that you swing the kettlebell between your legs again. Make sure you don’t round your lower back at any time; it should stay naturally arched when you bend at your hips. Continue to swing back and forth.

“To do the squat thrust, stand with your feet slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. Bending at your hips and knees, squat down and lower your body until you can place your hands on the floor. Kick your legs backward – into a pushup position – and then immediately reverse the move and quickly stand up from the squat.”

Exercise regularly

While this rule might seem similar to the second rule, it is a bit different. According to the Harvard researchers, you don’t need to have an all-day workout session to show that you are exercising; they said that walking for as little as 30 minutes a day is enough to live longer, provided it’s at a moderate or vigorous pace. Of course, they added that there are plenty of other reasons to get in the gym, especially as research has shown that being active can improve memory, mood and learning.

Avoid binge drinking

It’s tempting to have a third beer at happy hour, but guys (and ladies) who keep their booze to about two drinks a day lived longer, according to the Harvard study. “For this analysis, moderation drinking in men was limited to five to 30 grammes of alcohol a day, which is roughly two 12-ounce beers,” the study said.

Trade junk food for produce

The researchers assessed people’s diets using the Alternate Healthy Eating Index, and found that those who eat quality rather than junk foods lived longer. They recommended that rather than over-refined grains, go for whole ones, and rather than juices, go for whole fruits.

Additionally, it is recommended that you should strive for about 30 grammes of protein in each meal. Suggested protein sources include fish such as salmon, rainbow trout and Atlantic mackerel as they are low in mercury but high in omega-3 fats, which can help lower your risk of diabetes and heart disease.

Chicken and turkey breast are also fantastic protein sources since they are both super lean. Eggs are also a nutrient powerhouse, providing an array of vitamins and minerals in addition to their high-quality protein (about six grammes per egg).

The Harvard researchers also advised to aim for at least three servings of vegetable per day, including salads, leafy greens, spinach, romaine, and kale, which you can turn into your pasta, omelettes, and smoothies.

Also, peppers, whether red, orange, or yellow are not only good for spicing your flavour, they also offer tons of vitamin C, which helps keep your immune system, heart, and skin healthy.

Don’t forget broccoli or cauliflower in your diet as these cruciferous vegetables are an easy way to bulk up a meal with vegetables. Roast them up and eat them with your steak and potatoes, toss them in a salad, or chop them up and sauté into your pasta sauce. People who eat more cruciferous vegetables have a lower risk of prostate, lung, and colon cancer, according to the National Cancer Institute.

The researchers added in their recommendation that carrots, thanks to their amount of beta carotene, work to protect the brain, in addition to having a high dose of vitamin A, which is great for the eyes and skin.

“Also, go for mushrooms, which are unusually high in antioxidants that help your body fight ageing. Shiitake, Oyster, and Miatke tend to contain the highest amounts, but eating just five button mushrooms a day can be beneficial, too,” the study added.

Furthermore, the study stated, “Everything tastes more flavourful with a little onion thrown in. Onions, whether white or red, are also a great source of vitamins C and B6, fibre, potassium, and manganese.

“Tubers such as potatoes, cocoyam, cassava, and yam are rich in resistant starch, offering benefits similar to fibre. Don’t also forget legumes such as beans, chickpeas, and lentils, which are good protein sources.”

A Lagos-based fitness and food expert, Dr. Funmi Babalola, agreed with the study authors, saying that lifestyle, rather than other factors, is largely responsible for the untimely death of some people.

She said, “I agree 100 per cent with the researchers. This is what I have been preaching all this while, too. I believe that lifestyle is more responsible for death today than natural or spiritual cause, as some might believe.

“Exercise is also a very good medicine. If you do it regularly, it will reduce your visit to the hospital. Unfortunately, many people don’t realise this. There are some sicknesses that are preventable by regular exercise.

“Then, such as the authors suggested, people should stop eating junk food most of the time. The painful thing is that you now see parents who claim to be busy feeding their children with junk food. We now wonder why certain diseases which were not previously known are now killing our children and youths. I believe information, such as the one provided by the Harvard authors, gives liberation.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]