48 points to better sex (2)
Funmi Akingbade

[email protected]

08034540594

Twelve, watch out for things that can make sexual play get twisted. It’s really common for a night of passion to lead to a day or days of pain because of how bodies intertwine with one another. As much as couples like to slide around, the fact is skin sometimes gets in the way, but we can take care of each one of them in a unique way.

Thirteen, due to the fact that married couples do some strange sexual stuff, sex-related injuries are very common and many sex injuries happen simply because somebody gets a little carried away.

Fourteen, how common are sex injuries?

Fifteen, from the number of various clients visiting my office, I do have comprehensive statistics of at least one-third of adults suffer some form of injury related to sex each year. While sexual activities are highly physical, like any physical activity, they come with risks of injury. Although many can be prevented with bit of preparations and improved communication between couples, love-making sometimes can really be a battlefield and getting hurt in the heat of passion could be a common problem seldom discussed.

Sixteen, the most common sex injury ranges from a pulled muscle, a back injury to heart attack.

Seventeen, do you know that penis can break as long as it’s hard at the time.

Eighteen, while an erect penis contains no actual bones, the penis does contain tubes that are filled with blood during an erection. It’s the lining of these tubes that can rupture in response to heavy trauma or bending.

Nineteen, hear what a client describes, “My wife climbed on top. While thrusting her hips back and forth against my trust rhythm, she decided to lean back without communicating this to me and I was not prepared for her quick descent backwards. I knew it was broken.” Oh, it’s so painful. A broken penis is often accompanied by a snapping sound and dark bruising and requires immediate attention.

Twenty, penile fractures are not actually fractures but rather a hard tear in the tissues of the penis. They occur when the erect penis is bent forcefully; there may be a popping or cracking sound. It affects about 10 per cent of men. Penile fractures are relatively uncommon, so you can still have fun doing lots of thrusting and bending in the bedroom. Just be wary of any quick movement that might bend the shaft excessively; so pay close attention.

Twenty-one, muscle strains are common during any type of physical activity and sex is no exception. Considering the fact that you can burn around 200 calories in a 30-minute sex session, it’s no surprise that many spouses report sex as the cause of many sprain injuries.

Twenty-two, and since sexual arousal can release endorphins that reduce the experience of pain, these couples don’t realise they’re hurt until after sex is over. To help prevent muscle strains, pick positions that are comfortable. If it doesn’t, make small adjustments to the angle of your hips or use your partner’s hands for more support.

Twenty-five, you can also get burnt down below.

Twenty-six, I had one woman who came in because her husband had performed oral sex on her too quickly after eating a spicy meal and drinking spicy ‘pepper-soup’ and she sustained painful sore burns from the hot sauce.

Twenty-seven, common bumps and bruises are what happen daily, in the heat of the moment, it’s easy to smack your head against the headboard or scrape your knees along the carpet. Many of these injuries can be prevented by purchasing lots of pillows and creating a soft nest in and around your bed. Not only do pillows provide padding for soft landings, but they can be used when trying new positions.

Twenty-eight, be careful, objects can easily get lodged in your vagina. When inserting objects or sex toys into your vagina, smooth-edged toys with a flared base are recommended to ensure nothing gets lost in your uterus. Natural lubricants are also essential to sex play, as they help minimise friction and reduce the risk of small tears that can lead to infection.

Twenty-nine, sometimes these objects can lead to small tears or cuts in the vagina, which can occur when sex is more vigorous and there isn’t enough lubrication.

Thirty, women will often not feel any pain until after sex, because sexual arousal usually raises pain tolerance, but if the cuts are sizable and bleeding doesn’t stop on its own, a woman should seek medical attention to prevent infection.

Thirty-one, lost condoms are a more common affliction for women; make sure you get them out on time. Drinking lots of water and doing stretches before intercourse will help a lot. But if you still get cramps, take a minute to rub your muscles and work them out. Let your partner do it too so that you both can start touching again.

Thirty-two, bone fracture can happen during sex, especially if you naturally do not possess a straight leg or when you are a lover of salt and you take in too much sodium, you may likely be prone to fracture while experimenting with some new sex styles or positions.

Thirty-three, this is because while excess of sodium is removed during urination, it unfortunately takes huge amount of calcium along which makes the bone to be deficient of calcium and may lead to fracture during active sexual play. It is advisable to eat more fresh food, especially vegetables, egg yolks; they’re a good source of vitamin D and calcium. These are crucial for your bones, and then cut back on sodium.

Thirty-four, you may also experience some form of fracture during sex if you take medications like steroids, cholesterol-lowering drugs, some weight loss drugs, and some blood thinners.

Thirty-five, taking soda drinks seems to decrease the density of bones; probably because of the phosphoric acid in them. It is better to just drink a glass of water or homemade juice. And too much of alcohol also slows the formation of new bone tissue, so it is better to stick to healthy wine drink.

Thirty-six, sitting too much damages the back bones. In order to have healthy backbone for good sexual activities, try looking for opportunities to get up and move, and add weight-bearing exercise to your daily activities such as tennis, dancing, or jogging.

Thirty-seven, cigarettes are bad for your whole body and that includes your bones. Studies have shown a strong link between smoking and a decrease in bone density. And women who smoke make less estrogen, a hormone that’s key to bone health and healthy sex.

Thirty-eight, couples who are overweight rarely will have low bone density, being too thin raises your chance of developing osteoporosis. I am not suggesting obesity is a safe or healthy way of life but consider your bone health before starting a weight-loss programme.

Thirty-nine, sex isn’t a minefield of danger, but accidents can and do happen. So, when you’re imagining how good it will feel, also try to think of how bad it could feel if something goes wrong. Most often, these mishaps are sustained while having sex in non-traditional settings, such as on stairs, over kitchen tables, or in closets, or when trying new sexual positions; it is therefore very paramount to have safety tips at hand.

Forty, so, what are these safety tips you may ask. Most of the safety tips are just common sense. If anything causes discomfort, it should be discontinued immediately and just because something is supposed to be fun, doesn’t mean it works for everyone.

Forty-one, if it’s going to destroy your health, then stay in your familiar territories. Do not push yourself past your own level of flexibility or cardiovascular health, Some people can’t touch their toes while some have been advised by their doctors not to raise their heart rate [following a heart attack or stroke], so when it starts to get physically stressful, they may have problems.

Forty-two, it is wise to watch out for potential danger. I’m not talking about danger of sexually transmitted diseases and infections, and those are dangerous too, obviously: but rather I’m talking about the rug burn, the pulled hair, and the overzealous nipple bite. What some partners may naturally not count as “injuries.”

Forty-three, during rough sex, strange fantasies may send some couples to the hospital. For instance some people say they enjoy hard face slapping, spanking with belt, hard hair pulling, pushing and pulling like a doll; this is definitely a sign of disrespect for the personality of the receiver and it still baffles me how someone would receive reddish swollen marks, scratch and bruises, strain, and still see such acts as excitement of intensity pleasures and arousals.

Forty-four, my question is since when does pain and cracks become a form of enjoyment and relaxation?

Forty-five, don’t expect heart stopping intercourse; it may claim your life.

Forty-six, although at the moment of sexual escapade, it might not seem like you are endangering your heart and life because of the amount of fun you’re experiencing.

Forty-seven, remember that sex is still a form of exercise, with particularly steamy sessions burning over 300 calories in an hour.

Forty-eight, and research has found that the increased physical exertion during sexual activity can actually triple your risk of a heart attack in the hours shortly after it.

Questions!!! Answer!!!

Latent volcano is preventing me from marriage

Latent volcano, that’s the apt description of my fiancé’s temper. He is a nice man and we have been together for close to seven years now and each time we pick a date for our wedding, my parents are always finding one reason or the other to make sure it does not hold. They are torn apart over whether I should marry him or not. Mum says ‘No! If you marry him, he’ll kill you one day; his temper is destructive.’ While my dad says, ‘go ahead and marry, there is no perfect human being anywhere; you’re 42 and shouldn’t be too choosy. With time, his temper will calm down.’ But will it? Truly, he’s loving, warm and generous to a fault except for this latent volcano; should I or should I not?

Hmmm, the act of changing someone does not lie with anyone. Whatever character deficiency you see in your spouse while you are in courtship and you feel you can’t manage, it is better you have a rethink about your choice. It would be an unrealistic expectation if you expect such character deficiency to disappear in marriage, regardless the level of love he professes for you. As per your parents’ view, it’s good to take advice but the ball still lies in your court, you are the one that is going into that marriage and experience everything in it either good or bad, so you need to make your choice which is, if you think you can cope, then go for it but if otherwise, then you know the option. But bear it in mind that however long the duration of a courtship takes, it cannot be compared to a lifelong marriage. And the emotional trauma of a broken courtship can never be compared with a hypertensive until-death-do-us-apart marriage. A word is enough for the wise.

I have not been able to have penetrative sex due to the pain it causes

This is the third year into my marriage and I am still a virgin. I have not been able to have penetrative sex due to the pain it causes when attempting it. It is always impossible due to my muscles being so tense. Though my husband has been very understanding, thoughtful, and considerate, I am so desperate to have penetrative sex and a baby. I really wish there were drugs or supplement available, which would loosen my muscles and save my marriage.

Mrs Saheed Fatokun

You are not the only one facing such predicament, many other wives have been challenged with such but do recover from it. All you need do is first try and relax your mind. When the mind is relaxed the body relaxes also. Secondly let your husband finger you frequently with lots of lubricants this will soften the hymen and also make the area less tense. Then do not always have the mind of penetrative sex during foreplay or romance just have fun and let things just happen. Besides practice more of pelvic floor exercise.

Funny noises during sex

Sometimes when I am having sex, my vagina makes a noise as if I am passing gas. It is so embarrassing; the noise woke my baby up the last time we had sex. What causes it and how can I prevent it?

Beauty Asukofa

This noisy emission is air escaping from your vagina. When you’re aroused, your vagina expands to allow room for your husband’s penis. His thrusting during intercourse pushes air into you, which fills the space in the inner part of your vagina that has expanded. A shift in body position or a deep thrust can force that air out, resulting in the fart-like sound. It is also possible to let out air post-orgasm, when air is expelled as the vagina returns to its pre-aroused state.

While making a gassy sound can be embarrassing, it is actually common. However, if it is getting in the way of your pleasure, try these preventive tricks: First, lie on your back and gently press down on your abdomen with the palm of your hand prior to intercourse. This will expel air already present in your vagina. During sex, encourage your husband to make shallow strokes and avoid pelvis-elevated positions like doggie-style, which can increase noisy emission. In addition, a good Kegel exercise normally rectifies this; do not let a little noise restrict your sex life. Just laugh it off.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]