What is your understanding of intimacy?
Gloria Ogunbadejo

I spent the last weekend with a good friend and her husband and I were struck at the dynamics in their relationship. It made me wonder how much we are conscious of the terms of engagement in our relationships and how much we are conscious of the how and what we communicate to each other; especially non-verbally.

They do say the bulk of our communication as human beings is done non-verbally through body language and things we don’t say. Talking can be overrated particularly when it is used as a means to cover up real feelings or for those who have the gift of the garb use it to attack and denigrate, mask and confuse what really matters. We are a nation of talkers but a lot of it is not meaningful communication. It is just noise!

My friend has been married for decades and they have three young adult children, two of who still live at home. It was interesting watching the dynamics in their relationship and observing how they communicate and in some cases don’t communicate. My friend has always been somewhat of an introvert or appears to be when in the company of her husband; because whenever we are together, she is certainly the life of the party. I always wondered about that and felt concerned that she was not being her true to herself with her husband. Then again, I am also very conscious that you never really know what goes on between a man and a woman behind closed doors.

I had a friend whose marriage I used to think was, if not perfect at least, very healthy because they went on lots of vacations together. They appeared to be engaged in lots of dialogue and they went to the cinema often and appeared to have an interesting, active lifestyle. It came as a massive shock to find out that her husband had been visiting porn sites when she was at work and had an active secret live which she knew nothing of.

My friend came home early one day and was faced with the worst day of her life when she unearthed the seedy secret life of her husband. She promptly filed for divorce. It took her several years to get over the trauma. Anyway I digressed.

Going back to my weekend with my friend and her husband. I watched as my friends’ husband engaged in not so witty banter and public displays of affection towards his wife, completely oblivious to the fact that his wife was neither enjoying his jokes or his attempts at awkward romantic gestures. I felt uncomfortable and embarrassed for both of them. I noticed my friend roll her eyes on a number of occasions in response e to things he said and there just felt like there was a lot of unspoken hostility, tension, and non-verbal communication taking place, mostly from my friend.

I did ask my friend if she was having some arguments or disagreements with her husband before I arrived and I told her what I was picking up while in their company. She said they were not arguing and that is how they always interact. I asked her if she was holding back how she was feeling to which she said she cannot be herself around him. I know this might not necessarily be an unusual phenomenon in many relationships. However, it’s almost inevitable that if you are unable to be or live your true self with your partner, it is very likely you will share that side with someone else.

Intimacy is an interesting word. At first glance, most people will probably think of sex. While sex can and is a part of intimacy, it is also very separate to it and requires a deeper form of communication which involves vulnerability and honesty.

Intimacy is the foundation of any relationship and certainly means more than the physical. We all have certain significant aspects of our lives. We have the physical, the mental, the social, the emotional and the spiritual. If we are lucky, all these parts work in a synergy to keep us well balanced and harmonious.

When we lack real intimacy in a significant relationship, there is a tendency to misread the signs for a lack of sexual gratification (men are more prone to this). There is a knee jerk reaction and a desire for a physical instant gratification. It is a lot easier to be physically intimate with a person than to be intimate in any of the other significant areas mentioned above.

Any healthy relationship that hopes to be sustained requires intimacy. The ideal is to have physical and emotional intimacy; they go hand in hand. Your relationship will slowly wither and die without it.

What happens in many relationships is that one type of intimacy tends to be more important to one partner than the other. Without emotional and physical intimacy between a couple, there is nothing to hold on to when the difficult times come around as they will surely do; you are left feeling anchorless.

Some of the very simple physical actions such as hand-holding, cuddling, hugs and kisses are vital in creating intimacy in a loving relationship. These actions in themselves do not have to come with any expectations of anything more. When building intimacy in a relationship, there must be space to express loving and nonsexual actions that create safety and acceptance with nothing else attached to it.

In the course of my work with couples, many have expressed falling out of love with their partners. It’s one of those things that can sneak up on you and catch you off guard, at least that’s what a few couples I spoke to claim. They say one day you wake up, look at your partner in bed with you and realise you just don’t feel the passion anymore. I don’t tend to believe it happens like that. While I agree it can creep up on you, I do think there will be many signs along the way, that if you are vigilant enough you will spot and this is where you need to attend to it as you would a wound or some part of your body that is broken and you try to mend before it deteriorates and spoils for good. Love is a dance between certainty and uncertainty, the unknown is what makes it most exciting, mysterious and scary.

In the beginning of a healthy, normal relationship, it all starts with attraction. We flirt, joke, and are intrigued and challenged by each other. Later on, attachment starts to build up, as we get to know each other and trust each other, we communicate better and the romance side of it commences in full swing. This is considered to be the attraction, attachment stage. Your conscious needs are met (e.g. romance, comfort, sex etc), and your unconscious needs are also met and this is the stage most couples actually fall in love.

One of the fundamental elements of love is attitude, which is the maturity of characters and the self-confidence that each partner should have in order to make a relationship work. So when the two elements of love and attachment are present in the relationship, it works like a charm and you feel passionate about each other.

However, in a few years because of familiarity, routine, daily issues, personal problems and a whole array of possibilities etc, attraction may start to fade out.

In other words, you stop being as playful as you used to, intrigue goes away, there is little or no more teasing going on, and things get boring and predictable. At this stage, only attachment remains and in a relationship where there is only attachment, things may become dry and boring. This is usually the stage when people start looking out of their relationships to capture and relive the inimitable feeling of attraction, the chase, intrigue, and the unknown of a new relationship.

What it boils down to is that couples fall out of love due to a very counter intuitive reason. They stop positively challenging each other; they are not motivated to invest in the relationship anymore.

The classic reason people think that couples break up, is that the partners stop investing in the relationship, they stop being romantic, playful, caring, stop taking care of themselves as they used to and of each other, and they are not motivated to invest in the relationship.

Now, while this is quite an accurate explanation of what happens, the other rationale is the counter intuitive part which is why they stop investing in the relationship. This may be as simple as a lack of motivation to invest in the relationship anymore. This motivation is a very powerful emotion as it drives everything we do despite what other distraction life puts in our way. You have heard of the expression where there is a will there is a way?

Simply put, you need to keep building and maintaining attraction in your relationship. You need to be watering and feeding it if you want it to grow and flower.

Bring back romance in your relationship; teasing, creative challenging and validation are all ways to rekindle passion. The important thing is to be aware that maintaining the passion and motivation in your relationship takes some effort but the good news is that you can get back the passion and fall in love again.

Deep intimacy in a relationship can be seen in a couple from a secret look they give each other across a room, a slight brush of their bodies as they pass each other, the light or lingering loving touch; all these can be done in a room full of people, or alone together.

When you have an intimate relationship, you are always communicating, verbally and none verbally. Being intimate means being willing to let your partner know your deepest fears and aspirations and knowing that those feelings are safe with them.

Knowing that you have a deeply intimate relationship with your partner, and that you share something with them that no one else does is a very exciting position to be in and something worth working towards.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]