How to help a child that is hot-tempered
Tunde Ajaja

For the second time in three years, Junior (as he’s fondly called by his parents) has broken the screen of their television. He did it in protest when he was seemingly provoked, and it was until the recent recurrence that it dawned on his parents that they might have bigger problem on their hands.

Of course, after the first incident when he smashed the screen of their 52-inch television with his shoe, because his three-year-old sister ate his noodles, he was given a thorough beating that he, ordinarily, shouldn’t forget in his lifetime. But that wasn’t enough. It happened again few weeks ago when a neighbour collected his N20 note and refused to return it.

Being hot-tempered is usually something that is more noticeable in adults, but it has been observed that some children have the trait. And as a matter of fact, it sometimes stems from their formative years. But some experts have pointed out that parents should not come hard on themselves when their children act like human beings – by getting angry. Thus, what can parents do to help such children?

A school counsellor and author, Signe Whitson, said a good way to start is to let such a child know the difference between healthy anger, marked by assertive communication, and problematic anger, which is when people (impatiently) resort into physical aggression, verbal outburst, revenge or outright violence to get back at others. She noted that letting such children know the negative perception associated with such and how they could lose privileges could help them to adopt better ways of expressing their anger.

She also explained that activities such as sports, exercise and mindfulness, which involve paying close attention to everything that they are experiencing, especially during quiet meditation, with the aim of improving mental state have been “proven” effective in helping young people learn to calm their brains and gain greater control over their choices in healthy behaviours.

She added, “As a mental health professional, I encourage all schools to incorporate emotion management skills as part of the regular curriculum. Prevention is our very best bet for helping young people to solve their anger issues before they become lifelong patterns.

“Helping a child learn how to thoroughly calm down from a bout of anger is one of the most valuable skills an adult can teach.

Bond with them: A human behaviour, parenting and education expert, Dr. Gail Gross, explained that parents should bond with their children, pointing out that such children, in moments of anger, rely on their parents to listen to their complaints and fight for them. On the other hand, a child who does not experience such love tends to want to fight their own battle, and this, she said, could breed bad behaviour. And when you have noticed they have anger issues, sit with them and help them to inculcate the better alternatives, which must warn them not to hit anything or anyone, not to throw or break objects and not to disrespect others, no matter how they feel.

Avail them of better options: Gross also advised that parents should teach their children better ways of reacting when they are angry and the options include breathing deeply, counting from one to 20, drawing or letting go if they can.

Let them know what symbolises anger: She further advised that parents should make clear to their children dispositions or feelings that symbolise that they are angry. This, she said, would help them to monitor themselves and bring their emotions under control when necessary.

Make it known you care about how they feel: While it can be difficult for a parent to stay calm while a child becomes too aggressive or excessively reactive, Gross advised that as a parent, telling them you know why they are angry but that their approach is wrong is a way to help them.

These experts also advise that teaching them to adopt alternatives is better than scolding them or flogging them in return. They said this could worsen it, and more importantly, such would not teach them a better way of handling their emotions because they have not been taught and probably do not know there are better options.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]