Beware! Breast and butt enlargement bad for your health
Tunde Ajaja

For the obvious reasons, many women pay so much attention to their breasts and butts; not just because they are vital body parts, but also because these sexual organs are central to their attractiveness by men.

Perhaps, out of the need to impress or boost their confidence level, some women resort to employing different means to enlarge these body parts; talk of breast enlargement and butts enlargement. To some younger persons, the bigger the better, while to some wives, big breasts and butts would increase their husbands’ desire for sex, especially knowing that men are moved by what they see.

Although, there are some who do it because their breasts didn’t really develop, that, according to reports, is in the minority.

But as much as some are able to enlarge these body parts successfully, usually through surgery, safe for the option of taking (expensive) pills, experts have warned that there are inherent dangers in going under the knife to enlarge these organs.

In fact, usually, such persons are requested to sign consent forms, just to make sure they have been briefed of and are well aware of the potential risks and complications that could arise.

Talking about breasts first, apart from the huge financial cost, some studies have proved that there are usually complications that would occur after the surgery, thus, there would likely be additional surgeries to correct the resulting complications.

There are two popular implants for breast enlargement, which are saline (filled with saline or sterile saltwater) and silicone (filled with silicone gel), but according to an associate professor of surgery at Northwestern University’s Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago, Laurie Casas, both saline and silicone implants do not last forever, as some break while some deflate and have to be changed. “Patients have to deal with that reality; nothing lasts forever,” she told WebMD, a website that provides valuable health information and tools for managing health.

Another risk associated with breast implants is a rare form of cancer, called anaplastic large cell lymphoma. The Food and Drug Administration in the United States, while issuing the warning in 2017, said the cancer might have killed about nine persons already, regardless of whether it’s saline or silicone implant.

“As of February 1, 2017, the FDA has received a total of 359 medical device reports of breast-implant-associated ALCL, including nine deaths,” the FDA said, advising that people should take some caution before going for any implant.

While also cautioning women who are contemplating breast implant, the World Health Organisation said the cancer could take up to 10 years to develop. It explained that the cancer often presents itself as an accumulation of seroma fluid between the implant and the surrounding fibrous capsule. It also noted that early detection and removal of the implant could be the possible solution.

“All of the information to date suggests that women with breast implants have a very low, but increased risk of developing ALCL compared to women who do not have breast implants,” FDA officials said on their website.

More incisively, the FDA, on its website, identified the risks to include pain in the nipple or breast areas, changes in nipple and breast sensation, rupture of implants and capsular contracture, which is a breast augmentation complication that develops when internal scar tissue forms a tight or constricting capsule around a breast implant, contracting the breast until it becomes misshapen and hard.

The other complications, according to FDA, include the fact that while some can breastfeed despite the implant, some may not be able to breastfeed because the breast tissue and glands that produce milk could have been lost during the surgery; and it is not yet known whether some silicone could pass through the shell into the breast milk during breastfeeding, which could affect such a child.

Others include skin rashes around the breast, shifting of the silicone, usually caused by gravity or trauma, risk of infections that accompany surgery and in this case could lead to the removal of the implant, the incision site might not heal on time, deflation, due to the leakage of the saltwater in the saline solution, chest wall or underlying rib cage could appear deformed, the skin around the breast could shrink, the breasts could appear uneven in appearance in terms of size, shape or breast level, which could prompt desperate moves to package them or consider another surgery to avoid embarrassment.

“Many of the changes to your breast following implantation may be cosmetically undesirable and irreversible and the longer you have breast implants, the more likely you are to experience local complications and adverse outcomes,” the FDA warns.

A Birmingham-based woman, named Dennie Lees, who had earlier undergone breast implant, said she almost lost her life in 2016 when her breasts burst. She paid £2,375 (over N1.2m) for the first surgery.

In a report by UK Metro, she said the explosion occurred few days after her surgery in Belgium. Lees said a nurse told her that she would have died overnight if she had not gone back straight to the hospital immediately she felt ripple sensation in her left breast, after the second surgery.

And beyond the risks associated with surgery, the Cancer Research organisation in the UK warned people against using pills for enhancements. “Because we don’t know enough about the long term safety and effectiveness of breast enhancement pills, we recommend that you don’t use them,” it added.

It also warned that people who have breast cancer should not use such pills, warning that the pills could interfere with the cancer treatments.

Butt surgery also fraught with uncertainties

While many people seem to focus on breast enlargement and its effects, studies have revealed that butt enlargement, usually through surgery, is as risky as the former.

In fact, a report by Mail Online showed that at least 15 women died from butt implants between 2011 and 2015, and a 45-year-old Venezuelan woman who also underwent the surgery said, “It hurts so much I can’t sit down for even five minutes.”

And it should be noted that inability to sit down, owing to severe pains, is one of the complications such women have to live with. Unlike the breast enlargement procedure, the synthetic substance injected into the butt has been found to be unstable and could move to any part of the body, which could result in deformity or even death, as it could find its way to the lungs.

A 25-year-old lady, Janelle Edwards, died in 2016 after her failed plastic surgery. New York Daily News had reported that Edwards, a mother of two daughters, lived in pains. It was later found out that she died as a result of blood clot, which was caused by the surgeries she had recently.

Her sister, Samantha, was reported to have said that the operations – breast enlargement, a tummy tuck and butt implants, which she did at Dominican Republic killed her. One of her neighbours was also quoted as saying the deceased was in pains even before she died.

A consultant endocrinologist, Dr. Michael Olamoyegun, stressed that though people do it for fashion and to look sexier, there are “so many” risks associated with it.

He also noted that the complications are usually more with the butt enlargement than breasts enlargement, because the implant for butt is bigger.

He identified the associated risks to include the risk of the surgery itself, the risk of the anaesthesia because such persons would be placed under general or regional anaesthesia. He said each surgery has its own inherent complications, coupled with the risk of the implant itself.

He added, “The major complications associated with it include haemorrhage (bleeding) during surgery, there can be infections, the implant being inserted into the body is a foreign material to the body, so it can cause allergy as well as attract infection. So, some people can react to the implant; it’s usually a synthetic material.

“There can be rejection of the implant by the body, but the most feared complication is the rupture of that implant. Once it ruptures, it causes ulceration, which can lead to necrosis, in which case the blood supply to that region could be cut off.”

Necrosis is the death of most or all of the cells in an organ or tissue due to disease, injury, or failure of blood supply.

He said the complications apply to both breasts and butt implant “but the ulceration could be more for butt implant, because the size of the implant put in the butt is bigger than the one in the breasts. So, the failure is higher in the butt than in the breasts. The same thing with the ulceration and necrosis.”

It is equally worthy of note that not every man loves ‘them’ big, and as previously advised by marriage counsellors, sex therapists and psychologists, people do not have to go for organ enlargement to have a satisfactory sexual experience. Rather, they advised that couples should make the most of what they have, especially by communicating intimately with their partners.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]