The strength of sex (2)
Funmi Akingbade

Twenty-six, if she moans, it feels good. If she wisely takes your hands off or roughly pushes them off, you are hurting her.

Twenty-seven, you should keep your nails trimmed and well kempt; a woman doesn‘t like you touching her sensitive areas if you have rough or long fingernails. This could cause small cuts or painful ulcers.

Twenty-eight, if you are going down on her, the whole point is to use your mouth too. Don‘t just use your fingers. This will keep her begging for more and you will wonder if this is actually your wife.

Twenty-nine, just as you like her kissing almost every part of your body, a wife loves that too, especially if you fondle her breasts.

Thirty, if you are kissing her breast and nipples and leading down to her belly button, don’t stop. This will only frustrate her. Instead, if you aren’t going to go down to her sensitive parts, just roam round her breast, belly and the rest in a more provocative manner.

Thirty-one, many husbands have sincerely and secretly pleaded with me to advise their wives to do more than they are doing right now sexually. Well, l still believe that husbands can do the job better by teaching their wives what they want. For instance, many husbands like oral sex and if their wives appreciate this fact, their sex lives will be healthier and their marriages livelier than ever.

Thirty-two, most men, whether married, widowed, single, or otherwise, are attracted to a sexually provocative, confrontational, and stimulating and challenging lady, regardless of her husband’s status in the society.

Thirty-three, when you do oral sex, does it occur to you that this form of sexual gratification could also turn you on?

Thirty-four, husbands, if you want oral sex from your wife, you should be willing to teach her how to do it.

Thirty-five, the truth is that while teaching her, both of you will definitely enjoy yourselves.

Thirty-six, I mean real and memorable fun.

Thirty-seven, both of you can shower together, you can go ahead and tell her to put your penis in her hands, use the soap on it, lather it up and wash it, play with it, and let her see how it responds to her touches.

Thirty-eight, if there is enough room in the shower, gently help her to kneel down in front of you and look closely at it to see how clean it is before flipping her tongue over the tip.

Thirty nine, she can even close her mouth around it and feel it grow hard in her warm moist mouth.

Forty, now if she feels comfortable about this, she can start off in the shower or get off her knees and head to somewhere a bit more comfortable, like the bed, where she can continue what she has started doing in a different position.

Forty-one, you can lie on the bed, while she kneels between your knees and take your penis in her hands, rub it with any friendly lotion, feel how slippery and sensual it is, while gently massaging the shaft with both hands and occasionally teasing the head, as well as paying particular attention to the underside of the head.

Forty-two, to maximise the pleasure, she must be very gentle because the penis is very sensitive and tender though powerful.

Forty-three, she should pay particular attention to the frenulum [the underside of the penis], as it is the most sensitive part of the glands [the head of the penis].

Forty-four, tell her to try and talk or tease you to an erotic and pleasing level and make her see that she can do it.

Forty-five, the point is it is safe to teach your woman than to go around town sampling other women.

Forty-six, one of the most boring moves wives make when having sex with their husband is to lie down in bed as if their limbs are paralysed. This is so because they are not taught to be lively, energetic, dramatic, active, dynamic, and full of life in bed.

Forty-seven, they are mostly taught not to deny their husbands whenever they ask for sex. However, giving in to their husband’s desires is far less important than being inactive.

Forty-eight, so, tell your wife to run her hands on your inner thighs, as her hands move on your shaft.

Forty-nine, tell her to lower her mouth on your shaft and make some upward and downward motion, as much as she can.

Fifty, she can also wrap her hands firmly, but not too tight around the penis with her mouth sucking you sensually deep as far as she can go.

Fifty-one, if she keeps sucking fast and even faster, she should also keep stroking you until you feel the need to penetrate her vagina; this is heaven!

Fifty-two, on the other hand, she can use her free hand to massage your testicles by gently squeezing them and running her fingernails over them.

Fifty-three, I know this may be a big thing to ask as an African man, but if this is what you want, go ahead and tell her and because of her love for you, she will definitely try her best to make you happy.

Fifty-four, by this time, the pleasure you have always fantasised about will become a reality and served on a silver platter.

Fifty-five, one thing is certain: this is an experience your wife will want to give you, when she sees the look of satisfaction on your face.

Fifty-six, this is because the penis of the man has a way of throbbing with anticipation as her tongue works its magic and wonder on it.

Fifty-seven, for the wives who do not like the taste, when you feel your husband’s penis throbbing and you feel his hips begin to thrust against you, take your mouth off his penis and with your hand wrapped firmly around his shaft, pump faster and faster.

Fifty-eight, let your husband tell you how fast and how hard to stroke him as he gets nearer and nearer to orgasm or climax.

Fifty-nine, there’s a fine line between turn-ons and turn-offs. The best sex is when a married partner knows the difference. I call these “brakes and accelerators.” Married couples’ sexuality is like driving a car. You can’t go real far, real fast, or without damage if you’re driving with your foot on the brake.

Sexual brakes are those things that hinder your arousal or enjoyment of sex such as making love when you’re exhausted, feeling criticised by your partner, or trying to be sexually intimate when your in-laws are staying in the bedroom next door.

Sixty, while sexual accelerators are those things that lead to greater interest and arousal. Some might be feeling rested and relaxed, compliments and affirmations about each other’s character and/or body, or daydreaming about positive sexual experiences with your spouse.

Some of the biggest problems come when one spouse thinks he’s accelerating, while his mate is feeling the brakes.

Questions and answers

What can help please?

Hi Funmi, I am over 40 years old and trying to conceive. I have taken birth control pills for years, so I figure out it may take a little longer for me to get pregnant. Please do you know of any natural herb that could aid me? A friend of mine said it would help if I take lots of unripe bananas. According to her, unripe banana is a fertility booster. Another friend of mine said she took guaifenesin medicine which she said improved her cervical mucus helping the sperm to swim freely. Honestly, I am clueless. What would you advise?

Beauty Owen

Hi, Beauty, although if I had known you before now, I would have advised you against taking any birth control pills until you had seen a family planning official for proper and adequate guide. This is because drugs have side effects which may either be seen immediately or later. Besides, these family planning officials are well trained to guide you against any minimal or no reactions with your drug of choice for your family planning method. Also, because you took birth control pills for years, it does not necessarily mean it will take a little longer for you to get pregnant. It has been noticed that most women ovulate again the second time about two weeks after they stop the pill. As soon as the body releases an egg, there is a possibility of getting pregnant. Also, if you’re worried you have a higher chance of miscarriage, don’t be; that’s a myth, especially if you have been well advised.

Maybe you heard that unripe bananas boost fertility or yams make you more likely to have twins. There isn’t enough scientific evidence that shows that any particular food helps sperm meet the egg faster. Instead, aim to eat more fruits and veggies, whole grains, healthy fats, and different kinds of protein to keep your body healthy. You might have heard that some people claimed that an ingredient called guaifenesin in these medicines improves the cervical mucus, so it’s easier for sperm to reach an egg. But there’s no scientific evidence to back up that idea.

However, the perceived odd against you might be your age. This is because according to science, a fertile 30-year-old woman has a 20 per cent chance of getting pregnant each month. That means for every 100 healthy 30-year-old women who try to make a baby this month, 20 will conceive. The other 80 can try again. Women are the most fertile in their 20s. More women are having babies later in life, compared with past decades, but the odds do drop after age 30. A pregnancy could still happen right up until one goes into menopause, but with age, you might be more likely to need fertility treatment.

I would also want you to know that if you weigh too little, your menstrual cycle may become irregular. Or your body just may stop ovulating. Being overweight can have the same effect. Obesity is also linked to other issues that affect pregnancy, such as thyroid disease and diabetes. And please note that if you have sex closer to when you ovulate, your chance of having a boy or girl is same-same. You have a 50/50 chance of having a boy or a girl, no matter when in your cycle you have sex. The dad’s sperm decides the gender. About half of his sperm will make a boy, and the other half will make a girl. The gender of your baby depends on which sperm reaches your egg first.

Remember that it takes you and your husband to get pregnant and some men can become new fathers in their 60s or later. But research shows their biological clocks tick, too. Women become less fertile after age 35. The reason: As they get older, they have fewer eggs, and the eggs become less healthy. Fertility changes in men don’t happen as suddenly, but age can still affect a man’s ability to have sex and the health of his sperm.

Can the use of painkiller drugs lead to erectile dysfunction?

I discovered that shortly after I started using this particular pain killer medicine, my sexual performance started singing a new song. I usually have this unbearable life-threatening pain on my lower limbs and my friend introduced me to opioids for the pain, which helps a lot. But few days after I started using the drug, I started noticing that I could not go for three rounds of sex as I used to. And it has gradually reduced to not being able to even get an erection now. The drugs have helped against the pain, but I am not sure whether that is the reason for my inability to perform my marital duty any longer. Please what can I do?

Hakeem Milikii

Opioids can also be called narcotics. Opioids are a kind of pain medication only doctors should give under strict recommendation. If anyone ever introduces you to any drug, kindly see your doctor and read the side effects first before taking them. One property of this drug is that it allows the medication to get into your system quickly and it also has a long-acting property and of course when you take them for too long, it may be hard to stop, and I think that is the level you are now. And unfortunately, all medications have side effects and opioids are no different. The most common ones are constipation, depression, hot flashes, erectile dysfunction, weight gain and weak immune system. The longer you take opioids, the greater the chances that your body will get dependent on them and the worse your sexual performances will be.

If that happens, you may have withdrawal symptoms — like anxiety, a fast heart rate, sweating, nausea, and chills — when you stop taking them. This is more likely if you try to stop too quickly instead of tapering off slowly. Talk to your doctor about how to stop safely.

Where is this penis numbness coming from?

I have been getting numbness after orgasm in the last couple of weeks. It only affected a part of my penis. Now, it has almost affected my entire penis. There is still feeling inside of my penis, I just can’t feel exterior skin stimulation. Slight touches go unnoticed and temperatures as well. I have never masturbated before. Why exactly is this going on? Did I overdo it? What can I do to help it heal if it can heal at all? I’m 42 years old.

Emmanuel Malolaje

Since you said you have not been masturbating, then I would advise you eat lots of food that will supply all forms of vitamins and minerals. There is definitely a low supply of minerals that help the nerves of the penis to function perfectly.

Please who is more visual, man or woman?

Hi Funmi, can you help out here? I would love my husband to look nice, neat and smart when at home especially before sex, because the way he looks and appears really helps my libido and enhances my appetite for sex. But this has been an area of great contention because he always insists his look has nothing to do with our sex life, saying must he dress for sex as if he is going for an interview; that he wants to be himself in his own home’. And each time he says that or looks that way, I always lose taste for sex. He is a nice man but when he is at his best look and appearance, I always feel horny. How can I manage this please?

Mrs. Tina Oyeluekon

Actually, it is a cliché that is backed up by scientific data, that when it comes to sex, men tend to be more visual than women. The point is that it is not that women aren’t visual; it’s just that they have more other avenues to arousal for them than men. Men are likely to be turned on most by visual signals, promptings, signs and cues. If you really want to do it with his best looks on, try to subtly make him do that. If you can let your imagination go back to those days you always captivated his heart and make him do your bidding, I think it will be clever to go back to those things you did. But pestering him about his look may send a negative vibe to him.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]