Preserving your virginity without God is great distress!
Temilolu Okeowo

Dear Aunty Temilolu,

Is this virginity worth keeping at all? Life has never been as bad for me as it is right now. I’m in my final year and can’t afford all I need for my final year project. Even to feed now is a serious challenge for me. My parents stopped sending me money in school because they can’t afford to and all the men out there either want me to send my nude pictures or have sex with them before they render any help. I’ve cried and cried and cried but to no avail. All my school mates who have boyfriends, sugar daddies, sleeping with lecturers are comfortable, happy and living a life of ease. Why can’t God arise for the sake of those of us who wish to keep our virginity till our wedding night? It’s such a crazy and wicked world and I’m tired and so willing to get deflowered if that’s what will bring me comfort!

23

My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian sisters,

A lot of you are passing through what J’s dealing with right now and many of you would have preserved your virginity but for your crucial needs. J’s hoarse voice and her cry of anguish haunted me for the next 24 hours after she called. I was badly shaken; I kept thinking of what to do to assist her and almost wished I were God. When I returned her call the next day, I was taken aback when she told me she can’t remember the last time she prayed. She told me she stopped praying!

Girls…girls…girls, in the first instance I don’t know how anyone can fight the lust of the flesh and resist the devil without the fullness of God. Zech.4:6 On the other hand, do you think stupid, bad devil is happy you want to do things God’s way? It (devil) will always cause you pain and bombard you with reasons you should do things its way which is exactly what J and so many of you are dealing with at the moment. The spirit of the world which most of you are submerged in is in contention with the spirit of God. You can’t be lukewarm and stand against the devil and its onslaught. Which power do you have?

Unfortunately, the average Nigerian girl appears to be into prostitution as a result of financial hardship! Even their parents support a good number of them because they don’t want them to keep suffering their financial inadequacies. Also, many girls from wealthy homes no longer have qualms getting what they want with what they have-their bodies! How tragic! No wonder someone once commented as follows:

“In Nigeria of today, moral and family values went out of the window decades ago; virginity is the beginning of poverty, hardship, and hunger for any girl that is not from a well to do background in our society unfortunately.” It broke my heart into pieces but I am convinced that no matter how bad the situation is, there’s something inside us all that can make us very great and supply not only our needs but all the money in the world.

I really do understand what J and other girls like her experience almost on a daily basis! Indeed we are in a crazy world where almost every man wants to have what he sees as his “pound of flesh” and brazenly asks for it for any little help rendered. I often wonder if they ever consider their daughters may suffer same fate some day! Believe me, such men are not only sick upstairs but highly depraved! And I can tell you for a fact that if you are not having a very close walk with God-grabbing His hand if possible and keeping it under your armpit while walking with Him-you will forever be faced with evil men harassing you for sex before they can assist you!

My darling J,

I discovered the goldmine you are at our very first meeting and for you to keep your virginity till your final year as pretty and attractive as you are is not a small feat! One thing I know about God is He’s faithful to those who are faithful to Him! You must find a way to get closer to Him and get Him 100 per cent on your side such that even if you go to world’s number one lecher, the power of God in you will subdue him to be merciful and help you without asking for sex in return. May you graduate in flying colours and get a fantastic job with speed! God glorified biblical Esther and Joseph and so shall He glorify you in Jesus mighty name!

I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO (not Temilolu okeowo girls club or TEMILOLU OKEOWO Girls Club group). Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu.

Scam Alert: Temilolu okeowo girls club page and group as well as Temilolu cares for you are fake facebook accounts.

Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a Secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and State of domicile to 07086620576.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]