When a father is too vulnerable to regret
Elizabeth Badejo

A father’s role in the life of his children cannot be overemphasized especially in today’s complicated world of dysfunctional family settings where separations and divorces have become the order of the day.

A father who has sacrificed his time and presence for his children will certainly watch them growing up to develop a strong sense of self and they will be more confident in their abilities to make good choices too. Unfortunately not every child is blessed with a devoted father especially when the family setting has been plagued by the strong winds of bitterness, regrets and lack of forgiveness.

Lost place & purpose

The truth is that divorce can destroy a ‘person’ and as every individual is formed within a protective shell of a family unit, once one is broken, the rest of the fragments will always remain fragile. A father who separates himself from his children either intentionally or without intention can become vulnerable too.

Love is irreplaceable

The truth is that fatherhood is a challenging and irreplaceable role which has a great impact on the emotional, psychological and intellectual wellbeing of children. When a father has been involved in raising his children and suddenly finds himself separated from them, it can be very devastating for both father and children and his love can be irreplaceable too.

Fathers who show love to their daughters and accept them as they are help foster a positive sense of self in the female. Absentee fathers on the other hand, can send their daughters down a dark path of dejection which can lead to other emotional problems.

He is vulnerable too

Fathers can also become vulnerable even though you don’t often see that side of them. It is therefore important to understand the pressures they may be facing at times and become realistic about your expectations especially if they are also trying to pick up the broken pieces too.

A product of his time

Many fathers are products of their own time, a period when men were powerful, strong and making mistakes were natural privileges only bestowed upon men. Unfortunately, the world has evolved around them and what was acceptable then has become unacceptable and many are now clueless on how to separate the old from the new.

One last chance

Perhaps you have walked out on your children and you still carry around a heart of guilt but your ego coupled with lack of regret has constantly consoled your mind; take those steps today and do the needful; reclaim your peace of mind.

Or perhaps you have continued to ignore the pleas of your daughter waiting for you to be a part of the most significant moments of her life; you should feel deeply honoured and privileged to play that part especially when it has been reserved for you since the day she was born.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]