Coping with an absentee partner
Living with an absentee partner can create feelings of anger and frustration which may lead to the breakup of a relationship. Follow these tips on how to cope with an absentee partner

Be patient

According to www.goodmenproject.com, give your partner time and space if they need it to process their emotions, don’t let your anxiety and desire for certainty drive you to push them into sharing the reason for their absence. Because it could be the only way they know how to manage their emotions. So, learn how to manage your emotions so that you will be able to understand your partner better.

Don’t argue

Give your partner the room to discover themselves because it could be their job or something much more serious that keeps them away. Try as much as possible to avoid arguments that may further pull them away from you. Also, remember that you are looking for ways to strengthen the relationship. When you have the opportunity to discuss with your partner, tell him or her how much you care and would love for them to be around more often. Though it could be difficult not to argue, learn another way to communicate with him or her better because it will develop a deeper connection between you.

Look after yourself

It is very important to look after your well-being. Living with an absentee partner can create feelings of anger and frustration. However, it’s important to confront any negative emotions and work through them with your partner when they are around. Make sure you spend time doing things that make you feel good and don’t be afraid to seek counsel if you need to. When your partner is not present, ensure that you are busy making yourself happy. Pursue your goals, discover your passion and work towards them. This way, you will become a better version of yourself.

Fight fairly and effectively

Do not throw anything he or she has expressed back at him or her during an argument because when you use one’s feelings against one, it may result badly and further drift partners apart. Listen to what he or she has to say and try not to judge your spouse. When you fight, be clear about the outcome you want. If you are finding it difficult to reach out to your partner, ask him or her how you can communicate better.

Be a good listener

This could be harder than you imagine, especially if your partner starts talking about things that concern you and you want to answer back. But encourage him or her to talk to you and be prepared to face uncomfortable issues that may come up. Learn about your own fault in your partner’s behaviour. Talking to your partner may involve making difficult decisions. So, it is important to show him or her that you are open-minded and prepared to consider every possibility but don’t agree to a decision that may change your life forever. This is because your partner may see things differently as he or she comes closer. Avoid telling him or her about the things he or she had been working for them, rather help your partner to see the positives in his or her own lives.