Forgiveness does not have to undermine your values
Elizabeth Badejo

[email protected]

www.stringmynaijawedding.com …08097360766

When separations and divorces are not settled amicably, certain grievances are left unresolved, leaving the concerned parties exceedingly bitter for years if not for life. While the effects can be distressing for both parties, it can be more traumatising for the children involved, especially if a parent is too egotistical about the feelings on his/her children.

In continuation of last week’s article in which a bride-to-be is confronted with the dilemma of whether to tell her estranged father about her forthcoming wedding or not, the last paragraph of the letter states:

“My fiancé and I have opened up conversations on marriage and every time my father’s name comes up, it always sets me back to my obligations and how best to manage the situation without opening the wounds again.”

Even though the bride-to-be has continued to live her life without her father’s participation, every attempt to involve him in her life has been a stumbling block. On the other hand, the thought of fulfilling her obligation to her estranged father now that she is about to set out on this very significant life’s journey also leaves her questioning her own obligation as a daughter and absolutely confused too.

Feelings are unreal

Although feelings are real, they do not always reflect the reality. It is important that you allow your heart to lead you to the right answers to the question of whether you want to inform your father about your wedding or not. The apprehension of trying to imagine your father’s reaction when you break the news to him looks like an enormous task bringing back painful memories of times you have tried to reach out to him in the past.

Value your happiness

It must certainly be an emotionally time for you and your fiancé, therefore you have to support each other at this time so that the issue doesn’t affect your capacity to take care of other important aspects of your big day. It is obvious you are paying more attention to the role of a father on his daughter’s big day and forgetting the main reason why you are getting married in the first place. Start paying more attention to your fiancé and begin to value those things that bring you happiness and remember that love has its own reward and leaves all the other secondary effects to take care of themselves.

Follow your heart

Perhaps you may want to bury the pain of rejection for good and start your new life without him, but whatever choice you make and however hard it will be to make it, you will be taking a chance which carries a deep and emotional impact especially since you are not sure of your father’s intentions too as he is no longer the father you used to know. When you look back after your wedding, you will either be looking back at having made the right or wrong decision. Whichever way it goes, celebrate the family you have today and leave the uncertainty for later.

NOTE

But guess what? You must never allow your feelings and circumstances define your obligation after all the storms that you have overcome. Nevertheless, do not undermine the importance of forgiveness or the values you have built through your experiences.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]