How do you manage a partner that spends extravagantly?
Habits, they say die hard. As singles, men and women cultivate so many habits such as drinking, womanising, procrastination, smoking, etc. There are others whose habit is spending on impulse and extravagantly. So when they enter into relationships, some people are able to moderate or even drop some of the habits while others find it very difficult to stop. Saturday Punch asked some Nigerians how they would manage a spouse who spends on impulse and extravagantly

I will pray for him

Adeniyi Ifeoluwa

If I have complained about the way he freely spends money and he doesn’t listen to me then I’ll have to keep telling him the same thing till he gets tired of listening to me. I will sing it into his ears until it irritates him. Before he leaves for work, I will tell him to mind how he spends; when he comes back, I will ask him how he spent his money to make sure he didn’t spend too much. I know I cannot do it on my own, so I will have to call God in to help me. I believe that with God and reminding him steadily, he will get to understand that I’m not just doing it to piss him off but I truly care about him and how he uses the resources available to him. No matter how tough a man may be, a well constructed speech can get him to change his ways.

I’ll make sure she doesn’t spend beyond budget

Augustine Abraham

It may be hard to control a lady who is already used to spending heavily but the best thing to do is to have a plan, and that plan is a budget. I will make sure she spends only on things that are in the budget and nothing else. Since the money is coming from me, I will let her know that I will be giving her only a certain amount of money and she has to spend it only on things we both planned for. Anything outside the plan or budget must be eliminated. If she doesn’t stick to the budget, then I guess she is beyond redemption.

I will operate a joint account with him

Ikezie Jennifer

I will try to know how much his salary is, then I will suggest to him to spend a certain amount and save the rest. I will even open a joint account with him where he can be depositing the money so that if he makes any withdrawal, I would know about it. I will also advise him to always make a list of what he wants to buy so as to know the relevant ones and the unnecessary. That way, it will be easy to put his spending in check. This will only work if he truly wants to be helped because you cannot really tell a man what he should do with his money. I can’t go to his work place to demand that his money be deposited in our joint account. He would only do that if he also has the will not to be spending lavishly.

I’ll only give her money for basic things

Arogundade Patrick

I don’t even pray for God to give me a woman that spends too much because such a woman can wreck a home. But if it happens, then I will let her know that I can’t keep up with her unnecessary spending. I will only give her money for things that are necessary such as making her hair, buying new clothes once in a while and some pocket money for other basic things. If she wants to go and buy all the clothes in a super market, then she’ll need to get a good paying job that can fund her expensive habit because such money will not come from me. I work hard for my money and no lady should spend it anyhow no matter how much love I have for her.

I’ll check his daily spending

Agu Jacinta

If I notice my partner spends too much, I will try as much as possible to check his spending daily. I will also let him know that money is never certain. That you have it now does not mean it will always be there, hence the need to save for rainy days. I will also suggest some investments where he can put in his money to yield interest. With the current economic situation in the country, every right thinking man would have to cut down some excesses and spending at impulse. If he doesn’t listen to me, then I’ll just keep praying for him and hope for a miracle from God.

I’ll help her understand ‘needs and ‘wants’

Abba Ochigbo

I will simply help her understand the concept of needs and wants. It will help her to put herself in check. If possible, I would seek means to limit her sources of getting funds for unnecessary spending. If she is to go out for shopping, I would encourage her to make a list and whatever is not on the list should not be bought. If I have time, then I would go with her whenever she is going on a shopping spree. I will serve as her reminder, constantly whispering into her ears and telling her why she should drop things that aren’t needed. All the same, I feel marriage has a way of making people responsible and some habits would be dropped naturally due to certain demands. No matter how lavish she is, she’ll cut it down once she is married.

I will take him for therapy sessions

Juliet Egbo

I don’t think I need an overspending partner because I overspend myself. What I need is a man that can put me in check. I feel as a man, you should be able to control how you spend because you are the head of the family and as such you have a whole lot of responsibilities that will require money. A man shouldn’t be spending on unnecessary things but on things that would help him and his family. He should consider his children’s future. I will talk to him as a partner and if need be, I’ll talk to his friends and family. If the approach doesn’t work, then I will take him for therapy sessions.

I don’t mind as long as I have money

Joshua Abenga

If the money is there, then why not? She can go ahead and spend extravagantly, but if there isn’t enough money to support such lifestyle, then she will have to cope with the little she has and that would require cutting down on excess spending. I don’t think I would stop her from spending too much because I love my woman looking good and happy and if shopping is what rocks, then it’s fine by me. The only limitation would be if the money is not there. I will simply tell her that we need to adjust and live with the amount we earn so as not to go into debt.

I’ll give him reason why he should spend on self development

Boluwatife Ajetumobi

If he keeps spending anytime there is money in his hands, then I guess it is a habit he must have formed overtime. You can’t just talk him into stopping in just a day or even a month. I will continuously remind him that the friends he keeps going out with to drink and make merry may not always be there when the money is no longer coming as it used to. I will give him reasons why he needs to spend more on self development rather than fun. Fun will not secure his future but self development will. If he should go broke now, all those friends he was trying to impress would run away, leaving him dry and then he will have himself to blame.

She either reasons with me or takes a walk

Emmanuel Ipuole

I believe there is nothing dialogue cannot address. I will sit her down and talk sense into her. If she doesn’t listen, I will break up with her. I’m a young business man still trying to come up and the last thing I need is a woman that would spend my money anyhow. I won’t even go into a relationship with such a person because I spend my time to study people before professing love. I will go out on dates with her and engage her in conversations. If I realise she is petty in reasoning, I won’t date her for anything. I don’t think anyone can control a lady who is already used to a lavish lifestyle. It’s either you rise to the demands or walk away.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]