Coping with long-distance marriage
No one imagines living separately from their spouse. However, this is the reality for some people especially if their partners had to move due to job related issues. These tips will help you cope with a long-distance marriage

Display photos

According to www.huffingtonpost.com, displaying photos of you and your partner in a spot where you can regularly see them helps a lot. The idea is that ‘out of sight, out of mind’ may have some validity; so, keeping a photo of your partner in view helps keep them alive and well in your psyche. Although it will take much more than photos to keep your union strong, it doesn’t hurt to have a visual reminder of your partner’s existence as proof that they do exist and how much you love them.

Don’t make assumptions

When the only form of interaction is text, email and video calls, it is very easy to make assumptions that your spouse is no longer interested in you. It is crucial to keep in check if you are just being insecure because of the distance. If this is the case, agree to make regular check-ins with each other in order not to create room for false assumptions.

Use technology to your advantage

When you are in a long-distance marriage, it is advisable to use technology to your advantage and schedule time for video calls or Skype with your spouse. Technology is a great way to stay connected with your partner when they are away.

Act like you live together

Long distance naturally creates two different lives. It is easy for those different lives to create division and separation which could be destructive to the relationship. Acting like you would if you were living in the same house can minimise this problem. Tell your partner about your day and what is going on in your life. It builds the connection that overcomes disconnect that natural accompanies the long distance.

Keep your business between the two of you

It’s easy to go outside of the relationship and turn to others for advice, validation or to vent your anger. However, sometimes seeking discussions with others can only exacerbate the feelings and frustrations between the couple. No one really understands the intricacies of the relationship more than the two of you; so, give each other the benefit of the doubt and lean on each other before others.

Manage your expectations

Before you settle for a long-distance marriage, the first step is to discuss what it will look like with your spouse. For example, discuss how often you will talk to each other, what some of your goals are and how often you will visit each other.

Set an end date

If the long-distance marriage is work-related, try your best to establish an end date to it – for example, the number of years your partner needs to stay away because knowing the end date helps you deal with issues together. You both should set the end date and arrange your efforts accordingly.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]