Is homosexuality a function of nature or choice?
It is a given that man is naturally attracted to a woman sexually and they go ahead to get married and have children if they so wish. But there are situations where the reverse is the case; when a man is attracted to a fellow man sexually or women to women. In fact, same sex relationships and marriages have been legalised in some parts of the world. Despite calls and threats from international communities and other LGBT rights movements for homosexuality to be legalised in Nigeria, there is still a standing law that prescribes 14-year jail term for anyone caught in the act. Is sexual preference a natural phenomenon or a choice? Saturday Punch asked some Nigerians.

Nature is perfect -Benedict George

I believe God made everything perfect. If homosexuality was a natural aberration, then we could have been seeing other animals such as goats displaying such tendencies of wanting to mount a fellow male. In my own opinion, any animal that displays such tendencies is bio-engineered or a kind of research by scientist. While growing up and even up till now that I’m grown, I have never seen or heard of a male animal having interest in a male. This is why parents should let their children associate with the opposite sex so that they won’t have to breed feelings for the same sex due to lack of opportunity.

It is a thing of the mind=Ifeanyi Paul

Parents will definitely not lead anyone astray. There are people who are not psychologically balanced. They see people going right and they decide to go left. From what I’ve seen in movies and also read in books, I think it has a lot to do with psychology. If anyone is exhibiting such traits and he’s not quickly rehabilitated, it could cause severe damage. You can’t really say it is nurtured because I don’t believe parents would encourage such from their children to go into homosexuality, given the stigma society places on it.

It is the work of the devil -Olasindi Olayinka

When it comes to homosexuality, so many things come to play but definitely, not nature. It has to do with the kind of friends you associate with and the school you attend. If you have so many people with such tendencies around you, it is very easy to develop such traits. In the world we live today, nothing is impossible. Wicked people can actually afflict someone with homosexuality, making him or her have sexual urge for the same sex. If you approach some homosexuals and ask them why they prefer the same sex, they can’t give you a reasonable answer. When you see that, just know the devil is at work.

God is against sodomy -Aloysius Adim

It can never be a function of nature because even the bible is against homosexuality. In fact in the days of the Israelites, when they were travelling from Egypt to the promised land, Moses read an injunction from God that if anyone should commit any act of homosexuality, such a person should be stoned to death. That should be in the book of Numbers in the bible. Sodom and Gomorrah got destroyed by God because of the act of sodomy and homosexuality. It is a phenomenon the bible has always frowned upon and people should desist from it.

It is the devil at work – Shola Fadeyi

Right from the beginning, God created a man and a woman, and there is an institution of marriage which was equally ordained by God. God had never at any point said that man should mate with man but man must be with a woman. There is no way homosexuality can be a function of nature. It is clearly a function of nurture, and nurture could mean peer group, thinking pattern of people and above of all, the influence of the devil in the lives of those who engage in it.

Children learn from what they see -Jenifer Madu

Many parents don’t even bother about how their children are faring, the company they keep and the kind of movies they watch. Teenagers these days are allowed to watch all forms of pornographic material which may stir up some kind of funny feelings in them. Social media has also aided the sudden increase in the number of homosexuals because so many abominable acts are portrayed online and made to look normal and fashionable. It is the duty of the parents to monitor their children and find out the kind of things they do, the things they watch and the kind of friends they keep. If not, the children will grow up to become what you didn’t bargain for.

It is absolutely a question of choice -Angela Ekwuaga

If a male child grows up with the mother and constantly sees the mother putting on make up and wearing heels, he may come to believe that is the normal way for anyone to look and dress, be it male or female. If nature plays any role, then you would see it physically, like some people who are hermaphrodites or suffer from hormonal imbalance such as a man growing breasts and a woman having a male sex organ and these can of course be corrected. But anyone who says he was born gay is lying because no one is born that way, rather it is a function of the things you see, hear and decide to try out.

This is the end time – Kehinde Owueye

The way of reasoning of many Nigerians is upside down. What they see people doing in foreign lands where they have no culture is what they want to imitate. Here we are well cultured and should not imitate them because it’s wrong. How can a government say women can marry women? The bible is totally against it. Right from the days of Adam and Eve in the garden of Eden, it has always been a man marrying a woman. We should keep praying for our children because the things they get to see and experience outside is very bad and it is an obvious sign that the world is coming to an end.

It is a product of acculturation -Amoke Philomena

These days, our people just try to imbibe other cultures and copy everything they see from foreigners. Naturally, God made it a man and a woman. He gave the man a woman as a companion. There was never a time in the bible where God instructed anybody to marry the same sex. It is an abominable man-made relationship. Even for those born with conflicting hormones, there are actually medical processes that can correct such defects and the person can function effectively and naturally as one gender.

No one is born a homosexual – Oma Pius

I know homosexuality is a practice that has been going on for a long time, before I was even born. But that does not make it a natural phenomenon. People are led into it by others and they too lead others and the circle widens. It is something that stirs up from the inside. People go into it because they just want to explore and know how it will feel to be with the same sex and before you know it, they get stuck. Maybe you watch a movie and see two girls kissing and you feel like trying it because you think it’s a fanciful thing. Some people also try it and it falls short of their expectations, so they quit.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]