What would you do if your wealthy parent wills all their wealth to charity?
Ojoi Igajah

Some of the world’s richest men like Bill Gates and Warren Buffet have willed almost all their wealth to charity or humanitarian causes. Such acts of benevolence often leave some people wondering if the billionaires are doing so to ensure that their names remain on people’s lips or to sincerely leave the world a better place. But whatever the case is, Saturday PUNCH asked Nigerians what they will do if they discovered that their wealthy parents have willed all their wealth to charity and left none for them.

He’ll pay for it – Keren Ubong-Akpan

He’ll pay for it. First, he doesn’t have the right to do that. I mean, who is he working hard for, charity? It is different if he donates part of what he has or even gives a huge amount of his money out, but not all his money. Anyway, he might want to do that to make his children work hard for themselves but for me, if he tries it, I’ll come up with some phony tale and get good money from him before he even goes through with it.

I’d feel really bad – Emmanuel Akindubuwa

The natural reaction would be to feel disappointed, not because I wouldn’t want to work to earn my own money or have a source of livelihood but because everyone enjoys a leverage. The fact that my father achieved something, I should be able to build on that. To me, that’s the essence of life, building upon the foundation laid by the previous generation. It’s biblical and moral by every standard for parents to leave a legacy for their children to build upon.

There’s no need to be angry – Halima Abdulfatai

If my father should do that then it’s a clear sign that I need to be responsible. I can’t question him or make him change his mind; I’ll just look for legitimate ways to make my own money. I might consider talking to him if he is still alive and if he says that’s what he wants then who am I to object? It’s his money; he worked for it so he has every right to do whatever he pleases with it.

It depends on my relationship with my parents – John Joseph

If I had a cordial relationship with my father and all of a sudden I learnt he had given all his wealth to charity, I’ll ask him why he took such a decision. He may have his reasons. If he had spent enough money to help me develop and be independent to the point that I don’t really need his money, then I’ll understand. But if that is not the case and he is not giving any tangible reason, then life goes on. Maybe he feels I may not be able to manage his wealth properly.

I’ll go through the different stages of denial – Aderinsola Adeosun

I’m going to deny it at first, then I will get really angry but I’ll have to accept it. At the end of the day, the money belongs to him and if he decides to will all his properties to charity then so be it. I would talk to him and ask why he did that. If he has a good reason then fine, but if he makes flimsy excuses, I would be really mad and probably may not talk to him for a long time.

Maybe charity is more important – Fidelis Patrick

If my father should do that, then I’ll just be led to believe I ought to make my own fortune and not eat from another man’s sweat. It will challenge me to make my own wealth with my own hands and I’m so certain that I’ll make it because there’s an old adage that says, “There is nothing that befalls a man that he wasn’t formed by nature to bear”. Let charity have it. They probably need it more than I do.

I will certainly have my own money – Faith Ayara

If my father built his empire from scratch with little or nothing, then I can equally achieve that. Even without his own money coming to me when he passes on, I would be sure of meeting people, having contacts that can go a long way to help me achieve greatness. Everything shouldn’t be about money. If I have quality education, good network and a fighting spirit, I should be able to surpass his wealth no matter how much he is worth.

It’s his wealth after all – Ambass Eugene

I will simply focus on other things rather than his wealth because if truth is to be told, my father’s properties are not mine. The only time I would have serious issues with him is if he didn’t help me establish properly. That is his duty whether he likes it or not. I didn’t bring myself to this world, he did. If he knew he would not invest in me then he should never have had a son. He could have just used his money to run a motherless babies home so he can be fully involved in charity.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]