Memories are built on things you do together today
Elizabeth Badejo

[email protected]

www.stringmynaijawedding.com …08097360766

One of the fondest memories you will forever cherish is your wedding which will always remain the happiest day in the lives of most married couples. As the years past you will both come to realise that lasting memories cannot be built on your wedding day alone. When you consider the pressures of marriages today and many other challenges that come along your ways as you steer the wheels of life together, it is therefore imperative to build many more memories and precious moments too.

Memories can only be created with time and presence because they are built on things you do together as a couple today and here are some of those simple everyday memories which you can start today if you haven’t already done so.

Showing gratitude

Gratitude speaks to the hearts and recognizes humility and the importance of kindness towards one another. Express gratitude for even the smallest things and take time out each day to evaluate the day’s activities so that you can both appreciate your individual contributions towards the success of your day. Give hugs and kisses to your wife each day, it creates a deep intimacy and a happy woman too.

Pray together

Through prayer, you are able to connect your emotions as well as understand the heart of your husband. When you reach the highs and lows of life in your marriage, prayer has the capacity to strengthen, reassure as well as restore your confidence. Praying is the most intimate thing you can do together as a couple. This is a step of faith you both take together to acknowledge God and His purpose for your marriage.

Eat together

Food is an essential part of human needs and they say that the best way into a man’s heart is through his stomach. Eating together will improve your communication skills if you are struggling to keep up with a very busy husband or one who seldom brings up a conversation.

It is also a good time to keep all the gadgets away and be fully present and engaged. Sharing is important in building any relationship and eating and sharing food together as a couple is a great way to form an everlasting bond and memory.

Think together

Study shows that men and women do not have the same thinking faculty. While women are said to be emotional thinkers, men think physically and both are useful tools to build confidence in your marriage. It is therefore important to think together even when your husband doesn’t think like you; your differences will create the opportunity for you to understand him better as you both grow in your marriage.

Sweat together

Sweating together through exercising, walking, riding or other forms of exercise is an essential component to keeping your marriage alive and healthy. Enrol in a gym together and improve your romantic relationship. The happiest couples are those who have found a way to wiggle around their physical and emotional obstacles and maintain a balance between the physical and sensual relationship too.

NOTES

It will take efforts, time and presence to create great memories in your marriage but nevertheless, they are those smallest things that you often take for granted that become a part of who you are for the rest of your lives together

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]