27 ways to prevent the vagina from attack (2)
Funmi Akingbade

Sixteen, another common swelling many women notice around the vagina is a sebaceous cyst, a small lump under the skin, which can be caused by a skin scratch or blocked holes or ducts. They can also vary in size and may contain some white material. Like a Bartholin’s cyst, it’s no big deal and can clear up on their own with warm compresses.

Seventeen, when the hair root or sac is infected, the vagina may be sore leading to folliculitis. Folliculitis is a blocked and infected hair sac. It often happens with pubic hair sacs. These sometimes look like little red bumps or whiteheads, and in bad cases, it may lead to scarring. Many women get them from shaving, sweaty house clothes, or even being in a hot sun day in and day out. They may clear up on their own with warm compresses or bath.

Eighteen, many wives have come to me showing me a scary picture of a big, bulging vein near the vagina. As scary as it may appear, it is nothing to be worried about. It is actually called a vulvar varicosity and it’s just as frightening as it sounds. It’s actually a varicose vein on the vulva, and many women are more prone to them during pregnancy. They may be caused by straining when going to the bathroom or standing for long periods of time. There isn’t much treatment for them, but luckily, they tend to go away on their own, if you take much fibre and do lots of Kegel exercise.

Nineteen, sometimes if you have any persistent itching, burning, redness, irritation, or unusual funny feeling, I always encourage going for a vaginal test. It’s probably nothing serious, but it’s most likely something that’s easily treated. Your best bet is to get tested for sexually transmitted diseases or infections like chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, trichomoniasis, and others. Nevertheless, I always emphasise that all of these STIs can also be totally symptomless sometimes, so get tested regularly regardless of whether or not you’ve got vagina problems.

Twenty, another thing that can go wrong with the vagina is when it unconsciously and involuntarily closes and starts vibrating as if you are experiencing muscle convulsions or cramps on the vaginal area. It naturally gets padlocked immediately your husband is about to insert the penis and it just goes vibrating. This case is called vaginismus. It is a painful condition where the vaginal muscles get so tight that they basically close off the opening of the vagina. It’s an involuntary reaction that’s usually thought to have some psychological causes. And obviously this can lead to serious discomfort, pain, or even the inability to have any kind of sex at all. Wives with this condition have been labelled frigid. Sometimes treatment may involve the use of vaginal dilators, relaxation exercises, or therapy to address any underlying causes.

Twenty-one, we have some categories of women who are born with an imperforate hymen, which is thicker hymenal tissue around the opening of the vagina. In this case, getting a tampon in or having intercourse becomes next to impossible. This is something that your gynaecologist could diagnose during an examination and it can be surgically fixed.

Twenty-two, urinary tract infection (UTI), is another thing that can make the vagina weep. Unfortunately, you might get this from having sex even with your darling husband (who is either clumsy at the game, or who does not observe good lifestyle hygiene, or who does not literarily know and cannot differentiate between your vaginal opening and your urethral opening, or who naturally hurries with sex or who just is a bad amateur in learning). This is because the urethra is so close to the vagina, and bacteria can travel all over the place. But you can obviously get them even if you’re not sexually active. Luckily, these are treated pretty easily with antibiotics.

Twenty-three, endometriosis is another reason why many inner sides of the vagina are in pains, especially during sex. Sometimes when a wife is having persistent pain on the vulva (the external opening of the vagina) that isn’t attributed to anything listed above, it might be vulvodynia. This is chronic vulvar pain where even just touching the area with a cotton swab can be miserable. With these cases, there would be a need to see a gynaecologist fast.

Twenty-four, irregular blood spots can make the vagina experience pain. However most of the time, irregular blood spotting may not be a big deal. It can happen around ovulation, or it might be some breakthrough bleeding if you’re taking birth control, especially if you’re on a low-dose version or one that only gives you a few periods a year. This is totally normal, but you can ask to switch to another method if it bothers you. Sometimes spotting can be a sign of an infection or health condition, so talk to your doctor if it persists.

But bleeding after sex is what I’d pay a little more attention to. This might just be from dryness (especially if it only happens once or twice), or from an extreme clumsy husband, but it may also signal an infection. Bleeding after sex can also be a symptom of cervical cancer, so do not take it lightly.

Twenty-five, the vagina can be painful when there are blisters or warts around the wall. HPV and genital herpes can both lead to warts or sores around the vagina and vulva. While there’s no cure for either of these viruses, there is definitely treatment. So, make sure you get tested, get treated, and take precautions so that you do not get re-infected.

Twenty-six, when there are lots of pelvic pains and maybe some discharge, pain during sex, or a low fever, this could be Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID). This happens when an infection or bacteria spreads from the vagina to the uterus, fallopian tubes, or ovaries. It often occurs when STIs like gonorrhea or chlamydia go untreated. So, seriously, remember to get tested regularly!

PID can come with tons of symptoms or none at all, but some major things to watch out for are severe pelvic pain, pain during sex or with urination, a low-grade fever, vomiting, and heavy discharge. If you have these symptoms, go and see your doctor as soon as possible. It can be treated with antibiotics, but it may unfortunately affect your fertility. The good thing for young women to remember is that one episode of PID can decrease fertility by about 10 per cent, two episodes can decrease it by about 25 per cent, and three episodes can decrease it by about 50 per cent. So, if you’ve got PID, it’s beneficial to jump on it right away.

Twenty-seven, estrogen fluctuations (especially with menopause, but also those related to child birth, breastfeeding, or your menstrual cycle) can cause vaginal dryness. An easy, short-term solution for genital dryness is to use a water- or silicone-based lubricant.

Questions and answers

My husband keeps giving me yeast infections

I love having sex with my husband. But he isn’t always very hygienic. I feel as though after I have sex with him when he hasn’t washed for a long time, I get a yeast infection. I’ve got two yeast infections in three months (or even a little bit less). I’d NEVER had a yeast infection before in my life. Is this possible to get yeast infections from this? And how do I tell him in a nice way?

Hannah

Have you had any talks with your husband about his personal hygiene practices? I know that it can be uncomfortable and that you don’t want to hurt his feelings. I think that having an open and honest conversation, no matter how uncomfortable, is the best. It will only be uncomfortable for a little while and hopefully you will both come out better for it. Please tell him, go take a shower or no sex!!! Then stick to it even if you have to say it over and again. Go to the doctor and get tested for Chlamydia, a common STD in young women. It might not be a yeast infection – the symptoms are similar. It is really important that you get tested for Chlamydia once a year if you are younger than 25 – your reproductive health is at risk here. Your doctor may need to investigate why you are getting frequent yeast infections and may be able to prescribe something to help prevent future ones: that if not treated, it is possible to pass the infection back and forth among yourselves. Research has revealed that the most common sexual cause of yeast infections is oral sex. There’s much more bacteria in a mouth than on a penis. So, refrain from oral sex the next time and see if that helps.

Can someone produce too many baby cells yet be infertile?

My doctor said I have the ability to produce ovaries and many for that matter, but I may not be able to produce for fertility, even if I have sex every day. Can this be true please?

Troubled wife

There are many strange diagnoses nowadays and many strange illnesses that were not before now. The only case I know that may be similar to your own is the case of polycystic ovary syndrome. This is a case of a lady’s ovaries containing many tiny cysts that cause the body to produce many hormones called androgens. Ideally, androgen should naturally turn to estrogen as a lady grows, but when and if it refuses to change, such action can interfere with pregnancy.

In fact, in men, androgens are made in the testes. They’re involved in the development of male sex organs and other male characteristics, like body hair. In women, androgens are made in the ovaries, but are later turned into estrogens. These are hormones that play an important role in the reproductive system, as well as the health of your heart, arteries, skin, hair, brain, and other body parts and systems.

If you have polycystic ovary syndrome and your androgen levels are too high, you have higher odds for several possible complications. Although these may differ from woman to woman, you may have ​trouble getting pregnant. Cysts in the ovaries can interfere with ovulation. That’s when one of your ovaries releases an egg each month. If a healthy egg isn’t available to be fertilised by a sperm, you can’t get pregnant.

You may still be able to get pregnant if you have this case. But you might have to take medicine and work with a fertility specialist to make it happen.

Doctors aren’t sure what causes polycystic ovary syndrome. One theory is that insulin resistance may cause your body to make too many androgens.

Insulin is a hormone that helps the cells in your body absorb sugar (glucose) from your blood to be used as energy later. If you have insulin resistance, the cells in your muscles, organs, and other tissues don’t absorb blood sugar very well. As a result, you can have too much sugar moving through your bloodstream. This is called diabetes, and it can cause problems with your cardiovascular and nervous systems and the reproductive system. I hope this helps a bit.

Do genital piercings enhance sexual performance?

My husband-to-be thinks it’s a cool idea, but could it be?

Mary Naomi

I have received several mails and messages from couples wanting to know if genital piercings actually enhance sexual performance. A particular wife said her husband prefers her to wear her wedding ring on the tip of her clitoris rather than the second index finger on her left hand.

Genital piercing among some particular sets of men and women is seen as a form of body adornment. This set of people argues that it is similar to other, more visible types of body piercings like the ear, nose or lip piercing.

In genital piercing, a needle is used to make a hole into the desired part of the genitals and a piece of jewellery is attached to the body by threading it through the hole.

So far, I have never seen a correlation between good, healthy sex and genital piercing. It’s just a costly dangerous fashion that will go away with time but the side effect might never be quickly forgotten, I would rather advise to play safe. There are thousands healthy ways sex would be enjoyed than piercing body parts.

Am I suffering from masturbation?

I am a boy of 19 years; I masturbate, almost every day, though I have never had vaginal sex. Now I notice that anytime I masturbate, I release little or no sperm at all. I want to know whether I am not suffering from any side effects and if so, what solutions to adopt?

Ayomide fine boy looking good

Ayomide, I just want to give you a handout on masturbation (from world health sex therapists organisation) and why the only solution is for you to just stop it, just like the way you will not put poison into your mouth.

Masturbation can be defined as the stimulation of one’s own sex organs by using the hands, or in between the thighs, or sex toys, or the bed surface (lying on the face) to get sexual gratification. Both men and women are involved in masturbation but more pronounced in men. The negative effect of masturbation has a foundational root. When a young man does not have adequate and healthy sexual information from either parents or guardians, or he is sexually abused at his formative years, there is possibility of such to habitually want to explore sex. And most times the next line of action is to search for knowledge in all the wrong places. They either get fragmented substandard information from ignorant friends or take to pornography. This search for knowledge in wrong places lures (entices, seduces, ensnares) them into either using porn as a yardstick for what a good sex should look like or turning them into a masturbation addict. When people try to masturbate, they usually watch porn movies to get them excited which leads to porn addiction. When a man is addicted to masturbation, you can easily identify the followings with him: –

a … Lack of will power to control his addiction to porn.

b … Distorted mindset of what a real sex should look like, by using pornography sex as a yardstick. Porn usually presents an ideal sex-life scenario, an ideal love play, ideal intercourse, ideal orgasm and ideal people, ideal penis size, ideal breast and so on. Forgetting the fact that pornography is a movie, acted by sex actors, who are randomly selected because they have big sex organs like the penis, breast and the buttocks and perfect body shapes. They are also under some drugs like steroids for maximum performance and filmed with no privacy at all. All their sexual activities are way far from normal. But in a real sex-life, clumsiness, imperfect bodies, farting and so many other life scenarios take place during sex. This distorted enticement affects the mindset of addictive masturbators because they are always in search of what porn stars present, causing them not to have the best of sexual relationship with their spouses.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]