She wants your time, presence more than anything
Elizabeth Badejo

One of the biggest marriage killers today is the ‘absence of time,’ a very significant element of a great marriage which many couples have taken for granted. Time and presence are essential tools which most realistic couples exploit to build a lasting marital relationship.

Perhaps you are guilty of the lack of time and presence in your marriage as it has been extremely challenging for you and your wife financially as well as physically. Nevertheless hard times can only drift away when you understand the implications of your reactions and you’re ready to take action.

CREATE TIME TO INDULGE

A loving and committed wife will always try to crave your attention especially when it’s something you rarely give; she may even start to act like a grown up child seeking her father’s love and attention; which may or may not end in her favour if you are not connecting with the realities.

One of the elements of a great marriage is communication and the more you build it, the stronger your relationship becomes. Perhaps your wife enjoys talking and going on and on about the same old thing; this is a familiar trait in women seeking their husband’s attention or affection.

It is only when you are diligent in your commitment to her that you can affectionately understand the importance of time and presence and also able to build a common interest in many good things together too.

MONEY CAN’T BUY HER LOVE

Marriage was built on the fundamental principles of companionship so that a man and woman can live together and build a relationship that can stand the test of time as time is subject to change. A man who spends most of his time working and acquiring all the best things in life for his wife in the name of providing comfort may also be driving his wife into infidelity if he is not available to show her love and affection. Most extra-marital affairs are triggered when a woman finds a friend old or new who can give her some attention as well as offer his shoulders to cry on too.

YOU NEED TIME TO BUILD MEMORIES

The significance of spending quality time and presence with your wife creates a great opportunity for beautiful memorials which you will both fall back on when you both grow old together. You cannot build memories alone on the careers you built or the wealth you acquired because they can all be taken away from you in no time.

Memories are built on things you do together such as travelling, shopping, cooking, baking and cruising, all these require your time as well as your presence creating good times and reasons to relive your courtship period.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]