Who is more romantic — man or woman?
Ojoi Igajah

Romance is often said to be an aspect of love in a relationship; in fact, some people believe that the more romantic a person is, the more loving they will be and the more lively the relationship will be. Saturday PUNCH asked some Nigerians who they think is usually more romantic in a relationship — men or women? Here are their answers:

Money makes men to be more romantic

James Henshaw

As for me, I think men are more romantic. It might not be easily noticeable, but when you observe closely the behaviour of both parties in a relationship, you would notice that men are actually more romantic. When a man is financially stable and is able to wine and dine, he will be more romantic. Women are more hard-nosed when it comes to relationship, until when they finally decide to settle with a man.

Romance depends on the circumstance

Mercy-Obia Onofiok

No gender can actually claim to be the champion when it comes to the art and act of romance. Both parties can be romantic; it all depends on the circumstances and personalities involved. While a woman may not want to openly express her feelings, a man may be quick to do so. It’s a question of who is more given to expressing affection physically. Also, if someone is hungry and poor, you may not expect much romance from them. They may change when the condition is better.

Men follow women’s lead in romance

Austin Lordlaz

Romance is a product of adventure, experiment, out-of-the-box thinking and hunger for fresh perspective in a relationship. Looking at history and even now, women can be said to be more romantic than men. Men only follow women’s lead. In the Bible, when Eve discovered the forbidden fruit, out of romance, she gave it to her husband, Adam. So, naturally, women are more romantic.

No true romance without money

Evelyn Ekeng

There is no true romance when money is not involved to take care of one’s needs. Since in most cases a man is the source of money and a larger percentage of family responsibilities are on him, he becomes more romantic automatically. It is a simple rule of nature.

Men, being ‘hunters’, are more romantic

Chibuzor Orji

Men are more romantic because they are always trying to impress ladies, so they go the extra mile to show their romantic side, for instance, by organising birthday parties at the beach for their spouses or girlfriends. A man can also go the extra mile to hire an event planner and figure out the most romantic way to propose to a lady. Therefore, men, being ‘hunters,’ are more romantic. On their part, women often feel that they are the centres of attraction and so they do little or nothing to initiate romance.

Men have retired when it comes to romance

Eniola Adelabu

These days, no man is ready to invest in a lady if he is not benefiting in one way or the other from her. Most men I’ve come across are now selfish and this is why women are assuming men’s roles. Now, you will find ladies working so hard to make money so they can spend it on men. Women now take men out; buy them clothes and other valuables. Women even give men money if the latter say they want to start a business. Women do all these so that they don’t lose in the game of love. Romance is now strictly on the part of the women. The men have retired.

Gender does not play a role in romance

JimmyGood Asako

Being romantic entails being able to understand the body and emotional make-up of one’s partner. Every individual is uniquely built when it comes to emotion. What I’m trying to say is that in some cases, men are more romantic and in others, women are more romantic. So, being romantic is a personality thing, not about the gender of the person involved.

Romance is a girl thing

Patience James

Women are more romantic towards their spouses. They may show their romantic nature either consciously or unconsciously. Being romantic is one of the feminine attributes. Women can be romantic anywhere and at anytime. Men, on the other hand, see romance as a kind of weakness. Some men also try to be romantic, though.

Men are more romantic before relationship starts

Nnaemeka Mordi

When a man is trying to woo a woman, he is always the more romantic person. He could buy flowers; send angelic text messages and so on. But believe me, once he proposes and the woman accepts, he has reached the height of his romantic career. He then hangs the boot and the woman picks up from there. The woman now shoulders the responsibility of being romantic for the greater part of the union. Men offer protection and comfort, while women offer romance and care.

Women are more creative, hence more romantic

Modupe Coker

Women are naturally more creative and artistic than men in nature, which is why they always look for new ways to spice up their relationships. A woman could decorate and light up the room with scented candles just to create a romantic atmosphere. How many men can ever think of doing that? Men wish they were romantic, but they are not. They only try to emulate the women, who are far ahead in the game of romance.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]