10 ways to improve bonding with your children
Tunde Ajaja

Ordinarily, promotion at the work place is one thing everyone desires and eagerly looks forward to, but not for Mrs. Janet (surname withheld), a senior executive at a commercial bank in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Little wonder it was a huge surprise to her boss and most of her colleagues when she turned in her resignation few weeks after she received her promotion letter.

As it was later gathered, before the promotion, her work usually ended at 7pm, and sometimes 8pm. But with the promotion, more was expected of her, in terms of added functions, which she told few of her colleagues would further reduce the little time she had for her family, especially her young children, who were usually in care of her home help.

“Some of our colleagues felt her decision was irrational, because the husband earned less than her, from what we hear, but she felt it was best for her children,” a colleague privy to the episode said.

Interestingly, the basis of Janet’s resignation – need to create time for family – is central to the experience of many parents, especially mothers, for obvious reasons. Combining the two is seemingly a struggle for most employed mothers.

Given the huge roles parental guidance and bonding play in shaping the character, experiences and sometimes future of children, it has therefore become necessary to point out how parents can improve on the bonding between them and their children.

On the average, children have just about 900 weeks (more or less) to spend with their parents before they gain some independence, thus, it is important for parents to make good use of the time together.

Experts have pointed out that kids who feel strongly connected to their parents are more likely to cooperate, which make parenting a lot easier, even if they would always act like the kids they are.

However, here are some tips on how to have an improved bonding with children, with relative ease:

Create time for them every day: The nature of some parents’ job makes it almost impossible to spend time with their children each day, except weekends, given that some leave home early in the morning and come back late in the night. But according to experts, this should not be an excuse. Sparing time to be with children makes them feel loved. A professor of sociology, Prof. Olufunlayo Bammeke, said parents need to be deliberate about spending time with their children. She said, “if something is important to you, you find time for it; the way we find time to sleep, eat and do other necessary things. It is whoever is there for children that would invariably influence them. If the child spends more time with the home help or lesson teacher, those are the people that would influence them. So, parents must find time for them.”

Also speaking on the importance of spending time with the children, a clinical psychologist, Dr. Laura Markham, advised that parents should do whatever they could to schedule 15 minutes with each of their children every day. “Just pour your love on them and try any physical activity or game that gets them laughing,” she added.

Make the little time with them count: Given that many parents do not have the pleasure of spending much time with their children, due to work demands, experts say the ‘little’ time with them should be maximised. Bammeke, who lectures at the University of Lagos, said, “It’s not just about physical presence. We are talking about impactful presence, because it’s possible for a parent to be home all day and not spend quality time with the child. It’s the time spent with the child; asking questions and answering them when they ask their questions that counts.”

Pay attention to their education: This goes beyond dropping them in school and bringing them back home. Experts say asking about what they learnt in school and how their day went is a good way to initiate a fruitful conversation with them. Bammeke said, “When a child comes back from school, it’s very important for the parent or a significant other to spend time looking through what the child did in school. Allow the child to recount the experiences of the day. In sharing your child’s experience for the day, they would mention incidents that they might not have considered important, which might immediately interest the parent. Asking them who their friends are, the teacher they like most, the one they don’t like and why among such things would make your children to talk to you.”

Be mindful of your language: This factor does not seek to strip the parents of the liberty to chastise their children. Rather, it emphasises the need for parents to mind their language when sourcing for information from their children. Bammeke said the way some parents go about finding out about their children activities and experiences appears interrogative, which she said would make them to be on the defensive. She added, “But, when you create a relaxed atmosphere, it boosts their confidence and they would feel free to confide in you as a parent. So, let them see you as their friends.”

Picnic is good, but..: Another good way to bond is for parents and their children to go on a picnic. “It’s an opportunity to be together; find out about their lives, find out about the things they have done and share certain things with them, she added. However, she said parents have to be deliberate about having a conversation with them if that is the purpose, given the distractions at such fun places. “If you go to a picnic and the children are jumping around, you still won’t have that time to talk. That’s why I said it’s not the same, unless you create time there to talk together,” she said. “If it’s going to give them an opportunity to relax and then speak freely.”

Prioritise physical touch: According to Markham, parents need to explore the hidden benefits of hugs, which she said boosts closeness. She said, “Snuggle your child first thing in the morning for a few minutes, and last thing at night. Hug when you say goodbye, when you’re re-united, and often in between. Tousle hair, pat backs, rub shoulders. Make eye contact and smile, which is a different kind of touch.” She said if they rebuff such advances, it could signal something had gone wrong. “Get them relaxed, and chat as you give them a foot rub. It’s a foolproof way to hear what happened in their life that day.”

Take time to play with them: No doubt, happiness stimulates the secretion of endorphins and oxytocin hormones, thus, parents who have pleasurable moments with their children tend to stay connected. Markham said, “Making laughter a daily habit also gives your child a chance to laugh out the anxieties and upsets that otherwise make them feel disconnected, and play helps kids want to cooperate. Which is likely to work better?: Come eat your breakfast now!” or “Little Gorilla, it’s time for breakfast.”

Be a good listener: Children like to talk and they want to be listened to. Their happiness could be dampened when they have bottled emotions and no one is ready to listen. Thus, parents do them a lot of help when they listen. Markham said, “Connection starts with listening. Bite your tongue if you need to, except to say, “Wow!….I see….Really?…How was that for you?…Tell me more. The habit of seeing things from your child’s perspective will help you see the reasons for behaviours that would otherwise drive you crazy. And it will help you regulate your own emotions.”

Have bedtime conversation: This is usually brief, so it doesn’t eat into the time they should be sleeping, but it can have maximum impact. Markham noted that children tend to open up late at night than any other time of the day. Thus, she has this to say, “Spend some time visiting and snuggling with them in the dark. Those companionable, safe moments of connection invite whatever your child is currently grappling with to the surface, whether it’s something that happened at school, the way you snapped at her this morning, or her worries about tomorrow’s field trip.” She said all the parent needed to do at that time was to listen and assure them that their concern would be addressed the following day. “The next day, be sure to follow up. You’ll be amazed how your relationship with your child deepens. And don’t give this habit up as your child gets older,” she added.

Stay connected: Parents are equally advised not to allow distance to come in between them and their children. Even when at work, a phone call every day when they are back from school, to interact with and play with them could go a long way to reassure them that they are loved. Occasionally, promising to tell them something, get them gifts or snacks or anything of interest to them on return would also help.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]