59 ways never to miss erection again (1)
Funmi Akingbade

[email protected]

08034540594

08156047309

08029593116

Hello, my readers out there. Today, we shall be looking at ways our husbands will keep all their erections and never lose one again. Few months ago, a wife sent this question, ‘I have a husband who desperately desires sex more but keeps losing his erection over and again. He has a hard time climaxing and sometimes, he keeps losing his erection or both simultaneously, mostly when he is tired. But I am almost always ready before he is. Sometimes, I can have orgasm twice before a section of sex is over, but when it takes my husband forever to climax or even ejaculate, I get so frustrated. I can’t take it anymore. With him, it’s not an issue of being aroused; he describes it like he doesn’t have enough control to be able to make it happen. Any suggestion? I am dying to have more as a wife.’

I am sure that many women are daily confronted with this type of problem. Sure, we hear how husbands are eager and can barely hold back their climax, but that isn’t always the way things play out in the marital bedroom. Sometimes, no matter how much he wants to get there, it’s a challenge.

Let’s start understanding why this might happen to any husband and then we’ll go into what to do about it. Why are men having a difficult time reaching climax?

One is age. As men age, the nerve endings in their penis become less sensitive. So, what used to make them fire off a round easily may not quite get them there anymore.

Two, drugs. Medications can interfere with ejaculation, specifically, most anti-depressants, anti-hypertensives (high blood pressure medicines), anti-psychotic drugs, and some diuretics. In addition, excessive alcohol, marijuana use, or opiates can have a dulling effect on the ability to climax.

Three, disease or injury. Husbands with diabetes, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury and injury to the pelvic region can experience difficulty with orgasm. For all of these, the nerves in the genital area have been negatively affected, so arousal to climax is more difficult.

Four, masturbation. Masturbation for any reason and of any kind is often not advisable. If you masturbate often, you train yourself to react to that more efficient form of arousal, rather than the slower- and vastly more relationship-building -interaction with your honey. Husbands may then have difficulty achieving orgasm with intercourse rather than self-stimulation.

Five, a quick note about pornography: If your husband is viewing pornography as well, that adds yet another barrier to achieving orgasm through regular sexual contact. Porn is a shortcut to arousal and those addicted to porn may become physiologically unable to take the long way home.

Six, performance anxiety. If a man has difficulty achieving climax, the next time he may worry about climaxing, which makes it hard to achieve. He will now worry more about achieving climax, thus making it harder. Stress and anxiety hinder our ability to perform in all areas — from public speaking to getting your daily runs up to date.

Seven, pregnancy fear. If the wife wants to conceive and the husband isn’t ready or willing to become a papa, he may subconsciously withhold his “seed.” If for some reason, a wife is in that spot, she needs to address it. You simply shouldn’t bring a child into this world without getting ready or willing to be parents.

Eight, relationship issues. For both husband and wife, openness is involved in sexually engaging and climaxing. The husband may not even be consciously aware that he’s doing it, but if he feels resentment or frustration with his wife, it can carry over into his ability to ejaculate inside her.

Nine, by the way, fatigue is another thing spouses overlook, but sometimes, they are just too tired to do anything meaningful. So, I think being tired can be a contributing factor, especially as a man ages and it takes longer effort to reach climax.

Ten, when couples lack full information about premature ejaculation. Premature ejaculation refers to the inability of a man to delay ejaculation during a sexual act until their spouse has reached orgasm and are duly satisfied. By the way, it happens when a man releases or discharges after he has reached orgasm during a sexual encounter.

READ ALSO: Governor circulates nude photos of lover for revenge

Eleven, many men are obviously unsure about how long a ‘normal’ sex should last before ejaculation. A study looking at 500 couples from many countries found the average time between when a man is putting his penis into his partner’s vagina and climaxing is eight-and-a-half minutes. Though there are no definitions of how long a sexual intercourse should last; nevertheless, ejaculating too quickly will not be a satisfying experience to the spouse.

The condition is so bad in some men that it happens every time they engage in lovemaking with their spouse such that their partner never reaches a climax. In some men, it’s even worse; they discharge even during foreplay, before they have had the time to penetrate the woman’s vagina. This has destroyed many marriages and put a big question mark on many sexual relationships.

Twelve, normally, depending on some circumstances and how they are handled, a man should be able to thrust in and out during the sexual act for ten or sometimes fifteen minutes.

Thirteen, most men who suffer premature ejaculation come in the very first minute, leaving their partner unsatisfied and unfulfilled. This kind of condition should be a source of concern to a man because if this continues, it can throw the woman into sexual frigidity.

Fourteen, premature ejaculation could either be lifelong or acquired.

Fifteen, in a case of lifelong premature ejaculation, the husband has been experiencing premature ejaculation since he started having intercourse. It means it has been present from the day he began sexual activity.

Sixteen, with acquired premature ejaculation, the husband in question previously had successful sexual intercourse and only now has developed premature ejaculation.

Seventeen, this suggests that it has not always been the case; it only resulted after a period of relative normal sexual functioning. Characteristics of husbands with lifelong premature ejaculation could include the following; psychological difficulties, deep anxiety about sex that relates to one or more traumatic experiences encountered during development.

Eighteen, cases of acquired premature ejaculation can include the following: erectile dysfunction, performance anxiety, psychotropic drug use, etc.

Nineteen, the challenge of early ejaculation has been divided into three parts.

Twenty , mild – occurring within approximately 30 seconds to one minute of vaginal penetration.

Twenty-one, moderate – occurring within approximately 15-30 seconds of vaginal penetration.

Twenty-two … Severe – occurring before sexual activity, at the start of sexual activity, or within approximately 15 seconds of vaginal penetration.

Twenty-three, premature ejaculation is believed to be a psychological problem and does not represent any known organic disease involving the male reproductive tract or any known lesions in the brain or nervous system.

Twenty-four, premature ejaculation is the most common sexual disorder in men younger than 40 years. It has historically been considered a psychological disease with no identified organic cause.

Twenty-five, the cause of premature ejaculation varies from one person to another.

Twenty-six, for a large majority of persons, it is lack of skills, being untrained in how to delay ejaculation.

Twenty-seven, some persons are more physically sensitive than others. Just like when you tickle a fellow, some persons jump up that you almost wonder if they are only reacting to the tickle or something else. And then you tickle some other persons, they hardly move. We vary in the way we respond to external stimuli.

Twenty-eight, people who are very sensitive or extra sensitive to external stimulation will like suffer premature ejaculation, while people who are quite ‘numb’ will suffer it less. I will explain further as we go on.

Twenty-nine, the problem of a percentage of people who suffer premature ejaculation is psychological. They only need a bit of a paradigm shift to do well in these circumstances.

Thirty, when a husband does not know that his first purpose in the sexual act is to satisfy his wife, he will only mind satisfying himself. Such a man can be a victim of premature ejaculation because his mind is so occupied with his own satisfaction.

Thirty-one, every husband should understand that they have a duty during sex to satisfy their spouse.

Thirty-two, making love with your spouse and abandoning her halfway is irresponsible. So, a man should fix his mind on satisfying his spouse first before being satisfied – escorting his wife to orgasm first before getting climaxed.

Thirty-three, this mental shift will make the next few tips easy for every man to imbibe. Once again, it is out of place to climax in sex while your spouse has not reached orgasm.

READ ALSO: Two brides, one groom Knocks, kudos for ‘brave’ men marrying two women on same day

QUESTIONS!!! ANSWERS!!!

I don’t enjoy intercourse with my wife

I am in my mid-forties with a loving wife who is five years younger. We have four kids between the ages of nine and 17, and all of them are in secondary school.

Of recent, our sexual intimacy has declined in proportion to the year of our marriage. We only get intimate once in 18 days or twice a month. On my part, the libido is so low. On her part too, she’s become frigid of late. And we sleep on the same marital bed regularly. Over the years, the low libido problem comes once in a while and often returns powerfully for many months thereafter, before receding.

As stated in the response by one of the women respondents on the topic last week, I thought the problem was medical and became worried. Against my wish, I have had to succumb to pressure from one or two girlfriends and had sexual escapades now and then, and it’s always been an exhilarating performance outside. I could not believe that I can perform three to four long rounds of sex outside when I find it difficult to finish one round with my wife. I just do not understand why – without much prompting outside – my blood flows high while it’s cold at home nowadays. My wife is beautiful, adorable and morally upright. She is a good mother to our children. She can be very loving and sexy too. It was not like this in our early years of marriage. I feel guilty having to test myself outside once in a while, but she is not helping matters by not bothering about demanding for sexual attention.

I hope a solution can be found to this our problem, and I believe it is not peculiar to us.

Thank you.

Kehinde Apala

Mr. Kehinde, you were able to go for three to four rounds of sex because of the excitement and anticipation of seeing someone else who is new. But couples should realise that they can create such excitement in their relationships and also have the best of fun sexually without defiling their matrimonial bed. For instance, you can buy sexy materials that give you a feel of some new look for your wife. You can go on holidays to new places to create enthusiasm and originality. You can even make use of some new positions or do something strange and extraordinary from the normal things you do sexually together. Both of you can even go on sex fast for some time and come back together again. You can watch romantic movies together. All these help hype the excitement. But the moment you start moving from one bed to the other, you end up destroying your relationship.

Does excessive sugar intake affect sexual performance?

I easily ejaculate whenever I make love to my wife. I barely last more than one minute and I end up struggling to satisfy my wife. Many of my friends say it’s sugar-related. I don’t know how true it is. If what they say is true, what should I do? Thank you in anticipation of your help.

The Don, Kaduna

Your friends may be right. But there are also some other causes of premature ejaculation. But if you consume too much of sugary substance, your entire immune system is likely to be affected. Some experts say that a bottle of fizzled drinks brings down your immunity by 30%, and if you take more than one bottle per day, you can imagine the damage you are doing to your body. So, stay off too much of sugar consumption for the sake of your health.

How do I manage this please?

Dear Funmi, my wife has been frigid since thy kingdom come. I have cheated on her even though to my disliking, yet she has not changed. I even threatened her, yet she is unrepentant. I am fed up.

Okon Matthew

Mr. Okon, I have always been of the opinion that there is no woman out there that is frigid. The problem of frigidity arises when the husband does not subscribe to the availability of the access code. For many valuable sites to be opened, there must be an access code requirement. Many husbands neither ask for it nor apply it properly. First and foremost, you as the husband must remove any of the psychological causes that are present or help your wife to remove such. Then you should up your game being romantic and dishing out tender loving care to the woman. There are many married women who have morbid fear of sex because of psycho- therapy and past abuses; take her for counselling. You can also help her to correct any wrong belief that she may have about the fact that sex is dirty and unholy. Do you know if she is infected? If a woman is suffering from pain during coitus, infections should be treated if present and then you both can also use lubricants like K Y jelly, pre- seed etc. The couple should seek surgery if there is a septate vagina. Help and encourage her to exercise. Taking to regular, adequate exercises helps increase libido like never before.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]