An emotionally mature husband is a blessing
Elizabeth Badejo

[email protected]

www.stringmynaijawedding.com …08097360766

Marriage is a relationship that requires sacrifice and emotional maturity above all understanding. It takes a true man who is able to exercise his thoughts, feelings and emotions as well as competent enough to value his intellectual abilities to become emotionally mature in his marriage. A man who is emotionally mature will be able to set reasonable boundaries for himself and also respects those boundaries set by his wife too.

An emotionally mature husband is indeed an asset and blessing to his marriage. The question is, are you emotionally mature in your marriage?

A SELFLESS HUSBAND

Most challenges in the marriage can sometimes be an accumulation of many unsolved issues as a result of irrational behavior of the man having personal interests and unrealistic expectations of his wife in the marriage.

Today, many women walk on egg shells in their marriages, enduring years of abuses, anguish and exploitation by their husbands who are emotional immature and have no respect or value their wives’ feelings or emotions.

An emotionally mature husband is a selfless one who will take counsel from his wife and also allow her to influence his decisions as he is certain will always be in their best interest.

A LOGICAL FATHER

It takes a lot of wisdom, patience and understanding to succeed as a father today because parenting is not for men who cannot hold their own heads up. Gone are the days when fathers mostly stood for command and fear; nurturing children today takes more than sheer discipline alone.

A winning father today is one who has emotional maturity and not afraid of his own feelings but also able to train his children to value their own emotions too. He is a logical father who is totally committed to understanding his children’s individual capabilities, challenges and how to meet their holistic needs.

MATURITY IS GIVING

Marriage is about giving and sharing and love is not needy. The one who truly loves you will value the qualities of your heart and soul and would also desire to make you happy always. An emotionally mature husband will always watch out for your best interest as he is not in the business of contending with you but complementing you instead.

MATURITY IS RESPONSIBILTY

Maturity is the acceptance of responsibility which is the outcome of living in a world of consequences. A man who has emotional maturity is able to take responsibility for his actions and also try his utmost best to avoid making bad decisions too. One who lacks emotional maturity will find it difficult to learn, grow as well as take responsibility of his failures too. Emotional immaturity can lead a man towards anxiety and pessimism which can affect his own well being and that of his family and marriage as a whole.

NOTES

Emotional maturity is not a factor of age but the ability to make changes, take responsibility and make good choices towards your own happiness and that of your wife and family.

The truth is that you will only get as much as you put into your marriage; the quality of a man’s life depends on his ability to influence his wife positively by creating an enabling home where love and peace thrive.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]