19 health tips to manage libido swing
Funmi Akingbade

[email protected]

08034540594

08156047309

08029593116

It is no longer a new thing when you find married couples struggling with libido incompatibility. Many bewildered and frustrated couples come to my office or call me on the phone over the same issue of libido differences. It is either one spouse is hyperactive sexually and the other one is just not getting there, or the other way round and this is the same story over and again.

However, the established truth and fact is that libido is not just the same in many cases. Since there are no two individuals alike, there are no married partners alike when it comes to libido. So, in this article we shall be looking at 20 ways couples can reach a compromising level that will enhance their sexual satisfaction even when their libidos are far apart.

One, couples who have low sexual desire and are not making any effort to enhance it must realise that un-satisfying sexual relationship often creates not only distance but infidelity and divorce. It is, therefore, wise to know that doing something about it will be of help to the union.

Two, a simple solution is making up your mind to just do it; that is, just have sex, period!

Three, in some cases, sexual desire does not necessarily precede arousal; it actually follows it.

Four, some people rarely fantasise about sex; but when they become sexually involved with their partners anyway, they become aroused. And once aroused, there is a desire to continue.

Five, just because one partner is not eager for sex does not mean he or she has a problem with arousal. A lot of people with low sexual desire actually enjoy sex once they get started.

Six, hormones do not have to be raging; you do not need an overwhelming feeling of passion before sex happens.

Seven, many times, people with lower libido have sexual urges.

Eight, sometimes some people with low sex drive are more interested in making love under certain conditions at certain times of the day, on weekends, after a bath, or a good talk, a vacation, or when the kids are asleep, or when they are about to start their menstrual flow, or when they eat certain food items, or when they are taking some medication or drinks.

Nine, identify the particular times you feel more inclined and take advantage of those moments. Do what turns you on. Determine to be amorous with your spouse.

Ten, the high-desire partner wants sex more than the other companion and feels probably frustrated and powerless. More than anything else, there is a feeling of rejection, hurt and loneliness.

Eleven, it is not always true that your spouse’s lack of affection is borne out of lack of love or vindictiveness.

Twelve, sometimes it might be due to low testosterone or estrogen as the case may be or an irritant childhood condition that has absolutely nothing to do with you. Your spouse may not be happy either.

Thirteen, sometimes your spouse’s lack of desire may stem from marital stress or discord.

Fourteen, a more loving marriage may be the only therapy your relationship needs.

Fifteen, moreover, testosterone levels also rise and fall at different times and this determines when your spouse is more receptive or not. In many men, testosterone surges in the early morning around 7am or 8am.

Sixteen … If you are a woman whose husband is not as interested as you desire, even if you are not quite in the mood, then you may give yourself an extra push to provide much needed pleasure at the right time.

Seventeen, if you are a man, you should know you wife’s hormonal spike too.

Eighteen, you may ask her if there are certain times when she feels slightly sexier than other times; whether later in the evening, in the middle of her menstrual cycle, or close to the end of the month.

Nineteen, ask if there is anything you can do that will turn him or her on more easily. Initiate more of intimacy and help your spouse feel ready; most especially pray about it. Something has to happen on earth before heaven moves and God is as equally interested as you are on every issue that gives you concern.

QUESTIONS!!! ANSWER!!!

My breasts itch so badly

Dear Funmi, I have a big problem; my breasts itch so badly that after scratching it, many ugly and unsexy marks are left on them. I have used all sorts of things but to no avail. The most painful of it is that my husband has stopped having sex with me because of this. He insisted that I may get him infected, because the only way I get aroused is when he has to suck my breasts. Please, is there a way out?

Mary Mary

Lots of things can make your nipples itchy. They’re generally sensitive. As they also stick out, they can get irritated from friction, eczema, breastfeeding, or pregnancy. Itchy nipples rarely can be a sign of a more serious condition. Even if your urge to scratch is great, the problem is usually easy to treat. If you’ve been using over-the-counter products for a couple of weeks and the itching is not gone, check with your doctor.

Can sex reduce prostrate challenges?

Dear Funmi, I am 48 years; I lost my first wife four years ago, but I have remarried for two years now to a 25-year-old lady. She is a very good and wonderful wife. We enjoy sex together and she is very good in bed. But a big problem started few months ago when I went for my general health checkup and I requested to have my P S A (prostate specific antigen) done as you have always advocated. Unfortunately, the test indicated that I am in the early stage of prostate cancer which is treatable. Already, I have started treatment, but I stay off sex and I intend staying off sex for the period of the treatment. However, my wife is not seeing things my way; she still wants sex by all means. I am beginning to think if I do not do something, she may start having sex elsewhere. I can’t afford to lose her and my question is, can sex reduce prostate cancer risk?

Captain Okon Obina

Captain, I do understand your plight and I hope the information below will help. Frequent ejaculations, especially in 20 something-year-old men, may reduce the risk of prostate cancer later in life, Australian researchers reported in the British Journal of Urology International. When they followed men diagnosed with prostate cancer and those without, they found no association of prostate cancer with the number of sexual partners as the men reached their 30s, 40s and 50s. But they found men who had five or more ejaculations weekly while in their 20s reduced their risk of getting prostate cancer later by a third. Another study, reported in the Journal of the American Association, found that frequent ejaculations, 21 or more a month, were linked to lower prostate cancer risk in older men, as well, compared with less frequent ejaculations of four to seven monthly. But now that you are already diagnosed with early stage of prostate cancer and also under treatment, you will definitely need to drastically, extremely and radically slow down on the frequencies of sex because, above all other things, you need your body to help get you healed on time and heal well. Honestly, I would advise you talk her into understanding your plight and bear with you for a while, but you can still have sex but not too frequently.

I am plagued, how do I get out?

Funmi, I am seriously plagued with anxiety of performance and the most challenging thing affecting my ego, libido and performance is that my wife is more experienced. This has been on since I got married for over a year now, although my wife has a terrible sexual past and I am aware of all of her affairs. Before the marriage, I felt intimidated because I was a virgin. My problem now is that each time we have sex, I feel as if my wife is comparing me with her past lovers. She never says this, but this feeling is so strong. Yet, my wife has been a good wife. How can I overcome this feeling?

Uncle Sam

Dear Sam,

First, I don’t want you to allow your wife’s yesterday to eat up your today. This is worth keeping in mind as we work on this pressing issue. I think your problem says more about you than your wife. You are insecure. I am sure that the thought that is nagging you is, “Am I satisfying her like any of her past lovers?” These are valid questions, but you need to discuss them with her. Take the time to seek her sincere opinion. You are new in the game, but you can learn and if need be, become better than any of her past lovers. Do not be afraid of what you may find out. While there is no guaranteeing what her answer will be, it will help, especially if your relationship is in good shape. Start by telling her that you understand her past sexual involvements but that things are different now. Let her know you are bringing it up because you feel safe with her and want your marriage to be the best it should be. Do not condemn or criticise her, you knew her past before marrying her. If you do not deal with this mindset in time, it could affect your psyche and eventually your marriage. In addition, whatever you discover, let sleeping dogs lie. Nobody moves forward by constantly looking backward. What you need to spend your time on is how to improve your act and be a better lover.

Am I a sex addict?

Dear Funmi,

After having a hot and passionate sex life for the first four years of marriage, my husband and I finally talked things out. Now, we have wonderful, incredible sex. My problem is that I am somehow addicted. It doesn‘t seem right for me to be so consumed with sexual thoughts and desire, or to want sex as much as I do, which is constantly. I feel out of control, and that can‘t be godly behaviour – even if my urge is directed toward my husband. How can I control this?

Ibisanmi Timothy

Hello Ibisanmi, it’s fairly unusual for a woman to find herself consumed by sexual thoughts and desires, but it‘s not pathologically or even unnecessarily “ungodly.” Sexual drive and pleasure are part of God‘s creative design. The problem comes when a person‘s sexual feelings and fantasies go outside the marital boundary. It‘s important for you and your husband to keep on talking in order to protect your faithfulness in marriage.

It‘s also problematic when sexual thought or behaviour begins to interfere with other responsibilities. For instance, if you withdraw from other relationships, become negligent in caring for your children or abandon your own spiritual life, some control would become necessary. The good news is that compulsive behaviour can be controlled.

First, try a spiritual approach. For instance, when sexual thoughts enter your mind, you can substitute prayerfully devotional reading to change the obsessive thought patterns. Alternatively, you can try focusing your mind on a noble and worthy event. You‘ll discover that the frequency of your sexual thoughts decreases.

A second approach is to do some physically challenging jobs, which can reduce sexual drive.

You may need professional counselling to explore the reasons for your intense ‘turn on’ and establish better control. Be careful in choosing a counsellor. Find a highly experienced and trustworthy therapist.

Is it true that turmeric is an aphrodisiac herb that can fight the inflammation of the prostrate?

Indifebad Monday

Actually, it has been researched that because no two people are alike [even identical twins], different people react to different things in very different ways. I have heard people say turmeric is a very good sex stimulant for them while so many couples react differently. So far, the best I know of turmeric is that it helps to alleviate premenstrual syndrome pain. A recent study on a woman with three menstrual cycles found that curcumin supplements helped ease PMS symptoms by bringing relief. It can help ward off heart attacks in people who have had bypass surgery. It is a very good delicacy spice used by the southeast Asia and Middle East during cooking. It’s also been used as medicine in places like India for centuries to treat issues such as breathing problems. Lately, turmeric has been advertised as a super food that can fight cancer, ease depression and more. Maybe this is the reason why many say it can help fight inflammation of the prostrate. But like I said, there is no harm in trying this out; if it works for you like many claim, I think you should go for it. I also know that because curcumin can help fight inflammation and keep blood sugar levels steady, it could be a useful tool to prevent or treat type 2 diabetes. But it has to be consumed moderately for over nine months. Scientists are excited about curcumin’s potential to ease depression and help antidepressants work better. It also fights lots of viral infection like any chest issues or cold and even tuberculosis. People suffering from arthritis have testified that it has ability to ease joint pains, stiffness and inflammation. If you decide to try it for your joint pain, help your body absorb natural curcumin by eating your turmeric along with black pepper. It also has cancer fighting properties.

What is the danger of swallowing sperms?

I am a 46-year-old lawyer. I honestly enjoy your column because it’s pure, blunt, factual and sometimes thought provoking, needless to add that sometimes, it could be erotic for me and my wife. A female colleague of mine would like to know the implication of ingesting sperms during oral sex.

Saturday Epempola

Spermatozoa are not meant to be swallowed. If one enters into the mouth during oral sex, just spit it out.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]