Saying ‘yes’ can also be complex in marriage
Elizabeth Badejo

[email protected]

www.stringmynaijawedding.com …08097360766

Every loving and caring mother certainly wants her children to have a blissful marriage irrespective of their own fortunes or misfortunes in marriage. On the other hand, the average mother’s advice to her newly wedded daughter or daughter in law on her wedding day would be nothing short of obedience and submission for the sake of love and peace in her marriage.

In a nutshell, saying ‘Yes’ frequently and exhibiting an act of submission to a spouse can be the secret to a happy and fruitful married life. Nevertheless, saying ‘Yes’ can also turn into a red flag to discontentment in your marriage today.

‘Yes’ is primitive

Back in the days, many women married at a young age and didn’t have as much rights as their spouses in terms of education and social status which made them feel inferior to their spouses as they had to depend on them to meet all their needs while they stayed at home to nurture their children. Saying ‘Yes’ to everything must have been the norm back in the days.

Today, more women have taken up various roles alongside men in the workplace and also juggling the responsibility as mothers at home. The role of a woman in the home today has continued to evolve, therefore she wants to have the freedom and capacity to make her own decisions as a woman, wife and mother.

‘Yes’ is inferior

In marriage, inferiority sets in when you feel that you cannot measure up to your spouse because of your low self esteem or you believe he’s better than you because of his social status. Saying ‘Yes’ to your spouse always can be a sign of inferiority complex which can develop from emotional disruption of your mind and a deep rooted doubt in yourself and your ability.

Emotional crisis that is evident in many marriages today can sometimes be associated with cross class dynamics. Perhaps you come from a lower social class and you have developed a sense of inferiority within yourself.

‘Yes’ means silence

The modern couple’s marriage is plagued with many challenges today and the goal of many individuals in marriage is usually to seek self-fulfillment first and foremost and shared fulfillments after; so saying ‘Yes’ can often mean silence in extreme situations.

Silence has become one of the biggest marriage destroyers today and saying ‘Yes’ to a spouse can also mean keeping silent for the supposed sake of peace when you have absolutely nothing to say again. Silence in marriage can be critical because a healthy relationship should be open and honest, not plagued by superiority and contempt when you only hear your own voice alone and every other conversation contrary leads to conflict.

NOTE

Saying ‘Yes’ does not have to be complex; nonetheless understanding your rights and the importance of making choices as well as respecting each other’s values through those choices will go a long way to fulfilling a happy and wonderful marriage lives together.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]