What’d you do if you came across your fiancé/fiancée’s wedding pictures on social media?
Ojoi Igajah

Courtship plays a very significant role in the lives of adults hoping to settle down in marriage. With the advent of technology, there have been cases of lovers who only discover that they’ve been jilted by their partners via the social media. Today, Saturday PUNCH went round to ask some Nigerians how they would react if they saw the wedding pictures of their fiancés/fiancées on the social media

I’d kill my emotions for him and move on – Arrey Takang

It would be very heartbreaking to experience it and I would be extremely furious. For pity’s sake, we were close to getting married, so what would he tell me? I would confront him and we would have a very long talk. I’m sure he’d have a thousand and one baseless reasons for doing such, like “I tried to let you know”, “I was confused” and all other excuses some men give when they mess up. I’d kill my emotions for him instantly and move on.

I’d be traumatized – Azeezat Balogun

I would be totally traumatised if that should happen, especially if I was hoping for marriage from the relationship. The bitter truth is that I can’t fight him even though the deed has been done. The best that I can do is to change my environment for a while, get my act together and move on. It’s a wound which would get healed with time.

It’s going to hurt – Mary Adelua

It’s going to hurt, that’s for sure. The best thing I could do is confront him and ask why he was wasting my time all along; afterwards, I would pick up the pieces and move on. You can’t fight for what’s not meant to be and I can’t be fighting to be in someone’s life. As a lady, you shouldn’t put in too much energy and sacrifice or else you’d just end up heartbroken.

I’d get him arrested – Jemima Michael

I’d try as much as possible to let him go and move on. Our greatest problem as humans is that we keep fighting for the wrong reasons. Such a man is shady and very dangerous. If I really felt the need to take an action, I’d get him arrested and sue him for the physical and emotional trauma that he put me through.

I’d feel wounded – Nkechiyere Eze

That kind of discovery can lead to a lot of bad things. That kind of incident is dangerous to one’s health and could even lead to one committing suicide. Personally, I don’t like drama, so I won’t do anything bad to him; rather, I’d cry. Then, I would take the matter to God in prayers while waiting for karma to pay him back. There are always good men for good women.

I’d be happy I lost a bad woman – Idris Kazeem

I believe that before this kind of thing could happen, the woman must have thought it over and over again and she must have finally made up her mind to settle with the other man. It also means she had been cheating on me all along. That is not a good woman and I’d be happy I lost a bad woman. That kind of woman can poison a man or even become diabolical to get whatever she wants. I wouldn’t let it get to me; rather I’d count myself lucky enough not to have ended up with such a person.

I’d be happy God saved me from potential bad marriage – Mark Lucky

Any man that would go ahead to disturb such a woman and demand for explanations is a very big fool. If a woman keeps such a secret from you, then imagine marrying her eventually. Such a marriage is doomed from the start and I pity the children that will be born into such homes. If that should happen to me, I’d really be happy that God saved me from the bottomless pit. Marriage is a lifetime issue and I can’t be in it with a malicious woman for the rest of my life.

Life goes on – Terry Lawrence

There are millions of women in the world, so if someone should do that to me, there is no problem at all. I’d just let it go because life goes on. I’d only regret all the money and resources I might have invested in her. Women are everywhere, looking for men to marry them, so surely I’d get another woman who may even be better than the one who jilted me.

She’d be in my blacklist for life – Ayerite Sylvanus

Of course, I’d be gravely shocked. Not mentioning to me that she had someone else goes a long way to show that I cannot trust her and you know, there cannot be any lasting marriage without trust. No matter the reason or explanation she gave after I have found out the truth, I would never take her back. I’d also advise anyone I know to stay away from her.

I’d like, share her pictures, then congratulate her – Ofuka Ben

If I should see such pictures on social media, I would like them, share them and tag her on social media. Then I would send her a congratulatory message. I would even pray for her and wish her a blissful marriage and let her conscience trouble her. When I’m done, I’d go back to my drawing board and chase success at all cost so that in future, she’d look back and realise she lost a good man.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]