Dressing for Valentine’s Day date
Tofarati Ige

Choosing the right attire to wear on a Valentine’s Day date could ordinarily be cumbersome but the tips below will help you decide

Solid basics

Don’t neglect the basics like slim dark denim and a navy blazer just because it’s a special occasion. Dress them up while still keeping it rugged with a chambray shirt, hearty tie and contrasting scarf. They work perfectly by themselves with a pair of jeans and boots or can be dressed up with an unstructured blazer and chinos. It is recommended that you buy some basic tees that can be used as under shirts in order to preserve your dress shirts, and others to be worn without. Perfect for a first, second or third date.

Understated elegance

If your Valentine’s Day plans include dinner at a nice restaurant, swap the shirt and tie in favour of a turtleneck. Every dude’s going to be wearing a shirt and tie; so, why not stand out in a sophisticated and elegant way? When you are out for a meal in the evening, you have to dress appropriately, but appropriately doesn’t always mean bringing out your best suit. If for that matter, a stand-up collar shirt is too unimpressive for the anticipated night, switch to the alternative. A granddad collar shirt is a perfect substitution, which elevates style and looking sharp. Complete the look with a mac jacket and the heritage favourite of a G. H Bass loafer for a classic touch and you are good to go.

Low-key early evening

Don’t forget about white denim. For a Valentine’s Day brunch date that may or may not transit to late-afternoon/early-evening drinks, it’s a perfect, more polished option than regular blue jeans.

High/low comfort

Have a date with a long-time flame? Try going high/low. Tone down a dressed up look – classic trousers, button-down and double monks – with a casual and versatile menswear staple like an athletic sweatshirt. For this, you want a look which is relaxed, yet effortlessly stylish. Wide-leg chinos are always guaranteed to keep you comfortable yet looking clean-cut. Pair the chinos with a shirt, a pair of converses and a bomber jacket for a full minimalistic look.

Casually tailored

When in doubt, combine some of your favourite casual basics with tailored pieces in your closet. A waistcoat does an amazing job of taking an okay outfit to a different level. A rule to this look is to make sure your jacket is the most tailored piece of your outfit. As you will probably be wearing it 80 per cent of the day, make sure it’s the statement piece to keep your look completely defined.

After work

Okay, we get it; you have to go to work to earn your keep. Even if you don’t, a smart office look can easily double as a well-put-together Valentine’s Day date night outfit.

Night on the town

If your night is going to be a late one at a swanky lounge, go for something darker and edgier. Also, going for a tweed blazer wouldn’t be a bad idea. It is easy to spruce up with a pair of chinos, or comfort down with a pair of jeans. Either way, a tweed blazer will always have you covered. You could also consider an oxford shirt. The iconic shirt is a timeless piece in any wardrobe. It is easy to wear with almost anything you pull out of your suitcase, and it is guaranteed to eliminate the stress of making long decisions on what to wear.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]