Planning a low-priced date
Tofarati Ige

These tips will help you give your partner a Valentine’s Day treat without breaking the bank

Skip dinner

According to www.thedailymeal.com, there’s nothing that adds up faster than dinner. With the option of appetisers and dessert to boot, your budget is toast. So, skip the meal altogether. Skip the dinner and grab some drinks instead; there are tons of Happy Hours available at great restaurants. You can still impress your date with a nice ambience and save money while you are doing it.

Check out what’s free

You don’t have to end up somewhere cheesy or low-budget, but it’s worth seeing what interesting and free things are happening in your city that week. All dates don’t need to involve bars and restaurants. There are tons of great free events like concerts in the parks or even festivals that make great fun experiences with little pressure on your wallet. Listening to free blues and munching on take-away sandwiches sound like a lovely way to get to know someone.

Make an actual budget

You know how you say you will only spend a certain amount while on a date but end up buying four drinks and a dessert? Avoid that by giving yourself a budget, and then cutting yourself off once you hit it. There’s no need to be lavish in order to impress your date. Don’t forget that going all-out financially on the first date heightens your date’s expectations for future get-togethers, making it hard to spend less on other dates. Once you have hit your spending ceiling, pack up and go home.

Try a picnic

This doesn’t have to be a full-blown romantic setup but something low-key at your favorite park could be fun. Get creative! Go to your local grocery store and grab your favourite snacks to make a picnic. This definitely can be a romantic way to connect and can set you apart from the rest. Even grabbing a box of doughnuts from your favourite bakery can help turn it into a casual and quirky first meeting.

Play tourists together

While hopping onto tours and paying to get into exhibit might add up quickly, exploring pockets of the city neither of you have been in would be a fun alternative to going indoors and eating. Dedicate an afternoon to checking out landmarks, parks and other attractions you have never seen. You will gain a fresh perspective and new appreciation for what makes your hometown great. Whether that’s checking out a new park installation, doing a mural walk together, or walking around a particularly impressive neighborhood with architecture, you will have an awesome time.

Go on an appetisers’ date

If you decide to go down the bar route but are nervous about what the other person will order onto your split tab, make sure to pick a place that you know has great happy hour deals on appetisers. Sharing bar snacks or ordering small plates with your drink is another way to keep the costs low. That way, you don’t have to miss out on the sweet potato fries, but you don’t have to break the bank either.

Do a trivia night together

Getting in on an activity together is fun, and it has the added bonus of taking your attention away from any possible butterflies. So, to nix any expensive dinner or drink options, try going to a Trivia Night at a decently priced bar. Many bars hold friendly competitions that focus on a specific genre or TV series or just pop culture in general.

Check out a gallery

Chances are that you don’t visit many museums or galleries on your regular off-duty time; so, take advantage of your booked evening by heading to an exhibition you haven’t seen. Some museums and galleries are also free, so check out free exhibitions followed by a drink. You can get to know each other over an interesting artifact or exhibition. It’s a great way to explore parts of your city you wouldn’t normally!

Keep it at two-drink limit

If you’re not into creative venues and just want to keep it easy at a bar, that’s totally fine. Just put yourself on a two-drink limit. Your first date is more of an interview. If you like them, invite them out for a second date where you won’t feel so guilty spending a little more cash. Dating can be tricky sometimes, but it shouldn’t be painful to your wallet. Keep these ideas in mind and you will leave these meet-ups in one piece.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]