What would you do if your spouse abandoned you on sickbed for a Valentine’s Day treat with someone else?
Ojoi Igajah

Valentine’s Day is observed by many people from across the world as a day to give and receive love. It is often marked by parties, dinners, exchange of cards, gifts and flowers. Saturday PUNCH asked Nigerians what they would do if their partners left them on their sickbed on this very special day to have a Valentine’s Day treat with someone else.

I’d be angry for a while – Bukky George

To me, Valentine’s Day is no big deal, so I don’t celebrate it. However, if my husband should leave me on that day on my sickbed, I would be angry for sure. But there is nothing I can do and life will certainly have to go on. Marriage is for life and I don’t have the luxury of walking out of it because of a Valentine’s Day squabble. I will simply wait for him to come back; then, I would express my displeasure at his action. Then, we’d both look for a way to settle it as a couple.

She can’t try it – Francis Eze

I would be extremely mad if she did that. The Bible says “and two became one’’. If I’m sick, it means you shouldn’t even feel happy, let alone leaving my side to go and party with someone else. Except maybe we were supposed to go together before I fell ill and I was fully aware of the event she was going for and the people that would be there. Aside from that, there is absolutely no excuse for her to leave my side when I’m sick to go celebrate Valentine’s Day.

It’s obvious he’s only interested in fun – Cynthia Dalatu

If my partner does that, then it’s obvious he is just interested in fun and not what the term relationship truly means. If one does not go out on Valentine’s Day, it doesn’t mean that there won’t be another day to make up for it. A serious-minded man should be able to discern that real love spans beyond the month of February. If he does that, it’s a sure pointer to the fact that he can cheat on me for the most superficial reason. I’m engaged but if that should happen and I see a better man, I’ll dump him without thinking twice about it.

What is Valentine’s Day without love? – Kingsely Italumhe

If Valentine’s Day is described as a day to show love and the one that I love is not there by my side, then what good is that? She is supposed to be my better half and the thought of her not being on my side on that day, let alone knowing that she went for a treat with someone else will be killing. I don’t think I can forgive my partner if she displays such an attitude now that we are courting. If that happened, what would she do when we eventually get married?

He can’t even try that – Victoria Michael

Marriage is not for one person alone; it is for partners. If I’m sick and bedridden, that means it is serious. My husband cannot leave me in the hospital on Valentine’s Day just to go have fun while I’m in pain. There is absolutely no justification for that and I’ll be very angry if that should happen to me. It may be different if he went for a business meeting or something serious, but leaving me to go and have fun means something is wrong somewhere.

It depends on the kind of ailment – Peter Uwazie

If it happens when I’m really ill and have no strength to move around, I would wait till I get better and after that, I would break up with her. Any woman that prefers enjoyment to taking care of her partner when he is down does not deserve a good man because she herself is not a good woman. There is no need continuing with such a relationship because it is obvious there is no love in it.

I don’t pray for such an experience – Chiamaka Nwafor

I know my partner very well; he can’t go out to have fun, especially on a Valentine’s Day without me. I can only allow that happen if I can’t move at all, if not, I will stand up from the sickbed and follow him. He must take me wherever he is going; after all, the Bible clearly states that marriage must thrive even in sickness and in health. We would have a serious problem if he objects to my going with him; then, he would tell me if he has someone else.

It’s better to let her go – Maxwell Ayodele

To be sincere, I would feel rejected and heartbroken for my woman to leave me when ill just because she wants to enjoy Valentine’s Day with someone else. It goes a long way to show that she doesn’t love me and she’s only in it for the good times. I will simply pick up my phone and tell her never to come back again. She must follow the person who gave her a treat home since she couldn’t wait for me to get better.

I’ll give him a second chance – Gloria Orok

I will be really mad at him and if he apologises, it will take time for me to forgive him, but I will inevitably have to forgive him because I believe in family and the institution of marriage and won’t let one mistake take that away. But if that should happen again, I would make sure that he pays for it one way or the other, but certainly not by divorcing him. We are married so we will always have to settle our differences, no matter how bad it may be.

I would push her out of my life – Kency Dan

How can any lady with reasoning capacity take such an action? That’s sheer stupidity on her part. If you can ditch me on Valentine’s Day just to have fun, then you can cheat on me on our wedding night. The best action a man can ever take is to get such a woman out of his life. Such a person is not fit to be called a woman. She has no compassion.

”Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]