Saying ‘no’ is a sign of strength in marriage
Elizabeth Badejo

Trying to please your spouse all the time is not always an expression of love but obsession which can be extremely destructive for the individual and the marriage as a whole.

Marriage is not about pleasing your spouse and displeasing yourself, saying ‘No’ to your spouse when it matters is not disloyalty; but not knowing how or when to say ‘No’ in your marital relationship can be attributed to issues, such as inferiority complex, insecurity, principles or intimidation.

‘No’ compromise

We often say that marriage is about compromising and accepting your partner for who he is; but in reality, compromising can sometimes jeopardise your chances of building a great marriage.

Saying ‘No’ when you strongly believe that your spouse’s decisions are not going to benefit your marriage is definitely not something you really want to compromise on. You do not always have to be on the same page when making important choices but you can reaffirm your opinion when you say ‘No’ in a very caring manner.

‘No’to agree

Diversity is a great element of a marriage and understanding your differences as a couple and appreciating as well as encouraging each other’s strengths and weaknesses are great for diversities in your marriage. Create room for self expression so that no one feels disadvantaged when the other one says ‘No’. It is only when you learn to say ‘No’ and disagree that you can encourage your partner to understand and agree also.

‘No’ to failure

Just like every business where success is key for growth and continuity, marriage is a joint venture; perhaps, the most important partnership you will ever sign. Nevertheless, you must both create room for freedom of expression.

Just like any joint venture, you have to bring your individual opinion and submission on board and saying ‘No’ sometimes can make a difference when making very important decisions together. Saying ‘No’ to stand your own ground is a way of nurturing and empoweringyourself in order to set boundaries and realistic goals for you and your marriage.

‘No’ to bigotry

Although, we live in the 20th century; unfortunately, in some certain cultural groups, women are still seen as subordinates to their husbands and saying ‘No’ is not acceptable and neither is it a controversy. The men make and break the rules and such cultures are bias in ways that intends to bring couples together but in practice, it discriminates against the woman and her freedom of expression.

‘No’ sentiments

Perhaps you are finding it difficult to say ‘No’ to your spouse to avoid conflicts and disagreements, remember that you were an individual first before you became a pair. And it is therefore important that you don’t continue to live in denial. You should be able to say ‘No’ to your spouse when you don’t feel intimately connected. A good spouse will certainly share your feelings and will realise that your action is unintentional.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]