Girls, sexual purity gives you supernatural intelligence!
Temilolu Okeowo

Why are you just misleading these girls? Teach them safe sex and how to identify predators instead of deceiving them that sex is evil. It’s even the pastors of these youth fellowships that end up having sex with these vulnerable girls all in the name of fellowship. Having sex will not make you any less successful, you charlatan.

08023455795

My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian sisters,

I’m so glad this column is frustrating some deadbeat Lotharios out there who have taken solace in the ever-needy, financially-incapacitated average Nigerian girl! I had planned to discuss 10 crucial things you need to do urgently in order to enjoy and make the most of 2018; however, I got a text message from one of these men which I needed to address and also further encourage you to preserve your virginity till marriage! Imagine a charlatan-detector who was not even bold enough to disclose his identity, telling me to teach you to practise safe sex! Imagine the devil telling me I’m misleading you girls by telling you to stay chaste till your wedding night. Since the inception of this column, there has never been a time when sex as ordained by God was regarded evil. And that’s why right from my very first article here, I’ve always included my final word which encourages you to abstain from premarital sex and extramarital sex! May the devil continue to get angry in Jesus’ name!

Girls…girls…girls, take it or leave it, if you want to stand out among your peers, if you want to be extraordinarily intelligent and be super-successful in life, your greatest weapon yet is your sexual purity now! It can fetch you just about anything! It is what you need to lay a solid foundation for a most beautiful future! BUT WHY THE HURRY TO HAVE SEX? In the first instance, when you have no time for boyfriends in your teens, you are not distracted and you have all the time and all your energy focused on your studies/getting good grades not wondering if your boyfriend is dating another girl, not worrying about the effects of contraceptives on your body, STDs, getting pregnant, etc. On the other hand, I can tell you for a fact and from experience that sexual purity sharpens your spiritual perception! It makes you spiritually intelligent and gives so much unsolicited information. Can you imagine knowing all the questions you have to attempt during your examinations even before the timetable is set? Can you imagine knowing the pitfalls the devil has designed to make you fail in life or stop you in your tracks from going forward? Can you imagine knowing the trouble awaiting you as a result of the next action you want to take? Can you imagine knowing what someone really thinks about you? Can you imagine receiving instructions all the world’s General Overseers put together cannot give you to conquer a battle that has made you wish you were never born? I am writing from experience! IF YOU’RE UNMARRIED AND SEXUALLY-ACTIVE, THE DEVIL SURELY HAS AN UPPER HAND IN YOUR LIFE!!!

By being sexually-pure and living a life of holiness, the Holy Spirit submerges your life and YOU KNOW ALL THINGS, YOU KNOW ALL THINGS, YOU KNOW ALL THINGS my sweeties! 1 John 2:20 KJV. And by the time God is done with you, you’d be smoking hot, you’d have fire in your bones and on your heels, even your swag will be different. The best of eligible bachelors won’t be able to take their eyes or mind off you! Your aura will magnetise the best people and the best things in life. Why? Because you carry a heavy dose of the presence of God! Everything about you will be as sweet as honey; your life will be as colourful as a beautiful well-tended garden. Even the sex you decided to keep away from will be mind-blowing whether you are good at it or not! May you end up with a good man; and one that God pairs you with-THAT MAN THAT’LL MELT EVERY TIME HE SEES YOU TILL ETERNITY!

Virgins, YOUR GREATEST UNDOING WILL BE GIVING YOUR VIRGINITY AWAY TO ANYONE LESS THAN YOUR HUSBAND! It could make your life spin out of control! Believe me! The consequences are far too complicated. This is because after one encounter with anyone but your husband, you will most likely end up sleeping with different men. I don’t even want to go into the resultant effect of that. If you are wise enough to activate the power of God in you, you will never miss your divinely-ordained spouse! He’s worth keeping yourself for and worth the waiting! However, if you’ve been sexually-active, retracing your steps and becoming a secondary virgin could save the day! But you’ve got a lot of work to do in order not to go back to your vomit! Instead of feeling bad after reading this, change your ways and let God have an upper hand in your life! I love, love you all!

I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO (not Temilolu okeowo girls club or TEMILOLU OKEOWO Girls Club group). Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu.

Scam Alert: Temilolu okeowo girls club page and group as well as Temilolu cares for you are fake Facebook accounts.

Are you still engaging in premarital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a Secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and State of domicile to 07086620576.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]