20 sexual health encounters that can spoil Christmas for couples
Funmi Akingbade

Christmas is something everybody looks forward to and not only because it is a season of celebration, it is also a season where spouses exchange love, catches up on many things and also look forward to cherished memories. But I have discovered that many times, these desires become short-lived because of so many past neglected and unattended sexual health encounters and challenges that have been subtlety posing as a threat. These may eventually turn the Christmas to a dread instead of a cherished moment.

To start off on this health encounters, we shall focus mostly on the men. Many husbands would agree with me that their penis is their most favourite organ this Christmas season and beyond. The question is what happens when this penis is not behaving as it should. It definitely makes everything goes bad. This is because the penis actually has a connection with a man’s mind, his body and his total self-esteem.

Therefore, a penis that is functioning properly is fundamental to a man’s self-esteem and total well-being. Many wives would also agree with me that one of the catalysts of good festive period is the stimulation of romantic sexual activities and when something goes wrong with such, there would be a problem with everything. So, we shall be looking into some of these bad omens and how to quickly fix them up for a blissful Christmas.

One: It’s not news that many husbands today can start and finish sexual activity in just a micro minute or few minutes, while countless of married women take longer time to get aroused and become properly prepared (physically and emotionally) and eventually take ages to get to orgasm. But reaching orgasm and ejaculating at one’s partner’s desired time is always a question many married wives want answers to. One way to make this a thing of the past is to handle premature ejaculation as an enemy and not a friend. Given the several heartrending letters (and I can tell you that some of these letters bring tears to the eyes) that we have received from men who are victims of premature ejaculation; I have decided that solutions should be as extensive as possible. These solutions involve series of steps, which has to be well understood.

Two: Let us deal with the easy part first. Ever since the advent of drugs, especially in pill forms, the quest to find immediate and easy solutions to health problems, even when basic changes in attitude or behaviours are the only things needed, has become common place. Therefore, I am not surprised that many of the people who write to ask for solutions to premature ejaculation problems often ask for the name of drugs that they could take. Are there such drugs for premature ejaculation? Yes, there are some. Can I vouch for them? Yes, I can and at the same time, no, I cannot vouch for some. I will not do these for two reasons. One: When it comes to drugs for sexual enhancements or improvements, I am always reluctant to offer advice. Sex, I believe, is a man’s most natural activity and should be kept as such. Two: The proven disadvantages of using some of these drugs, in all cases, outweigh their known advantages. The only one that has been proven to have few or no side effect is the great freedom-fighter drug for now.

Three: One of the most popular is a group of anesthetic gel that deadens or dulls the sensitivity of the penis and thus, ensures that it takes a while before a man comes. While this gel has been known to work, the problem is that it has also been discovered to dull women’s sensitivity. Not only would she not feel anything, she may also not reach orgasm. It has also been known to cause skin rashes, redness and soreness. Besides this, what doctors do, especially in Europe and North America, is to treat premature ejaculation with anti-depressants. This practice, although common abroad, is very dangerous, because some of these drugs have dangerous side effects like psychiatric problems, skin diseases and changes in body weight.

Four: In fact, experts have expressed doubts concerning many drugs. Even the wonder drug that is said to be used to treat premature ejaculation has many side effects. It has been discovered to expose those who tested it to psychiatric problems, skin reactions, increase in body weight, lower sex-drive, nausea, headache, stomach upset and weakness. I do not know much about herbal drugs used for this condition, but I know that some of the herbal treatments available are stimulants. As a result, they may also have undesirable side effects, and may even be dangerous for old men.

Five: Another quick fix are some condoms that are said to prevent premature ejaculation. One of them is the ‘long love condom’, which was developed by German scientist. The problem again is that anesthetic is also used in making this condom and this may pose some risks for men who are sensitive to some chemicals. My advice for those who will insist on using drugs or gel is that they should consult a doctor before doing so. This would invariably save them future headaches.

Six: Another solution that I consider a quick fix is testicular restraint. This is a small device, which is like a rubber ring that can be worn to prevent quick ejaculation during intercourse. The problem is that it is cumbersome, and it can cause discomfort that could subsist after intercourse.

Seven: So, what works? Before talking about this, I would like to reiterate that contrary to the belief of many, there are no sudden quick fixes for premature ejaculation, when you want to go natural. The natural solutions are simple, practical and cost nothing. Whoever is interested in solving premature ejaculation naturally must be willing to spend time and efforts, and then wait patiently to reap the rewards.

Eight: Make sure you have a good communication with your spouse. This is the reason experts always advise couples to discuss problems like premature ejaculation and ensure that they are both involved in finding solutions. When you talk it over with your partner, then you would feel less pressure to perform because any form of pressure on men before or during sex, is capable of bringing about premature ejaculation. It is always better for a man to be relaxed.

Nine: Mainly, there are two procedures that I would recommend and these two are the most effective solutions to premature ejaculation. Most of the men that have battled premature ejaculation successfully have relied on either of these two. Before talking about these two, I would also talk about related behavioural changes that can help win this war. One of this is called ‘stop and start’. It is a psychosexual technique where a man would thrust to a point where ejaculation is just around the corner, and then stop. He would then wait until the feeling of enjoyment and the urge to ejaculate goes down. Then the man would start again, and stop just before ejaculation. This can be repeated like three or four times. This is an effective way of controlling ejaculation, and when this exercise is done often, a man’s control over his ejaculation would considerably improve. This would be better achieved if Kegel exercise has been practiced long before now.

Ten: Changing positions have also been known to help. It has been discovered that ejaculation is delayed in some men when they alternate positions. In situations where premature ejaculation occurs because of anxiety and stress, breathing techniques (such as breathing deeply and in a relaxed way during sex) have also been found to help. During sex, the body tries to breathe deeply. But men, because they always want to be seen in control, try to fight it. They want to leave the panting and grunting to the women, but this can be counterproductive. However, when you spend time thinking of staying in control, you might lose control over your ejaculation. For a start, try taking series of deep breaths during sex. It has been known to help in ejaculatory control.

Eleven: Balanitis, which is the swelling of the foreskin and head of the penis, is usually a common occurrence during Christmas or any festive period. This is because many husbands, especially the uncircumcised ones, do not observe good sexual and toilet hygiene. The best way to prevent this problem is to make sure that your husband urinates immediately after sex and also cleans up with flowing water immediately after sex. It is also advisable for a man that has had such a disease before to always eat two raw tomatoes daily.

Most of the emergency phone calls I usually get during festive periods are from wives of men who have bent penis. When a man with a bent penis does not observe special rules regarding the use of his ‘tool’, especially during times of celebrations, things may go amiss and haywire. Curvature of the penis is an abnormal bend in the penis that occurs during erection. It is also called Peyronie disease. In Peyronie disease, fibrous scar tissue develops in the deep tissues of the penis. The cause of this fibrous tissue is often not known. It can occur spontaneously. It can also be due to a previous injury to the penis, even one that occurred many years ago. Fracture of the penis (injury during intercourse) can lead to this condition. Men are at higher risk of developing curvature of the penis after surgery or radiation treatment for prostate cancer. Peyronie disease is uncommon. It affects men who are between the ages of 40 and 60 and even older. Newborn babies may have a curvature of the penis. This may be part of an abnormality called Chordee, which is different from Peyronie disease.

Twelve: During festive periods, sexually transmitted diseases spread rapidly. One of the ways most men discover this is when they experience pain along the base of the penis, which is an offshoot of an inflammation of the tube that connects the testicles with the vas deferens called epididymitis. It is most often caused by the spread of a bacterial infection. Infection often begins in the urethra, the prostate, or the bladder. Gonorrhoea and Chlamydia infections are most often the cause of the problem. Some of the things that increase the risk of this include enlarged prostate and having sexual intercourse with more than one partner without using condoms.

Thirteen: Retrograde ejaculation is another problem affecting many husbands nowadays. It occurs when semen goes backward into the bladder. Normally, it moves forward and out of the penis through the urethra during ejaculation. Retrograde ejaculation most often occurs when the opening of the bladder (bladder neck) does not close up. Retrograde ejaculation may be caused by diabetes. I advise men to always check their fasting blood sugar level and random blood sugar level at all times.

Fourteen: Husbands, the best time to watch out for your prostrate performance is right now, because it produces your testosterone. Testosterone is the most important sex hormone that men have. It is responsible for the typical male characteristics, such as facial, pubic, and body hair, as well as muscle. This hormone also helps maintain sex drive, sperm production, and bone health. The brain and pituitary gland (a small gland at the base of the brain) control the production of testosterone by the testes. In the short term, low testosterone (also called hypogonadism) can cause a drop in sex drive, poor erections, low sperm count and enlarged breasts. Over time, low testosterone may cause a man to gain body fat and lose body hair, muscle bulk, and strength. Chronic (long term) low testosterone may also cause weak bones (osteoporosis), mood changes, less energy, and smaller testes. However, the signs and symptoms (what you see and feel) vary from man to another man.

Fifteen: Lack of sexual desire in women has been an ongoing thing. Although lack of sexual desire was least common in younger married women, it still affected more than 10 per cent of women between the ages of 20 and 24. It also affected about 20 per cent of women between the ages of 25 and 29, though it was most common in women in their 50s and 60s. But even though the incidence goes up with age, low desire is definitely not just an issue for older women. Between work exhaustion, psychological distress, body image issues, relationship conflicts, birth control, and antidepressants, there are a number of reasons why you might not want to have sex. The best way to fix this is to relax and take stock. It’s important to take stock of anything in your life that might be affecting your arousal, so you can work on the problem on your own because many times, you may likely not need medication.

Sixteen: Another thing that is coming in women during this period is extreme dryness of vagina. Interestingly, lubrication difficulties are common between the ages of 16 and 49. After menopause and hormonal changes, the rate, understandably, gets much higher. Issues with lubrication can make sex uncomfortable or even painful. So, it’s not a problem you can easily ignore. Vaginal dryness might be caused by dehydration, certain over-the-counter medications, exclusive breastfeeding, or changing levels of hormone during menopause. Using a good lubricant is a great way to combat the problem, and may I say that an extensive foreplay and the use of the husband’s saliva have been a good solution so far.

Seventeen: Frigidity has always been an issue that husbands often complain about but they need to know that there are no ‘frigid women’ but ‘women with trouble to reach climax’. Climaxing easily affects mostly wives between the ages of 20 and 24 and gradually decreasing in women through their late 20s, 30s, and 40s. The rate increases again when women reach their 50s.

So why are married women in their early 20s mostly having issues reaching orgasm? The most likely reason is that this is the time when women are more likely to start being sexually active and learn about what would arouse and stimulate them. But as they get older, they’re more likely to have found a consistent sexual pattern of good foreplay and romance and become more comfortable and knowledgeable about what turns them on. All of this can make reaching orgasm a lot easier.

Eighteen: It has been recorded that close to 45 per cent of married women experience painful sex. It is frequently reported by women of all ages but it is found to be less common in women in their 30s and 40s. Rates steadily climb back up once women hit their 50s, which is likely due to menopause and hormonal changes later in life. But one of the real reasons for painful sex within all age brackets in many wives is that their husbands either skip foreplay or does a bad job by being clumsy, rough and egoistic in their approach.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]