How to de-clutter your love life in 2018
The new year marks the perfect time to start over and set goals in your life.

If you’re single and stuck in a rut, dating coach Siobhan Copland says there’s no better excuse than the beginning of 2018 to really take stock of your love life and de-clutter.

The professional matchmaker advises the best way to ring in the new year is to refocus your approach to achieve a healthier and romantic life.

But that means taking action and following several key steps, such as the following:

Dump the friend with benefits

Seeing someone casually who ‘fulfills certain needs’ is a big no-no, according to Siobhan, who says it’s time to cut out the energy zapper.

“When they’re not available at your beck and call, it becomes frustrating and could well be getting in the way of you being fully emotionally available when the right one comes along.

“Best to leave that arrangement in 2017, and wait for the full package,” she said.

Be picky with sex

Sex, after all, is also an exchange of energy. Be picky with who you share your energy with, she counsels.

Experiment sexually

Liberating your sexual self is another tip high on the dating coach’s list of advice when tending to your love life.

She says practising being confident sexually by yourself will help when getting between the sheets with a new person.

“Get to like your body and know what turns you on,” she says; stressing that you don’t need to be a porn star in bed to be sexy. Just be comfortable in your own nakedness.

Streamline your online dating

Siobhan also advises against spreading yourself too thin. Instead, if you are using online dating apps, stick to just one and improve your profile.

Pick one app where you feel you can find your tribe. And keep your profile short and sweet.

‘Think of three things you would like to find in common with someone, and include it in your bio. Steer away from saying what you don’t want,” she says.

Go on a blind date

Siobhan says that your friends can be key to meeting someone, so ask them to set you up with a friend of a friend or even join a matchmaking service and get someone to do the hard work for you.

(Daily Mail)