How would you react if you found out that your spouse gave their ex a gift during Yuletide?
Tomi Mark-Adewunmi

Talking about one’s ex is often something people are not comfortable with in a relationship. It could lead to a break-up should a partner discover their spouse still has feelings for their ex. Though this period is regarded as a season to give and show love, Saturday PUNCH asked some Nigerians how they would feel if they found out their spouses gave their ex gifts this Yuletide

I might lose my trust for her – Olusola Olubobokun

To be frank, I would not feel anything. Whether my wife gives her ex a gift or not doesn’t change anything. It doesn’t mean she would leave me for him. We are married and nothing can change that fact. This does not, however, mean I would not confront her and ask why she gave her ex the gift without my consent. If she truthfully tells me the reason, there would be no problem; life goes on, but if not, then I might lose my trust for her.

I’d run for my life before she breaks my heart -Adelaja Adesina

If I were a lady, honestly, I wouldn’t care, but because I’m a man, I would care. The reason is that a man could give an ex a gift without any strings attached, but if my wife should give her ex a gift this season, it speaks volume. It means she is probably still interested in him and as such, it may lead to the beginning of the collapse of our union. Women are tender-hearted and so they easily get emotionally connected. In short, she must have a very genuine reason for doing so, or else, I would run for my dear life before she breaks my heart.

My love for her would reduce -Oduleye Omotayo

If my fiancé gave her ex a gift and she did not tell me and I found out myself, it means there is a lot more to that gift. My trust for her would reduce and I would not be happy with her until she tells me why exactly she did that. I cannot end the relationship because I love her, but she must apologise to me. Even with her apology, I cannot maintain the level of trust I might have had for her.

I’d react based on the type of gift -Wole Felemu

If she gave her ex the gift secretly, I would be concerned and ask her why she did so. If she had told me about it and there was no hidden agenda behind it, I would not be worried. Meanwhile, it depends on the kind of gift. If it was Christmas or new year hamper, it is fine by me. As for me, an ex is still a friend based on the foundation of the relationship and what led to the end of the relationship. A relationship is created by being friends first, and if the relationship ends, it doesn’t mean the friendship should.

I’d be angry with her -Tobi Ojurongbe

I don’t think it would go down well with me, but above all, what matters most in a relationship is mutual understanding between the partners. If she had discussed it with me before taking such a step, I would probably not be offended. But in a situation where I found out myself, I would be really angry with her. But like I said, if you trust and understand the person you are with, you should be able to know what she is capable of doing. It is really not healthy for issues about an ex to come up in a relationship.

I wouldn’t take it lightly with him -Nwachukwu Hope

If I should find out that my husband gave his ex a gift because of the season, it is going to be a very big issue because I would not understand why he should be giving a gift to his ex. If he is giving her a gift, it means he is still attached to her, he still wants something from her or he still has something to do with her, which means he has to decide whether he wants me or his ex. It does not make sense at all — giving your ex an unwarranted gift. I would not take it lightly with him.

I have no problem with it – Eniola Adegbuyi

I would be cool with it, after all, this season is all about giving and receiving, and even if I am angry, which I know cannot happen, I would gently ask him why he did not tell me before giving her the gift. He is my husband, so he should be able to give me a clear explanation. I would let it go if his explanation is okay by me, but if not, I would tell him not to do so again. We are together to talk and agree on issues, so nothing should be done secretly.

I’d get his ex’s phone number, then warn her – Anie Ufia

I strongly believe that in any relationship, communication is very essential. My spouse should tell me about it and seek my permission before doing such. However, if he didn’t and I found out, I would ask him nicely and we would settle the issue. Then, I would get the ex’s number from his phone, call her and warn her to stay away from my husband.

I’d make sure he regrets his action – Temiloluwa Olatunji

I would feel bad and react terribly to it. I would ask him, ‘What relationship do you still have with your ex that is that special? It means you have not left your past and moved on.’ I would see the situation as though he still has something fishy to do with his ex. I don’t need to ask him for any explanation because for no reason should he have done that. I would make sure he regrets such an action.

It’s natural, I’d be jealous – Osungbade Ayomide

I would be jealous. He couldn’t have given her a gift if he didn’t have feelings for her. Hence, I would talk to him and ask why he gave her the gift without my consent and I would ask him if he still has feelings for her. In spite of any answer he gives me, I would be jealous. It would look immature threatening the lady, so I would leave her alone and confront my spouse. Also, my trust for him would reduce.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]