How to sustain new habits in your marriage this new year
Building great habits to boost your marital relationship can be simply effortless for many couples but sustaining them is definitely not going to be a walk in the park for so many others. When you think about habits as a constant pattern of behaviour that is likely to crop up subconsciously, it can become very difficult to change and even when it is possible to change, it can be a struggle to sustain in the end.

Have you and your partner been having difficulties sustaining new habits or perhaps your partner is simply too comfortable in his/her same old ways? The truth is that change is like rewriting your values in a way and making room for a brand new life together and that can look almost unachievable for some for several reasons, most especially, if they are set in their ways.

UNDERSTAND THE CHANGES

Inasmuch as change is inevitable, it can become a risky affair in marriage if you fail to understand the person you are married to and how long it may take him/her to adapt to the new habits. Do not only focus on who you want your spouse to become through the changes, but also keep in touch with the present man or woman and lend your own support through the process of change.

BE OPEN & SINCERE

You must take time to recognise each other’s long-term goals and aspirations and infuse habits which can be of immense benefit to fulfilling them; by doing so, you are also able to sustain them.

Sincerity is very important in the process towards any positive change; therefore, it is essential to understand what you both stand to gain as individuals and as a couple too.

RECOGNISE VULNERABILITY

Habits can also be sustained when you both appreciate each other’s vulnerability which can sometimes come with maturity and the aging process. Understanding each other’s physical as well as emotional strengths, and sharing your fears for certain habits will go a long way. And frankly, the best habit you can ever create as a couple is to build a great partnership towards a sustainable future together.

CHANGE YOUR PERCEPTIONS

One of the most significant ways you can positively sustain good habits is to change your mindsets as a couple. When you both agree that nothing is impossible to achieve and you are not prepared to limit yourselves, you will be opening your minds to new ideas and fresh opportunities needed to sustain great habits in your marriage.

EMBRACE CRITICISMS

Everyone needs someone to motivate them, so criticism is an essential process of change. Embrace criticisms together as a couple and also be open to self-criticisms as an individual too. Nothing good comes easy, it may take a while to sustain new habits but your combined determination and desires to build a strong and blissful marriage together will make it easier to sustain them.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]