30 ways for married couples to enjoy sex in 2018 (2)
Funmi Akingbade

Thirteen: You can prevent this from happening by taking minutes to be still, looking your spouse in the eye, kissing their eyes carefully, stroking their hair, complimenting them, and reaffirming your love for each other. Even if your wife’s hair is almost gone, cradle her head, caress the head and tell her you know she lost her hair while in your house and that you are ready to help her regain it back. When you begin to touch each other, things will feel different, more intense and fulfilling again.

Fourteen: Wife, when you are in missionary position and while your husband is thrusting in and out; to make it more intense, wrap your arms and legs around his body and pull him closer to you for deep penetration.

Fifteen: Don’t just lay still; match the rhythm of each thrust so that your bodies move together.

Sixteen: Holding hands during sex is intimate and loving.

Seventeen: Grabbing your spouse’s hands is also a romantic way for you to provide added support and balance when they are moving up and down on top of you.

Eighteen: Alternate this position to having the wife on top, and if husband gets the moves right, it is guaranteed to take your wife’s breath away. Encourage her to straddle you on the edge of the bed and give her neck and breasts plenty of loving attention as she moves on top of you. You can also lift her by placing your hands under her thighs, slowly turn her around, and lay her back on the bed. If you are good at multitasking, kiss her continually as you do this. Confidence is not only built, you graduate from an amateur to an expert. However, it takes constant practice and patience to arrive here.

Nineteen: Hmm! Well, I am certain the guides mentioned above are not only a bonus to the newlyweds but also an eye opener to old couples.

Twenty: Now, to the wives out there, what do you think great sex is to your husband? For some husbands, it might be the ability to get themselves and their wives ‘fantabulous’ multiple orgasms. For others, it might mean being able to last for eight to 11 minutes, which is considered the average. However, for majority of husbands, great sex is in the hand of their wives. Last week, we started this extraordinary edition and today we are concluding it.

Twenty-one: Well, do you know that the testicles are very sensitive to both touch and temperature, so having a hot and wet tongue slide over them is extremely pleasurable. You may wonder how your tongue can produce both sensations concurrently. As I noted earlier, just sip a cup of hot mint drink now and then alternatively while the tongue caressing is ongoing. For the ultimate lick, a wife should start at the bottom or even behind the testicles, and keep licking upward until she gets to the tip of the manhood, at which point, she can slide it into her mouth.

Twenty-two: To increase the intensity of the pleasure at any given time, a wife can wrap a dominant hand around the shaft of the manhood and move it up and down. With the other hand, she can cup the testicles gently but firmly. When a man approaches orgasm, his testicles pull up close to his body and by stimulating the motion, a wife brings her husband close to heaven. Remember to be very gentle here: total feminine control and total masculine comfort is required.

Twenty–three: To create an unbearable height of pleasure, couples can pleasure each other at the same time. If you try this, you will see that it will result in different sensations pulsing through your bodies. This type of pleasuring is call ‘angle 69°’ or ‘sideway 69’.

Twenty-four: This is a real treat for couples: all you need to do as spouse is rest each other’s head on the inside of your partner’s thigh, so you can lick and suck each other comfortably. This allows you to relax and go much easier. Wife, this is not a difficult task at all, just tilt your head back slightly and guide the shaft of your husband’s manhood with a firm hand and take as much of it into your mouth. Husband, you also should pull your wife’s waist down to yourself gently and while she is on top of you, you also pleasure her.

Twenty-five: Wife, while your husband is licking you, help him by opening your legs wide. When invariably he cannot take it any longer and wants to penetrate, as he does so, shut your legs and squeeze your thighs tightly together. This position helps his penis to rub your clitoris – and it gives him a sensation of tightness. Many wives complain that they cannot get to tighten their vagina as they desire. Just practise Kegel exercise frequently and this will be easy.

Twenty-six: Husband, to earn yourself a great approval and enthusiastic response, you can quickly change position and go down on your wife while she is standing on a chair. This gives her a lot of freedom to move, respond, and feel pampered at the same time, while you are having a fantastic viewpoint and full access to her.

Twenty-seven: Remember, nothing impresses a woman like the ability to be fingered by her husband. The best way to do this is to lick the clitoris while slowly sliding one or two fingers in and out of her. As she gets excited, try maintaining a steady, gentle, pulsing pressure on the front [pubic hair side] inside wall of the vagina, which is where the ‘G-spot is. This also helps the husband to maintain an erection. According to research, a normal erection can stay as long as 40 minutes or more.

Twenty-eight: The granddaddy of all ultimate pleasures is to let your wife take hold of your manhood like never before. Here, you stand and flip your wife upside down so that her legs are on either side of your head. She can then take hold of your manhood and do justice to it. Couples must be very careful with this style, especially when the spouse is obese or big.

Twenty-nine: Most time, typical Nigerian couples do not have enough time for the above treats; however, there are other fabulous techniques that could be adopted just to maximise pleasure for couples, especially when time is not on your side. Wife, you can send a short SMS to your husband, saying, ‘Please spare me ten minutes out of your tight schedule to pleasure your manhood in my bed before your next board meeting’.

Thirty: On the other hand, you can say: ‘My breasts are cold; they need a massage from you’. Then again, you can say: ‘I have my bed waiting to give your manhood the only thing it was created for – pleasure!’ Alternatively, you can send a succession of increasingly seductive and suggestive e-mails, telling him how wonderfully made his manhood is and that you want his ‘rod’ to comfort you. This approach most times drive husbands wild in bed and from researches, it has never failed because many husbands come back begging for more. Wow, I cannot wait to hear from you. Until then, keep your sex life and passion aflame and until I see you next week, I remain your devoted and loyal bedroom instructor.

Questions and answers

Are male erections at the same level throughout one’s lifespan?

Funmi, kindly help out here: are male erections at the same level throughout one’s lifespan? Or are there changes with the erections of people with different skin colours?

Joseph Okoronko

Well these facts are common about male erections.

Fact No. 1: Men experience three kinds of erections. While erections only indicate the hardness of the penis when sexual arousal occurs, it comes from different sources, either physical or psychological; and these are:

Reflexogenic – erections triggered through touching or physical contact. Psychogenic – erections triggered through fantasy. Nocturnal – erections occurred during REM (Rapid Eye Movement) sleep.

Fact No. 2: Many men experience up to 11 erections during the day, and three to five erections during the night, while asleep.

Fact No. 3: Male foeteses have erections as early as 16 weeks during pregnancy.

Fact No. 4: Smell of some sex trigger foods can increase blood flow to the penis by 32 per cent, according to Chicago Smell and Taste Treatment and Research Foundation. The researchers discovered this during their study back in 1995.

Fact No. 5: To achieve hard erections, the penis needs approximately 130ml of blood to fill up the erectile chambers, which is the same amount of ink in certain printer ink cartridges or less than 4 shots of whiskey at 35ml each shot.

Fact No. 6: The longest known erect penis is 13.5 inches long by Jonah Falcon, but recently one man named Roberto Esquivel Cabrera, took the record, but not officially.

Fact No. 7: Smoking, especially as teenager, doubles the risk of erectile dysfunction.

Fact No. 8: The venom found in Brazilian wandering spider can cause a persistent and usually painful erection lasting for hours.

Fact No. 9: There are benefits of having frequent sex and one of them is prevention of erectile dysfunction in men aged 55 to 75 years old.

Two studies, according to Harvard, also found that frequent sexual intercourse is helpful for maintaining a healthy prostate.

Please explain to my wife what ‘surrender’ sex is

Hello Funmi, my wife feels the sexual relationship between us is a boss-servant-surrender sex and she says she doesn’t enjoy sex with me. Now, she has withheld sex from me, saying she dislikes the way I ask for sex. She feels that I am a dictator and not a lover; she accuses me of only satisfying my passion. I try to explain to her that it is a man’s thing to conquer a woman sexually and that it is not a boss-servant-thing. Please kindly help to explain because my bed is suffering now.

Michael Agbodoja

I do not think the nature of the ‘surrender’ sex is the issue here, but your lack of understanding of the sexual nature of a woman. I also perceive that you naturally skip loving acts, caressing and romance before, during and even after sex. When wives start giving you all the excuses stated above, it simply means you are not being sensitive to their sexual nature and you are also being self-centered in your approach to sexual demands and also neglecting their needs.

However, I have a word for all our wives out there. Generally, men are conquest-loving creatures in nature, which is why they get so hot when their wives let them take over. If your husband feels like he’s at the top of his game, your surrendering is a power trip and huge turn-on. Wives, please, during foreplay, give the man everything unreservedly. Let your legs be open and hold the headboard or pillows above you so your whole body is exposed to him. Then invite him in. Meet his thrusts halfway by rocking your pelvis upward against his and lifting your legs in the air with your feet spread far apart. This gives him room to manoeuvre his body and alternate between deep thrusting and short pumping. Then drape your legs over his shoulders so he can grab your ankles and position them where he wants them. Tell him you want him to assist you reach orgasm. It means you want him running the show because he has the skills to get you there. Intermittently change to the female domination sex style. With this, the sexual relationship becomes a win-win act. Wives, gone are the days when you are only to be seen and not heard. It is no longer the man’s world; it is our world. He’s been doing all the pouncing and pawing lately. At this point, you take the reins. But a truly titillating takeover has to be authentic and not staged. So, aggressively take over. This is the time. If you don’t, some other lady may and I am sure you wouldn’t want that. All you just need to do is send him an SMS and say, “I’d love to be in charge tonight.” Then gently grab his organ and rub it around your G-spot as if you are so sure of what you are doing. He’ll happily submit to your request. Have a wonderful weekend.

Can this be true?

Hi Funmi, a distant relative of mine who was just in her late 20s was said to have died of high blood pressure during sex. I doubt this finding, knowing that high blood pressure does not occur in people who are of that age group.

Momodu Allan

The truth of the matter is that any health hazard can happen to someone of any age now. This is because the level of health degeneration in the whole world has increased and ironically, people are looking for an inexpensive way to manage their health. Some are not bothered at all. Heart attack can happen at any age, especially during sex. Heart attack has been a major cause of sudden deaths during or after sexual activities. Middle-aged men with heart problems are much more likely to die during sexual intercourse. A 28-year-old woman died after several rounds of sex with a male companion in a hotel and reports had it that the pair were regular guests of the hotel where the incident happened few weeks ago. During investigation, it was discovered that the lady had a heart condition she ignored, and excess alcohol was found in her blood stream. People who are under the influence of alcohol would feel incredible pleasure when having sex, but it could be a sudden death signal. So many people that engage in the use of alcohol have this belief that with excessive use of alcohol, they are likely going to prolong the sexual act. But that can lead to sudden death if such individual has some underlying conditions that are not detected. It is healthier to do away with alcohol.

Sexual orgasm through intercourse or masturbation could increase heart rate and blood pressure. For people who have problems with hypertension or a weak heart, it can trigger sudden death. I also want to chip it in that although variety of techniques and places aimed at addressing the extreme boredom of having sex is okay, certain risky places such as height on a roof, slippery bathroom, tip of a chipped bathtub, and so on, are not only very dangerous but sudden death arenas.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]