Help your child do better at school
Tunde Ajaja

It is the delight of most, if not all, parents to have children who would perform creditably well in their academic works. Even though parenting is somewhat a laborious task, parents who are desirous of raising brilliant children give whatever it takes to see it happen.

But, in spite of all the efforts some parents put in, some children still end up performing below expectation, which most parents tend to find frustrating. Thankfully, there is a way out. Below are some of the steps such parents could take to help their children do better in school.

Help your child to love reading: One activity that has been found to promote intelligence, even from a tender age, is reading. A report by the United States Department of Education identified parents helping their children become readers as the single most important thing they could do to help the child to succeed in school and in life. Reading, according to the report, it increases children’s intelligence quotient, boosts their vocabulary and expands their views. To help their children embrace reading, parents have been advised to show by example by also reading. “Expose them to varieties, read to them, create an atmosphere conducive for reading, let them start early, buy books and reading materials for them. And the books don’t have to be expensive, encourage family members and friends to give them books as birthday gifts and let them know what reading does for them. “When a child gets such help, chances are very good that she will develop the skills she needs to succeed in school and in life,” the report added.

Be a good model: This is not about whether brilliance is hereditary or not; it simply emphasises the need for parents to make sure their children imitate the right habits from them. A consultant paediatrician, Dr. Rotimi Adesanya, said some things parents do at home could influence their children’s success in school. He said, “Children learn by repetition and imitation. They imitate what the people around them do, such as reading, and by that repetition, they learn. That is why their teachers make them to recite and memorise what they were being taught. For example, if the parents take them again on what they have been taught in school, that is repetition and it tends to stay in their memory. They tend to remember.”

Converse with your child regularly: This factor has more than one advantage as it concerns a child’s success in school. Findings have shown that having frequent conversation with a child helps to build intimacy, it gives the child the room or atmosphere to talk about any part of his school work he has difficulty with and it helps to build the child’s language skills. This is even more so as the report showed that children who do not hear people talk tend to have difficulty in reading while children who have not learnt to listen tend to have difficulty in following directions and paying attention in class. The report noted that such conversations could be initiated while taking the child to school, while going to the store, while reading together or even while watching television together. Parents are also advised to be good listeners such that children are assured of audience should they have any question.

Help them with homework: It is important for parents to note that in terms of impact, there is difference between helping children with homework, which is a form of support for them to give their best, and doing the homework for them. Findings have shown that homework provides children the opportunity to learn further what they had been taught in school. Thus, parents are always advised to take the advantage and make sure that any grey area the child carried over from school is addressed. And this is made possible through paying attention. Also, the report noted that parents should set a regular time for homework, which emphasises to the child the importance of education.

It added, “Children need active learning as well as quiet learning such as reading and doing homework. Active learning involves asking and answering questions, solving problems and exploring interests. Active learning also can take place when your child plays sports, spends time with friends, acts in a school play, plays a musical instrument or visits museums and book stores.

“To promote active learning, listen to your child’s ideas and respond to them. Let him jump in with questions and opinions when you read books together. When you encourage this type of give- and -take at home, your child’s participation and interest in school is likely to increase.”

Pay attention to the programmes/games they love: From previous studies, it has been established that the kind of programmes children watch on the television and the kind of games they play impact on their intelligence and attitude. Parents are often advised to help their children to get used to watching educative programmes; watch TV with them when it’s possible, make sure they are not addicted because it could be addictive for children; and answer their questions and teach them what you deem useful for them. Given that children love images, they tend to remember the lessons learnt from the programmes they watch on TV. So also, parents are advised to monitor the games their children fall in love with, because while some help their reasoning and planning abilities, such as chess, some have negative impacts on them.

Reward good performance: There seems to be no consensus as to whether it is good to reward children for their good performance or not, but, the paediatrician said it helps. He said, “In behavioural medicine, it has been found to help. It stimulates their emotion because it makes them feel superior and it boosts their intelligence quotient. Also, it boosts their mood and a happy child tends to do well.” He said further that as against the fears that it could make such a child materialistic, the reward does not have to be money, saying it could be toys or even books they like to read.

Avoid spanking: Some parents feel the solution to their children’s poor performance is to spank them, thinking that would make them to take their studies seriously. But according to Adesanya, it is counterproductive. He explained that even though moderate spanking could help to correct some naughtiness in chidren, it does not achieve same results in their studies. He said, “It’s a two-way thing. Spanking instils fear in children. So, due to the fear that they could be spanked, they tend to make mistakes in what they could have done confidently. It could make them to be emotionally stable or jittery. Moderate spanking may be good for correcting some naughtiness, but it may not make a child to do well in academic work. Such a child may not even have time to think because of the fear of being spanked.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]