Girls, what’s your business with the devil?
Madam Temilolu,

In this 21st century, I see in you an unusual mother of all when all mothers fail in their parental responsibilities to their children! Go on with the work of the kingdom, an icon of holiness. Your reward is in heaven. God bless you!

Evangelist Elijah (Kaduna)

My sister,

God will continue to bless and strengthen your ministry as you decongest the kingdom of the devil for our LORD and KING JESUS CHRIST by continually exposing his antics and tactics. I pray that his love will always uphold you. Stay blessed.

Etim Treasure

Dear President of Girls Club,

As you make more people see the light and walk upright, God will walk with you and work for you in 2018.

Engr. Michael Bode (Abuja)

Dear Aunty Temilolu,

I have a boyfriend who I’ve had sex with a lot of times but ever since I began reading your column in Saturday PUNCH, I’ve made up my mind by God’s grace to stay away from premarital sex, no matter what it will cost me. But I have a challenge, my boyfriend will be going for national service this month and that means I won’t see him for a year. He will want me to visit him and if I do so, he might force me to have sex with him. How do I save this situation ma, and if I decide not to see him for a whole year, won’t it affect my relationship?

22

Dear Evangelist Elijah, Etim Treasure and Engr. Bode,

I’m touched and humbled by your kind words and prayers. I pray God makes us all vessels of holiness and I wish your children all you wish me in Jesus’ mighty name. Amen!

Dear J.

To start with, I thank the Holy Spirit for breathing upon your life through this column and I pray God mercifully beams His light on you further till you are completely lost in HIM! Now, my dear, what’s your business with the devil? Yes! I mean that stupid, bad, devil, who has nothing to offer you but trouble, and whom God has given you dominion over to trample and have permanently under your feet! I must confess it’s so disappointing for you to even think of how your boyfriend feels or what would happen to your relationship if you refuse to sleep with him, if you continue to preserve your beautiful life and your glorious future, if you continue to move closer to your glorification! YOU CAN’T BE SERIOUS! And I challenge that spirit which wants you and everyone reading to backslide with the fire of God, I command it to burn to ashes in Jesus’ name! It really amazes me how a lot of people would rather place over God an ordinary human being, whose existence in one’s life could make one wish one was never born! Is there anyone worth it? Is it possible for anyone to walk the path of righteousness and not be rewarded? You should be more concerned about what God thinks about you and not what any boyfriend or anyone for that matter thinks. What makes you think you even have a future with this boy and how are you so sure you’re the only one he’s been sleeping with? Or did he tell you he’s not touched any girl since you stopped sleeping with each other? Hmmm….girls…girls…girls, MAY SENSE FALL ON YOU! If I were you, I’d forget him! Yes! It may be hard because you love him but you have to make a choice between him and God. He’s been your partner in sin! If you’re destined to be man and wife, both of you would have to realign with God’s divine agenda and he’ll eventually come back to you even if he’s on his way to the end of the world! Fornication is certainly not part of God’s divine agenda and so you would both have to be cleansed by God and passed through some fire of purification if God made you for each other! For now, please let him be the least of your problems! You’re still young; though, this should also be a period when you should be bombarded by suitors. If you’re done with your tertiary education and you’re already thinking of settling down, I’d rather you take a closer walk with God, launch into the supernatural and get rid of the negative power of your ancestry/foundation over your life, so you won’t be yoked to the wrong person in marriage! THIS IS SO IMPORTANT AND YOU HAVE THE POWER TO FIGHT NOW provided you allow the power of God to saturate your life through chastity and holiness! By the time you arrive, I mean by the time God is done with you-YOU WILL BE PERPLEXED BY THE TYPE OF SUITORS THAT’LL BOMBARD YOUR LIFE! I pray you do just as God inspired me to advise you! I love you, my sweeties!

I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO (not Temilolu okeowo girls club or TEMILOLU OKEOWO Girls Club group). Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu.

Scam Alert: Temilolu okeowo girls club page and group as well as Temilolu cares for you are fake Facebook accounts.

Are you still engaging in premarital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a Secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]