30 ways for married couples to enjoy sex in 2018 (I)
As usual, our ardent readers and faithful followers always ask for more. Due to this demand, I would love to teach you the best ways for couples to enjoy sex in 2018.

Many couples, especially those about to wed, often ask me how they can have the best sex ever. They want to know the best encounter that will be registered in their memories for life and most times, I say the best sexual encounter is the one partners enjoy the most.

However, as it is my custom, I researched and from that, I learnt that the best sexual encounters tend to begin with slow and steady movements. Slow soft kisses are the rule of the game. As those kisses get deeper, bodies move closer, minds become more focused and hands start to roam.

One: Even if you have had sex with your spouse hundreds of times, you can still feel the incredible thrill of slowly progressing to a climax. The benefits are not just that you are bound to feel each other’s wonderful sensation for a little longer than you would during a quickie; you are also more likely to feel enhanced sensual thrills. By couples taking their time, they have a chance to pay attention to how they respond to different touches, kisses, positions, thrusts and pleasures.

Two: You both have more opportunities to try new things; make small adjustments and build towards a state of heightened arousal that rocks both of you from head to toe. In addition, during slow sex, you are more likely to look each other in the eye, to communicate what you want, and to tap into more profound emotions. A lengthy sexual encounter is like a well prepared intercontinental, African, Chinese or local meal. It is not just about satisfying your hunger; it is about enjoying every single, delicious moment.

Three: Husband, please don’t squeeze your wife’s breasts like toilet paper or handkerchief. Feel her nipples become erect one at a time, as your fingertips circle each one over her blouse or night dress with the bra off.

Four: A little kiss on her panties can provide a provocative preview of things to come later on. Wife, the aroma of a hygienic, sparkling, fresh, dirt-free, vagina fluid is one of the erotic sexual attractions for many husbands. So, keep your vagina inviting, captivating, appealing, tempting and enticing always. Husbands should treat their wives to the most classic romantic move. You can just carry your woman and take her to bed. Hundred per cent of wives are dying for this move.

Five: The last time many husbands carried their wives was on their wedding day, while they were posing for pictures. You all will agree with me that another sweeping off the feet is long overdue. Wife, a romantic, well-perfumed light wears can inspire a better response from a man than something tight, rough, unattractive, old and smelly.

Six: It is characteristic for African couples to rush through sex, but when a spouse is in the mood to savour sex, start with soft kisses and caresses, letting your lips and hands glide at first, before you slowly add more pressure. These first small moves set precedence for your spouse to follow. They let them know that you are in the mood to let every sensation linger. Starting in first gear does not mean you have to kick off the night with a mouth-to-mouth kiss with un-brushed mouth. Many times, a typical wife’s ‘sex engine’ has ‘knocked’ few months into the marriage and the car is packed on a hill with the neutral gear engaged just because the husband rushes through sex all the time.

Seven: Husband, I want you to know that it is not where you direct your attention to first that sets the mood for leisurely loving, but it is how. You can start caressing below the waist and still inspire a long, romantic sex with soft kisses, light touches and gentle licks. In addition, the more time spent caressing each other with clothes on, the more you will both anticipate the fabulous sensation of skin against skin.

Eight: A ‘rushed-in, rushed-out’ sex is another major stress prone factor; please, slow down and calm down! Slow and steady sex is a healthy, curative, therapeutic and romantic love spa, and it helps to increase the body’s general immune system to combat germs and virus that kill.

Nine: Savour every spot, peel off and do not irritably tear off your wife’s clothing piece by piece. Notice each freckle and curves as it is uncovered, then kiss or stroke it. When either of the spouses is still partially dressed and the other is naked, the result can be extremely racy.

Ten: Keep all or a few pieces of clothing on after stripping your spouse to let them know that, for the moment, their bare erogenous zones are the sole focus of your attention and if you need to pass any constructive positive comment for a healthier better shape, be very careful and cautious about your utterances. The comments and reactions of our spouses go a long way to enhance and boost or inhibit, hinder, hamper and hold back our sexual performances.

Eleven: Pay attention to those areas that are seldom appreciated like a man’s nipples. Nonetheless, the surprise of feeling fingertips, lips or tongue in these sensitive areas will shoot tiny shivers of pleasure up your husband’s spine, as you would be unknowingly igniting fire that cannot be easily tamed. Please be sure to use more pressure in typically delicate places to keep the touch, kiss or lick sensual, passionate, tormenting and erotic.

Twelve: One thing that is crystal clear is that there will be an intense connection. In a long term marriage or relationship, it is very easy to fall into an eye-closed-routine-sex in which first move is made, and then couples stop talking, stop looking into each other eye and just engage in a physical exercise. At this point, sex is about as intimate as a wrestling match and that can be passionless, unsatisfying, boring and unnecessary because the feeling is that of just going through the motions.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]