Build a marriage filled with love, trust and forgiveness
Marriage has a potential to build a beautiful world around two people who can truly appreciate, embrace and discover the prospects that come with this very significant institution. As you focused on evaluating your marriage this New Year; it is very imperative that you both endeavour to build two hearts filled with love, trust and forgiveness, especially if you are both still battling with the hurts and pains of the past year.

We all know that lack of trust and forgiveness are some of the most common marriage killers today. Even when there is love, it can sometimes become impossible to trust and forgive.

LET GO & MOVE ON

One of the most powerful ways to get rid of your anger, bitterness and emotional pains is to learn to trust your spouse again and totally letting go of these past hurts is something that you must do. You may never forget about them, but letting them go from affecting your life, is essential for moving on this New Year.

Perhaps, your partner was unfaithful in the past year and trust has been compromised, although it may seem difficult to start to trust again, but if you desire to enjoy a fruitful and fulfilling relationship, it is not impossible to forgive.

TRUST NEEDS TIME

Unfortunately, many couples today are plagued with the traumas of their pasts, the hurts, the pains, disappointments and failures, so they consequently find it difficult to see the silver linings in their marriages, let alone boast of being fulfilled.

We certainly live in a tough and stressful world and life is full of challenges. Trust can take some time to manifest in a marriage. However, you must continue to support each other during the tough times, rather than allow life’s difficulties to pull you apart. Knowing when and why you should trust your spouse keeps you both safe and well.

FORGIVENESS IS A CHOICE

Perhaps, lack of forgiveness has crippled your affections towards each other and this has made it difficult for you to remain happy in your marriage. On the other hand, you must also remember that a blissful marriage is made possible when many battles are fought and won together. Forgiveness becomes a choice when you both put your feelings into consideration and are both willing to start afresh.

REBUILD YOUR CONFIDENCE

Lack of confidence can often make you see your past overshadow the realities of the present, especially when you are still hurting and lack the confidence to share your feelings with your spouse.

Recognise and embrace the hope and aspirations that come with this very significant institution you have both committed your lives into, and set off on this great journey together, which will not only restore your lives, but also fill the emptiness too.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]