25 rare ways to boost sexual confidence in 2018
Funmi Akingbade

Happy New Year to all our ardent readers, faithful followers and students from all over the globe. Statistics from various feedbacks, questions and enquires over these past years, because of the great impact of this weekly column, have shown that this column has been of a tremendous benefit to countless numbers of married lovers, intending couples and mature singles. It has also shown that Saturday PUNCH has contributed immensely and enormously to the harmony of couple’s relationship worldwide. So, on this note, we are going to be looking at 25 rare ways couples can boost their sexual confidence and harmony in 2018 and beyond. Happy reading!

One: It is now a global fact that couple’s sexuality is simply a part of the fabric of living and if couples are not expressing themselves sexually to the maximum due to lack of confidence, they are not living life to the fullest as married lovers. Sex stimulates spouses physically and mentally; it makes couples healthier. It is a terrific exercise that relieves stress and enhances sleep. It creates a feeling of intimacy; sex is just too good, clean, delicious and fun.

Two: Lack of confidence makes couples with good intention destroy their relationship just because they shy away from exploring all that sex has to offer. Lack of confidence makes couples believe that hot sex is somehow beyond their reach, or is meant for some privileged couples.

Three: I have discovered that a fantastic sex life begins with confidential thoughts and great attitudes towards sex. So therefore, it is not only within the power of spouses to have satisfying hot sex, but their responsibilities. Spouses should not wait for the other partner to turn them on, but rather confidently turn their partners on. The more active a couple is in giving and seeking pleasure, the more they think about sex. And the more a partner thinks about sex, the sexier they feel. And the sexier they feel, the better sex both of them will have and the more their confidence grows.

Four: Let your imagination run wild, savour every moment. Wife, sucking on your husband’s finger or sucking on your finger seductively is a gateway to teasing him before the ‘show’ begins. Finger sucking gives you an exhilarating, elating, exciting and ‘be-in-the-mood’ feeling. Fingers are extremely sensitive and the sensation of having it inside a lover’s mouth delivers a warm, soft thrill. Open mouth kisses are far sexier that close-lipped peck. Let your husband enjoy the feeling of your hot breath and wet tongue against his skin.

Five: Pay attention to those areas that are seldom appreciated. Take your husband’s nipples, each one between your teeth for a gentle bite. Men’s nipples are not as sensitive as a woman’s, but they still get erect when licked, kissed and bitten. The flesh in-between the penis and the scrotum should be licked as if you are licking an ice cream. The surprise of feeling fingertips, lips or tongue on these sensitive parts will shoot tiny shivers of hot pleasure up the man’s spine. A man’s back is very sensitive, it responds well to erotic stimulation. Place lots of lubricant in your palms and rubs the back.

Six: Each time you make love as a couple, let there be an intense connection. For instance, the husband should take control of the action before the time of thrusting by cradling his wife’s head in his hands and whispering sweet words into her ear. This is a sure access into a total rapturous pleasure. Wife, at this stage, you should wrap your arms and legs around your husband’s body and pull him closer to you for deep penetration. Make sure you match the rhythm of each thrusting with a corresponding lifting of your pelvic to his and let out some stimulating sounds, moaning and seductive sexy words. Holding hands during sex is fantastic. Grasping your spouse’s hands is also a romantic way for you to provide added support and balance when he or she is moving up and down on top of you.

Seven: Encourage your wife to straddle you on the edge of the bed and give her neck, breasts and nipples plenty of loving attention while you are intertwined. Encourage your wife to put up a show with her breasts by telling her how striking and sexy they are and how much you love watching them move and dance.

Eight: Husband, one of the greatest sex escapades is to allow your wife to take the lead whenever she is on top of you and follow her lead. When she moves down on you firmly to achieve deeper penetration, thrust up slightly and when she is moving quickly or intermittently, stay still and let her have her way. This instruction is particularly good for husbands with small organs. The wife should also keep her body upright to make sure she is not bending the penis in an uncomfortable manner. Just move up and down, with an occasional side-to-side wiggle. Squatting also allows for a greater range of up and down motion. Try rotating your hips in a small circle or moving very slowly from side to side as you raise and lower yourself unto your husband.

Nine: Climb on your husband as he sits in a chair. Let your legs fall comfortably on either side of his body and grab the back of the chair, using the chair to rock your body back and forth. Sit in such a way to create friction between your clitoris and his abdomen, and simultaneously move his manhood inside your vagina. This is not only erotic, terrific, invigorating, exquisite and fabulous, but also gives room for a full-frontal seduction. This makes you, as the wife, to feel incredibly sexy and this position is fantastic for inducing hot orgasm.

Ten: Your husband’s manhood should always be given undivided attentiveness. Please, as a wife, do not let a day pass without playing with your husband’s manhood unless on doctor’s order. Do not nurse the idea that the penis can wear out as a result of too much sex, blow job or foreplay. In fact, according to researchers, the human penis is stronger, more revitalised, energetic, activated and ecstatic when put to daily use. So, make a ring with your thumb and index finger and slid it up and down over the head and the very top of the shaft; these are the most sensitive parts of the penis. Wrap your entire hand around the penis for a fuller, slightly less intense; yet, equally enjoyable sensation.

Eleven: This twisting motion can be very erotic, revitalising, fulfiling and uninhibitedly passionate that it can lead to premature ejaculation. I always say that what most wives want in bed is a husband who knows how to control the timing of his ejaculation while the penis is on ‘fire and torture’, so that both spouses will get the maximum pleasure from sex. One major reason many wives abandon the penis is because their anticipation for sexual escapade and thrill is frustrated, cut short and curtailed by their husbands’ weak erection and erectile dysfunction. But do you know that this can easily be achieved? It is easy to develop complete self-control so that you can actually choose when to ejaculate during sex, cure your weak erection and regain your sexual self-confidence.

Twelve: Many husbands enjoy having their prostate gland stimulated during sexual encounter? Wife, locate the area of the skin directly behind his testicles and push upward with the pads of your fingers or your tongue. In fact, tugging gently on the skin can release some extra ‘oomph’, ‘hmmm’, ‘yes’, ‘thank you’, with eyes closed. Stimulate the penis from top to bottom with both fists descending one after the other, so that instead of an up-and-down motion, there is a continual downward stroke. This is enjoyably glorious. Create a ring around the base of the penis with the thumb and index finger of one hand. Hold it there, squeezing gently, while stroking the rest of the penis with the other hand. This helps to engorge the penis and make ejaculation a full calming, peaceful, reassuring force.

Thirteen: Getting hot and yummy? Well, that is what sex should be between husband and wife. And I would suggest here that wives should never allow tradition and culture to place an embargo on their strife to openly voice out their sexual desire. In lieu of this, over the years, many wives have lost their sexual confidence and libido. What presents itself in a typical marriage is a bed where the woman is only to be seen and not heard. Yet, each time I consult with many husbands, the complaint I receive is that their wives are extremely inactive when it comes to sex, and the cause of this is lack of confidence and grit.

Fourteen: A mind filled with confidence helps turn a timid wife to a sex expert. A confident spirit helps put the hands to action and the hands though, they cannot speak verbally, they can speak volumes by their action.

Fifteen: Wife, from the moment your husband starts kissing you, you should move for your husband’s hips, caressing his arms, back, thighs or slide your finger around the nape of his neck. From caressing to grabbing or tender scratching, there are countless ways that you can increase the pleasure by getting your hands involved because those hands are exceptionally gifted.

Sixteen: In addition to using your hands to enhance every aspect of doing the deed, bringing your husband to orgasm via manual stimulation is a highly underrated experience. Manual stimulation allows a wife to closely watch her husband’s reactions and this gives the wife a clue as to the kind of stimulation he needs to climax during thrusting in and out. Don’t be afraid to go beyond using your fingertips. The penis shaft is usually more responsive to an encompassing full-hand hold.

Seventeen: When you want to get your fingers on your husband’s penis, rub them through his pants or boxer or work your hands down the front of his jeans, boxers or trousers. Wrap your fingers around his manhood and begin to cuddle, do it softly so that you are not pulling on the skin.

Eighteen: Gently squeeze his penis or even wag it from side to side. You should never be overly rough and don’t rub it too quickly or too tightly without adequate lubrication. Many couples make use of Vaseline to prevent dryness of the vagina; please, there are better lubricants than Vaseline, which can cause infection and create bad odour for many women who have narrow vaginal pathway. For couples who love public display of affection, the hand job is one of the few sexual acts a wife can engage in. A little under-the-table groping can be a lot of fun, as long as privacy is ensured. This is a great way to get hot before getting home. And if both of you are home, to make this work better, cultivate the habit of sitting close to one another. By this, the wife can easily play with the penis or the scrotum of her husband without being noticed.

Nineteen: The point I am trying to explain here is that if couples do not develop enough confident to do some silly things with each other’s sex organs, both of them will soon get tired of sex.

Twenty: You can bring your man to the brink of paradise and keep him dangling there in heavenly suspense until he begs for mercy by giving him series of tantalising attention you would want him to give you. So start by caressing his manhood carefully, not absentmindedly. Pay attention to how he is responding and give him more of what makes him breathe faster.

Twenty-one: If he is circumcised, use a slow, light, up-and-down stroke when his penis is not lubricated. You can also just trail your fingers up the length of the shaft, and over and around the head. Since most men get erection first thing in the mornings, you can set your alarm 15 minutes before you have to be up, strip down, take his hands in yours, and gently guide them over your body. Make them linger on your nipples and your clitoris. It is a big way to wake him up. Many husbands love women who crave pleasure and take matters into their own hands, literally.

Twenty-two: Fine-tune his touch during foreplay, guide his hand to your clitoris and show him how to touch you with the rhythm and firmness you like.

Twenty-three: Try to press and release his fingertips against your clitoris several times, then use his finger to make small circles in either direction to hit all of your nerves. For a twist that will turn you on, lie facing each other, take his penis, and use the tip of it to demonstrate how you like your clitoris to be touched.

Twenty-four: Manipulate his moves. During sex, it is easy to let clitoral action fall by the wayside since the majority of positions fail to hit that hot spot. Moreover, lack of contact is the main reason why so many wives have trouble reaching orgasm. To get clitoral stimulation during sex, hop on top, and have him stroke your clitoris (the thumb works well here). In the missionary position, grab his buttocks, and guide him to thrust slowly and deeply so your clitoris rubs against his pelvic bone. During doggie-style, he can reach around with one hand and firmly press two fingers on your clitoris for added sensation while he thrusts to help take you over the edge.

Twenty-five: Another way of doing this is to focus on the backside of your wife during foreplay; I am not referring to her buttocks. I mean, the backside of her body. Most husbands usually focus on the front side of their wives body, which means they are neglecting a lot of nerve endings. So, husband, try standing behind your wife and start kissing the nape of her neck, then slowly move down her spine. This also puts you in the perfect position to reach around and cup her breasts or stimulate her manually.

Questions and answers

Which is the best under the circumstances?

Funmi, do you know which positions give the couples most pleasure if the husband wants to really penetrate so deeply but has a small penis? It seems we have made do with all I can offer. Although, my wife is not speaking out, I can read her mind. She is just tagging along with me; she is not satisfied.

O’Neil Bukunmi

It seems that a man is programmed subconsciously such that for them to be satisfied sexually, deep penetration is necessary.

But many researchers have discovered that most women enjoy shallow penetration, close to the clitoris, as this area holds the majority of the sensitive nerve endings for sexual pleasure.

On the other hand, for purposes of achieving bigger penis size, there are certain sex positions that can maximize pleasure for small penises by hitting the right spot inside the woman’s vagina.

Keep in mind that the most sensitive area of the female vagina is a region close to the clitoris and the area is known as the G-Spot. You have to particularly, work and focus on this area when giving your wife an unforgettable sexual experience.

One of the most popular sex positions for small penises is the “Doggie Style” or entry from behind. Many wives truly enjoy this position, especially if you can reach and stimulate her clit while rocking. When having sex, it is not just penetration that matters, but foreplay plays a crucial role towards satisfying your partner.

Obviously, men with medium-sized and smaller penises should focus on foreplay. Foreplay alone can bring an intense and unforgettable arousal for the woman.

Through foreplay especially when done appropriately, a man can deliver a woman to a complete and full arousal. Even with a small penis, she will beg you for that most awaited penetration.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]