Would you agree if your spouse insists on bathing together?
Afeez Hanafi and Tomi Mark-Adewunmi

This week, Adam and Eve asks some Nigerians whether they will comply if their spouses insist that they have a bath together

Ayodeji Ajibade

I will always oblige her

I don’t see any big deal in being in the bathroom together with my wife at the same time. Being husband and wife comes with certain responsibilities and expectations aside from finances. As a married couple, we have both agreed to share all that we own. So it is not in any way shameful for me to let my spouse see my body in its natural state. In fact, it is fun for me to strip in my wife’s presence.

I believe that having a bath with my spouse brings us closer. The time spent together in the bathroom can also be used to discuss some private issues that may not have been dealt with in the living room. It can help partners discover each other on an emotionally positive level. In short, I will always oblige anytime my spouse wishes to step into the bathroom together with me.

Abiodun Anibaba

It brings us closer to each other

Yes, I will. It is a symbol of love. Bathing is a private act; it is a sign of a strong and comfortable relationship. When you bath together with your partner, it shows total intimacy, it is something you would not do with someone you are not close to. It gives you the chance to build trust in your relationship and be comfortable with your spouse. Bathing with your spouse is fun too; it gives you the opportunity to let yourself loose with your spouse. When couples bath together, they engage in so many naughty plays. Bathing with your husband most times leads to romance and sex, you can drive him crazy while bathing and before you know it the real work has started. Above all, it brings you closer and increases intimacy.

Sowole Olamide

Yes, it’s a time of bonding

Yes. Baths have been known to have a calming, distressing effect on the body and the mind. Who is better to share this time with than one’s spouse? In this stressful modern-day, a shared bath is a shared relaxation. In this time and age, with the tight schedule of modern life and the chase for money, time for romance can be lost. And matters of the heart can be forgotten. The bath times can form a time of bonding, a time of romance, seduction and rediscovering the many pleasures of my spouse’s body. The bath time is a time to de-stress, a time for grooming and it’s also charged with sexual energy. It’s basically a potential for relationship growth not to be wasted.

Aderonke Idowu

I will do it to please my husband

I can bath together with my husband; there is nothing bad or wrong in bathing with your spouse. The Bible says in Genesis Chapter 2 verse 25: “…and they were both naked, the man and his wife, and they were not ashamed.” To me, bathing together is one of the best ways to strengthen your marriage. You will love your spouse more and do many things together. To other women out there, if bathing with your spouse makes him happy, go ahead and do it. A good woman does what pleases her husband; so far it is not against the will of God.

John Timothy

It depends on where we live

Yes, I will if we live together in, say, a flat where we have exclusive access to the bathroom. But in a situation whereby my wife and I live in a house where we share the bathroom with our neighbours, I won’t agree to the idea of bathing together. For instance, in a face-me-I-face-you house, I can’t bath with her. She will also understand the situation we find ourselves and I don’t think she would take offence if I disagree with her on that. Some couples may not care about such condition, but I will consider it and will politely turn down my wife’s request.

Mary Morounkola

My husband can’t insist we bath together

It is not possible. He cannot insist. At the same time, there is nothing bad in bathing together; it improves intimacy in marriage. I can do it at times but not always. We both have our views and I believe there are times we would need our privacy. Bathing together as I said is not bad; there is nothing to hide anymore but it is not something we can do all the time. Privacy is key at the same time, understanding each other is necessary. He should understand the fact that I am a woman and most times, I will need my space. No doubt, the love is there but the idea of bathing together regularly is not just possible.

Lugard Ahonle

It’s part of my life

I have been doing it. The Bible says that the husband and wife are one. The moment you have agreed that you are one, you do everything spiritually, materially and physically together. There is no issue in that. Occasionally, when I come back from work, we bath together. But if I am going to work very early in the morning and she is still asleep, I bath alone. When I am at home, we bath together. It is part of life.

Remilekun Aiyedogbon

I have the right to make a choice

I will agree; there is nothing to hide and I don’t see a big deal in it. We have seen each other’s nakedness. Everyone doesn’t have the same perspective of things; some people may say it is outdated, but I will agree. At the same time, he cannot mandate me. I am allowed to make my choice. I believe my view should be respected. He is not supposed to insist; it is a matter of choice. Our marriage is based on love and respect, he is not supposed to impose a rule on me or make anything mandatory. I am against insisting.

Sani Yusuf

I will if I am not in a hurry

Inasmuch as the practice does not contravene the teachings of my religion, I will unconditionally oblige her to bath with me. As a devoted Muslim, it is incumbent on me to adhere strictly to the teachings and practices of Islam as contained in the Holy Qur’an and Hadith. More so, as my spouse remains my personal property, I can do anything within my ability to satisfy her. Socially, if I can have canal knowledge of my wife, I see no reason why I should not have a bath with her. Besides, my wife’s private parts also belong to me as her husband. What is worth doing at all is worth doing well. However, if I have a busy schedule, she will bear with me if I refuse to bath with her especially in the morning when I am in a hurry.

Omobola Bamidele-Oladoye

Bathing together has many benefits

Yes, I will agree. Intimacy between couples can be enhanced through several means which includes; eating together, being together indoors and outdoors holding hands, as well as bathing together, among others. When couples bath together, they tend to be more romantic than those who do not. Also, sex can be enjoyed differently in the bathroom, especially when the woman can lead her man on. Beyond the sexual benefits of bathing together, it also improves the personal hygiene of the couple as the husband can help in washing the wife’s back and other areas where her hands cannot reach and the wife can do the same.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]