Should a boss employ the opposite sex as PA?
Saturday Punch speaks with some notable Nigerians on whether a male boss should employ only a male PA or a female boss should also do the same. Below are their responses

Exposure to temptation is sin

Sheikh Abdul-Rahman Ahmad

It depends on what the personal assistant does. If it involves her travelling with her principal, keeping late nights and being too close or too personal to her boss, it is deferrable because the possibility for adultery is high. In Islam, adultery is not in its actual act but anything that could lead to it; anything that will expose one to temptation. People say sin is in the mind but exposure to temptation itself is forbidden. It doesn’t matter if the act was eventually done or not.

To expose oneself to temptation is a sin. It is only to that extent that I will not employ a female as a personal secretary because of the exposure. Islam does not allow women to do such things for any man except her husband.

It’s wrong placing gender before job

Victoria Ibezim-Ohaeri

Placing gender before employment will mean victimisation. It means a person will not get a job because of his or her gender irrespective of the person’s competence.

I can work with anyone either a male or a female, I don’t mind. I see sex as something that doesn’t just happen. It is something that happens when both parties are involved. It won’t happen in any of their matrimonial homes; they will both agree to meet somewhere and do whatever they want. They are all intentional facts that is why I don’t subscribe to the fact that a person tempted a person. It’s not like a cup that slips from a person’s hand. Anyone that is competent can work with me. I can never say I won’t employ a person because of gender. It is about a person’s self-discipline or control.

I’ll not want to be in position of weakness

Dr Kehinde Ololade

My personal assistant should be my gender for ease of interaction and absence of vulnerability. I am human and I will not want to be in a position of weakness or be exposed.

I can’t hire opposite sex as PA

Aisha Yesufu

Nigerians should allow people to express their individuality without making an issue out of it. If a person is not comfortable hiring a personal secretary of the opposite sex, it is okay. Personally, I can’t hire somebody of the opposite sex because this is someone who will be with me all the time. For example, I wear hijab, I won’t be able to remove it if it’s a man working with me.

I will prefer a female that whether we are in the house, office or travelling, I can remove the hijab and feel comfortable while at work. Likewise, for those who say they prefer females as their personal secretary, it is really fine. I don’t know why people take these things out of proportion. People should be allowed to do what they are comfortable with. People should do what works for them.

There are choices that personally I do not like but the fact that people are doing them doesn’t mean they are wrong for doing it. For instance, when hiring a cook, the first thing that comes to my mind is the gender; I prefer to hire a male as a cook. Maybe I feel I am a woman and I don’t like cooking, why should I hire a woman as a cook? I once had a female cook but she didn’t use to cook for my husband. I still had to do the cooking myself. We are in a world where people are not allowed to express their personal opinion. Our choices are our choices, so no one should impose their opinions on others.

I’ll hire PA based on competence

Prof Toba Elegbeleye

The gender of the person does not matter. What we are interested in is competence. If we should go by that rules of gender and temptations that could come in, we would say that female shouldn’t allow male doctors to attend to them or one wouldn’t hire a female lawyer as a man because she is a woman. It all sums up to what’s in one’s mind. Personally, I see hiring anyone from the aspect of efficiency and competence.

I can hire a man as PA

Binta Ayo-Mogaji

I can hire the opposite sex as PA as long as he knows his job and he’s qualified. Once the person knows what he is doing, I see no reason why such a person should not get the job. Being close to one’s PA depends on the person involved. It depends on how one relates with one’s PA. If one relates as strictly official, then it’s official. One will determine if one wants to make room for any closeness. As long as he does his job diligently and he doesn’t pass his boundaries, then it’s fine.

I can’t hire a lady as PA

Pastor Bisi Adewale

No, I can’t hire a woman as my personal assistant or secretary because it is not the best. You spend a lot of time with your secretary and you do many things together. This might lead to other forms of intimacy so it is best to hire a man as my personal secretary.

Self-control is vital

Prof Remi Sonaiya

My personal assistant when I was contesting the presidency in 2015 elections was a young man. In general, there is more problem when a man occupies a higher position and the woman is the subordinate than the other way round. We need to establish that the temptation is greater if the man is the boss and the woman is the secretary. But there is no too much of an issue if it’s the other way round.

Also, things can be misconstrued if a man becomes familiar with a lady; people can misunderstand things. In a corporate setting, I don’t think the issue of gender is usually considered. What I think is important is self-control. Let people respect the distance that should exist between people and not get overly familiar with one another. If people have self-control, people will be able to manage their emotions without taking advantage of others.

A person’s productivity comes first

Ali Baba

It depends on the job and its requirement. Is it one that will make the person keep late nights and travel all the time? Is it a job that requires physical strength? If it’s just about mental ability, a woman can do it but if it requires physical ability, then it’s most suitable for a man.

For example, when it is a job that has to do with a political person especially during elections, it is a job that will take a lot of energy and some women will not be able to take it. But there are women who can take in so much; like work late at night.

Also, a female PA would do better in a society where one only needs to forward one’s materials from wherever one is. Personally, I think it is the productivity of the person that matters.

Whosoever is competent gets the job

Yinka Davies

I don’t see any reason why this should be a debate. Whosoever is able to do the job effectively gets the job whether the person is a male or female. I will hire a person based on competence and efficiency. Gender isn’t a factor I will put into consideration for such.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]