How to still achieve your 2019 goals this year
Ihuoma Chiedozie

How would it feel if you could end this year on a high note, having met all your set goals? That would be a very wonderful feeling for anyone – but, with just six months left in the year, many people will be thinking that their 2019 targets have already been missed. This is especially so if you are lagging behind the set period during which you were expecting to reach some of the milestones on the road towards meeting your goals.

So, when you find yourself in this position, what do you do? Would you give up? Does it mean you should stop having goals? No, it does not! You still have six months left in the year to get your acts together – there are still six months to accomplish your 2019 goals. But you need to know what to do in order to make sure that you still finish 2019 strong.

Regardless of whether you began the year with strongly-worded, elaborately spelt out goals, a one-word resolution or a theme, the good news is that there is still time.

The hard part is that you have a choice to make.

You can either decide to write off the next few months and wait until January 1, 2020, to start over, telling yourself that next year will be different, or you can accept that you still have time to create something remarkable in 2019.

But if you decide to go for it, you must start now. The clock is ticking and before you know it, you will find yourself preoccupied with the annual year-end rush leading into the Christmas and New Year holidays.

Here are some steps you can take towards meeting your set targets within the remaining part of the year.

Critical self assessment

A psychologist, Prof Oni Fagboungbe, in a chat with Saturday PUNCH, explained that ‘critical self assessment ‘ is very important in your quest to meet set goals. According to him, this will require identifying your faults, and making corrections.

“There are so many factors that could make one to derail in meeting up with set targets for the year and that is why one should have the courage to do critical self analysis , especially when you notice that there is a deviation or a gap. If you really want to meet your goals within a set period, you have to be prepared to identify the blockages – those issues that are blocking the realisation of the set goals, and you must be ready to make corrections. Where you need to change your ways, you change, where you need to increase effort or energy, you increase, and so on and so forth,” he said.

Learn from the past (Then let it go)

Take some time to honestly evaluate how you have done with goals in the past to try and identify any patterns that could need your attention. For example, do you usually finish what you start, or have a tendency to get bored easily and quit?

The point here is not to beat yourself up; it’s to identify and remove potential stumbling blocks on the path to achieving your goal(s).

Understand why people fail to meet goals

About 92 per cent of people that set New Year’s goals never actually achieve them, according to research by the University of Scranton. Experts believe that failure to plan properly, as well as an inability to fully contextualise the goal, are among the reasons for the high rate of failure in meeting set targets.

Here are some of the reasons why people fail to meet goals or why New Year resolutions fail –

– You’re treating a marathon like a sprint: Slow and steady habit change might not be sexy, but it’s a lot more effective than the “I want it all and I want it now!” mentality. Small changes stick better because they aren’t intimidating.

– You put the cart before the horse: “Supplementing” a crappy diet is stupid, so don’t even think about it. Focus on the actions that produce an overwhelming amount of results. If it’s not important, don’t worry about it.

– You don’t believe in yourself: A failure to act can cripple you before you leave the starting line. If you’ve tried (and failed) to set a New Year’s resolution (or several) in the past, I know it might be hard to believe in yourself. Doubt is a nagging voice in your head that will resist personal growth. The only way to defeat doubt is to believe in yourself. Who cares if you’ve failed a time or two? Try again.

– Too much thinking, not enough doing: The best self-help book in the world can’t save you if you fail to take action. Yes, seek inspiration and knowledge, but only as much as you can realistically apply to your life.

– You’re in too much of a hurry: If it was quick-and-easy, everybody would do it, so it’s in your best interest to exercise your patience muscles.

– You don’t enjoy the process: Is it any wonder people struggle with their weight when they see eating as a chore and exercise as a dreadful bore? The best fitness plan is one that causes the least interruption to your daily life. The goal isn’t to add stress to your life, but rather to remove it. So make getting in shape fun, however, you’ve got to do it. That could be participating in a sport you love, exercising with a good friend or two or joining a group exercise class so you can meet new people.

– You’re trying too hard: You don’t track your progress. Keeping a written record of your training progress will help you sustain an “I can do this” attitude. All you need is a notebook and a pen. For every workout, record what exercises you do, the number of repetitions performed, and how much weight you used if applicable. Your goal? Do better next time.

– You have no social support: It can be hard to stay motivated when you feel alone. The good news is that you’re not alone. If you know a co-worker who shares your goal, try to coordinate your lunchtime and go out together so you’ll be more likely to make positive decisions. Join a support group of like-minded folks on Facebook, LinkedIn, or elsewhere on the Internet.

– You know your ‘what’ but not your ‘why’: You know what you want but not why you want it. Yes: you want to get fit, lose weight, or be healthy, for instance, but why is your goal important to you? For example, do you want to lose fat so you’ll feel more confident and sexy in your body than ever before or what? Whether you’re getting in shape because you want to live longer, be a good example, boost your energy and feel confident. The more specific you can make your goal, the more vivid it will be in your imagination, the more encouraged you’ll be, and the more likely it is to succeed.

Setting a goal is really about changing yourself for the long-term. Goals aren’t short-term, quick-fix things – they are fixed and immovable destinations that show the world who you want to become or what you want to achieve.

Even though people state that they want to achieve a certain goal, in truth, they are really not committed to it. Because of this lack of commitment, they don’t give the act of goal attainment their full effort.

Create a road map

Any significant goal is really just a sequence of steps that can be used to create a road map that represents how to get from where you are to where you want to be. Start with the end in mind and try to visualise each step of the way working backwards to where you are now. This will help you establish a realistic time frame, and give you a much better sense of what actually needs to be done.

Be focused

When you are working with a limited time frame, you need to get highly focused. Let go of trying to do it all and aim for one or two meaningful goals that you can feel really proud about accomplishing.

Some people have too many goals and not enough focus. It is like they are standing in front of a dartboard with three targets in mind. Hitting just one target is difficult enough; hitting three targets simultaneously with one dart is impossible. Therefore, determine the one goal you are focused on and move forward with that one goal only.

Eliminate other goals that are secondary. This is not to say that you should never have more than one goal. Rather, you need to realise that you have only so much time and energy. Therefore, choose the goal that will give you the highest return on effort and focus on that one goal first. Once complete, you can then focus on other goals in sequence.

Pursue small wins

Breaking goals down into manageable steps is standard advice when you are striving to accomplish pretty much anything. But this alone won’t keep you motivated and moving forward. Rather than just one more thing to check off your list, try treating each step you complete on the path to your ultimate goal as a small win to build on. Small wins work by building momentum, energy, and resources, and foster learning that will enhance your ability to take on bigger, more ambitious goals later.

Clear the way

A common mistake many people make is to put a lot of time and effort into creating a great plan to achieve a goal, but never clear the way to make room for the actions that need to be taken. If your goal is to begin meditating for half an hour after the first rising, but you haven’t adjusted your usual busy morning routine to set that time aside, then it is going to be tough to stick to your plan.

Do yourself a favour and review your commitments and adjust priorities as necessary to make room to work on your goal.

Focus on building momentum

Momentum is one of those rare, self-perpetuating marvels that we don’t talk about nearly enough. A good example of momentum is the domino effect. Tip over the first domino and not only do subsequent pieces topple, but the effect also grows and picks up speed along the way.

Consistency is the best way to build momentum. The more you do a thing the easier it becomes and the less time and effort it requires. Self motivation

Determination – another key factor in goal actualisation, goes with self motivation .

Stressing the need for self motivation in goal actualisation, Fagboungbe, said, “Apart from critical self assessment , self motivation is also very important. If you don’t motivate yourself, you will not be able to do much. You should also have determination. If you have been wasting time on things that are distracting you from your goals, you should drop them. Meeting your targets requires constant self review or evaluation.”

Sources: emotionallyresilientliving.com, cherishingflo.com, reliableplant.com, inc.com and lifehack.org

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]