Can you donate a kidney to your ex after divorce?
Afeez Hanafi and Tomi Mark-Adewunmi

Adam and Eve samples the opinions of some Nigerians on whether they can emulate a Briton who donated a kidney to her ex five years after divorce

I can’t return to where I bade good night – Kola Abiola

I doubt if I will be able to do such. I mean, we have divorced already, which implies an end to anything between us, except, of course, if we have kids together. You will simply find yourself doing things you ought not to be doing. It is an indirect way of rekindling what you both once shared. To me, since you are divorced, it should stay that way. Going through such an act is a sign of commitment, or better still, a connection is still present, which might lead to doing the unwanted. A Yoruba adage says, ‘anywhere you’ve already said

I’ll if we’ve kids together – Chidinma Onwupeluonye

I am not sure I can do it because giving someone my kidney takes some level of commitment, trust and love. If he is my ex, there is a reason he is my ex, probably the relationship did not work out or we fell out of love for each other. The only way I will do it is if we have another kind of emotional attachment to each other, maybe a kid, meaning he isn’t just my ex, he is also the father of my kid. But if not, I can’t.

She can ask her new man not me – Onakunle Olayemi

Divorce is not an option for me because it is not acceptable in my faith. However, assuming such a scenario happened, I can never donate my kidney to my ex. Personally, I feel an ex does not belong to the clique that I can sacrifice such an important organ or even a thing for. Perhaps she’s even remarried or in another relationship, why should I? Even if she hasn’t remarried or not in a new relationship, she can take the kidney, survive and still go with another man. Then that will be a double loss!

I‘ll do it for the sake of humanity – Esther Ogwu

Yes, I will because of the past relationship we had together and for the sake of humanity. Regardless of what it is that led to the divorce, it is also important to save a life. If I have the power to save a life, why not exercise it? Life is too precious to not be taken seriously. We as individuals need to make use of our heart more and we need to realise that we were meant to help each other. We must realise the essence of being human. So, in conclusion, I will simply because it’s necessary to give back to people be it a friend or foe. There is no need to be hateful or spiteful because harbouring hatred in one’s heart will block blessings.

It’s an insensible thing to do – Adebayo Obatungashe

The word of God admonishes us to love our neighbours the way we love ourselves. However, we must not allow the love to blindfold us to the extent of endangering ourselves. I recognise the fact that my ex-wife is the mother of my children, the relationship between the two of us which culminated to marriage and childbearing cannot, in any way, be negotiated for anything.

Notwithstanding this, it’s unimaginable and insensible for me to trade off my kidney for whatsoever reason. God created me with kidneys for my use alone. God knows the usefulness and roles the two kidneys will perform in my body system, hence he made it two for me. It will, therefore, be against the will of God to remove one in the name of showing love to a fellow human being. I cannot donate my kidney to anybody for $10m. I have my life to live and other people have theirs to live too.

I’ll consider what we once shared – Blessing Acha

I would do it because I know to err is human, to forgive is divine. If he dies, it won’t be a good thing. I would rather do what is expected of me and let the guilty rub on him like mud when he finds out I donated my kidney to him. I would look at what we once shared, if we had kids together, I would think of my children because he is still their father. This is the more reason I would donate it to him.

I can do it for anyone – Amodu Shakiru

Yes, I can donate my kidney to not just my ex but anyone to save their life. I’m a lifesaver as my profession dictates and the onus is on me whenever I’m called upon. All I need is just a prayer. If according to God’s fate , I’m to lose my life, please bless with your protecting hands, my children and wife.

There’s no reason to do so – Queeneth Ijezie

I don’t subscribe to divorce. I would try every appropriate means to make my marriage work. If it eventually ends in divorce, I see no reason why I would donate my kidney to him.

Her family members can be donors not me – Akeem Alao

While I can go the extra mile to help a dear person in dire need, it can never be done to the detriment of my life. I strongly believe that donating my kidney, even to a family member; can pose dangers to my health later in the future.

I can’t donate my kidney to my ex. Apart from the fact that the kidney is useful to me because I have no idea of what will happen in future, what if my wife is in need of a kidney? To me, those who claim that they can do that out of love and compassion are simply endangering their lives. My ex is gone, and my concentration is on my wife. Her husband can do that for her. If she has yet remarried, her family members are potential donors. Not me.

I can’t risk my life for an ex – Temiloluwa Olatunji

No, I can’t. In the first place, divorce happens as a result of irreconcilable differences. Therefore, donating a kidney is too much for me to do for someone I don’t even have anything to do with anymore. I can’t risk my life.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]