15 ways to get kids busy this holiday
Jesusegun Alagbe

Holiday is perhaps the time of the year when most parents have the opportunity to spend quality time with their children. It is also a period that many children find exciting and look forward to, being the end of several weeks of academic activities.

However, while some children find the holiday period fun and thrilling, some find it boring – and according to child development experts, how the children spend their holiday depends on the kind of environment their parents create for them.

For some parents, they use the holiday to engage their children in another series of academic activities by hiring home tutors for them.

While this may not be entirely bad, experts have advised parents and guardians to use holidays to engage their children in other activities apart from academics.

For parents and guardians having challenges in knowing what to engage their children in, the following 15 tips can be helpful in creating an exciting holiday for kids. Of course, kids don’t have to do everything on the list.

Organise a treasure hunt: You can organise a treasure hunt around your home or garden (if you have) with clues for the children to find. And don’t forget to reward them with gifts when they find the treasure.

You can organise a treasure hunt around your home or garden (if you have) with clues for the children to find. And don’t forget to reward them with gifts when they find the treasure. Hold an Olympics-like game: This requires little equipment such as ‘sack race’ or a ‘tug of war’. Remember all those games you used to play when you were a kid? You can bring the memories back and let your children also have fun playing those games. The children will be happy while you too would recall old memories.

This requires little equipment such as ‘sack race’ or a ‘tug of war’. Remember all those games you used to play when you were a kid? You can bring the memories back and let your children also have fun playing those games. The children will be happy while you too would recall old memories. Camping: If you have a tent and live in a secure environment, you can arrange a camping trip in your garden with the children for one night. During the period, they can use the opportunity to engage in paintings which can be bought in shops. Let the kids paint and hang up their creations in their rooms.

If you have a tent and live in a secure environment, you can arrange a camping trip in your garden with the children for one night. During the period, they can use the opportunity to engage in paintings which can be bought in shops. Let the kids paint and hang up their creations in their rooms. Do a toy cleanup and visit an orphanage: Research has shown that the fewer toys you have in your home, the more creative your children will be, as they’ll learn to make do with less and engage properly with the toys they own. And there’s no better time than the holidays to do a good cleanup. Let your children help you sort the toys they are happy to part with, then take them along to an orphanage or other non-profit organisation and encourage them to give them away to those who really need them. Children are never too young to learn the act of kindness.

Research has shown that the fewer toys you have in your home, the more creative your children will be, as they’ll learn to make do with less and engage properly with the toys they own. And there’s no better time than the holidays to do a good cleanup. Let your children help you sort the toys they are happy to part with, then take them along to an orphanage or other non-profit organisation and encourage them to give them away to those who really need them. Children are never too young to learn the act of kindness. Volunteer: You can also find a practical way for your children to serve and contribute to the community. Go with them to clean the streets or deliver meals to the homeless, the sick in the hospital or the elderly ones.

You can also find a practical way for your children to serve and contribute to the community. Go with them to clean the streets or deliver meals to the homeless, the sick in the hospital or the elderly ones. Improve their physical health: This is very key. While schools are in session, your children probably have to wake up early to prepare for school. Now that they are on holiday, let them sleep well, exercise regularly and eating healthily.

This is very key. While schools are in session, your children probably have to wake up early to prepare for school. Now that they are on holiday, let them sleep well, exercise regularly and eating healthily. Learn a new skill: Your children can use the holiday to learn skills like coding, public speaking, cooking, drawing, car wash, photography and how to repair broken items. You may never know how this would prepare them for the future.

Your children can use the holiday to learn skills like coding, public speaking, cooking, drawing, car wash, photography and how to repair broken items. You may never know how this would prepare them for the future. Visit museums: The arts culture is perhaps low in Nigeria, but that’s probably because many adults themselves don’t go to places where arts are displayed. Use the holiday to take your children to the museum. It will make them more knowledgeable and they’d also leave the place inspired. Most museums don’t charge high fees for children.

The arts culture is perhaps low in Nigeria, but that’s probably because many adults themselves don’t go to places where arts are displayed. Use the holiday to take your children to the museum. It will make them more knowledgeable and they’d also leave the place inspired. Most museums don’t charge high fees for children. Learn a new language: Children have the ability to learn new skills and languages faster than adults. Find places around you where languages are taught or hire a language tutor for them. Within two weeks, you might be surprised they are able to construct a sentence in a new language.

Children have the ability to learn new skills and languages faster than adults. Find places around you where languages are taught or hire a language tutor for them. Within two weeks, you might be surprised they are able to construct a sentence in a new language. Visit the library together: Too much screen time can be bad for kids, especially during the holidays where the temptation to sit on the tablet or watch too much TV is always there. Why not visit a library and let the kids’ imaginations run wild with a host of new books? Reading has a multitude of benefits, including an increase in communication skills as well as mental sharpness and concentration.

Too much screen time can be bad for kids, especially during the holidays where the temptation to sit on the tablet or watch too much TV is always there. Why not visit a library and let the kids’ imaginations run wild with a host of new books? Reading has a multitude of benefits, including an increase in communication skills as well as mental sharpness and concentration. Make them watch educational YouTube videos: Your children can watch crash courses on YouTube, where they can learn a series of subjects such as physics, history, chemistry, astronomy and biology.

Your children can watch crash courses on YouTube, where they can learn a series of subjects such as physics, history, chemistry, astronomy and biology. Create a family photo album: Most of our pictures are digital and simply sit on our cellphones or cameras without us ever displaying them at home. Why not make a point of having some family photos printed and let your children create their very own family album? Let them decorate the pages, while you share stories about each family member. This seemingly simple activity will enhance your children’s memory, as well as encourage their creativity as they decorate each page.

Most of our pictures are digital and simply sit on our cellphones or cameras without us ever displaying them at home. Why not make a point of having some family photos printed and let your children create their very own family album? Let them decorate the pages, while you share stories about each family member. This seemingly simple activity will enhance your children’s memory, as well as encourage their creativity as they decorate each page. Go for a train ride: Although the railway system in Nigeria is not top-notch and not available in every part of the country, if you are lucky to catch a ride, bring on your kids and let them have fun.

Although the railway system in Nigeria is not top-notch and not available in every part of the country, if you are lucky to catch a ride, bring on your kids and let them have fun. Play a musical instrument: Some children pick up interest in music while growing up. Some eventually grow up to be professional singers, while others remain music lovers. Studies have shown that music plays a remarkable role in the development of the human brain. Let your children learn how to play a musical instrument.

Some children pick up interest in music while growing up. Some eventually grow up to be professional singers, while others remain music lovers. Studies have shown that music plays a remarkable role in the development of the human brain. Let your children learn how to play a musical instrument. Sports: Some of the famous and highest-earning athletes today began at a young age. Even if your kids don’t turn out to be professional athletes, they can engage in sports. Some of the benefits of doing sports include improvement in general health, mood, focus, goal setting and leadership qualities. If your children love sports, why not let them dedicate quality time to them during the holiday?

Commenting on holiday use for kids, a child development expert, Mrs Olufunmilola Adebayo, said the period was a time parents should plan for their children.

The Ibadan, Oyo State-based early years expert cautioned against allowing the children to be indoors and staying glued to only the TV throughout the holiday, stating that it could affect their mental development.

Adebayo said, “Ideally, now is not the time for parents to plan the holiday for their children. It should be planned as the children start each term. If parents don’t plan it, they may be confused as to what to do for the kids during the holiday.

“There are many activities children can do, but definitely not hiring another home tutor for them. The holiday should not be a time to hire a mathematics or science teacher for the children. They should be made to have fun while being educated.

“Having fun doesn’t always mean pleasure. Take the kids to the museum, library or parks. They will have fun and be educated at the same time when they embark on such trips.

“When a child stays at home for long watching only TV and playing games, their mind will not be developed. I advise parents to do what’s best for their kids.”

Another child development expert, Mrs Ebi Damingo, advised parents to expose their children to life skills such as selling and public speaking during the holiday.

She said, “As a mother, I teach my children how to sell items and make money during holidays. But I’m not saying they should hawk because that is child labour.

“You can set up a mini shop for them to sell fruits or other food items. From just selling, they can learn the art of negotiation, public speaking and concentration.”

Sources: daniel-wong.com, familylives.org.uk, livingandloving.co.za, dano.com.ng

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]