Should rapists get death penalty?
Following the bill before lawmakers proposing the death penalty for rapists, Adam and Eve goes to town seeking views of some Nigerians on the issue. Their responses are below:

There’s need for increased advocacy – Seyi Okunloye

I don’t know if the death penalty will reduce the crime; what about castration? Still, that does not suffice. What do we do to such cases branded as a family matter or hidden in VIP households?

I would say that we should put more energy into advocacy. The same way there are campaigns on corruption, we should have more campaigns on rape. We should reorientate prospective or suffering victims and warn perpetrators or intending ones of the dire consequences and punishments for rape.

Rapists should be secluded from people – Daniel Temidayo

Rapist should not get a death penalty but secluded from the people. They should only be released if proven to have had the proper psychiatric treatment and deemed harmless to people.

Some rapists were victims themselves when young and currently have psychological difficulties relating with people while some are just beasts. But both groups need to be taken away for as long as possible.

Rapists deserve severe punishment – Mistura Quadri

Some people have violated others many times and they walk freely on the streets.

I believe that if the laws are strong and enforced, people will have more respect for others. Rapist should be punished severely.

I am of the opinion that the greatest punishment anyone can get is the death penalty. Even the fear of knowing you are going to die soon for an offence you committed is a good punishment.

They should be rehabilitated not killed – Kayode Oniwinde

I am not in support of death sentence for rapists because if you look at it holistically, it’s a level of disorder in such persons. This has nothing to do with age, gender, religion or status. A rapist needs help through rehabilitation for us to have a healthier and better society.

Rapists deserve castration – Opeyemi Famuyiro

Rape is becoming a nagging norm in our society. I don’t in any way support any rapist to go unpunished but I am against a death penalty for rapists. I think castration and long years in prison with hard labour will be a better option than death. Living with regrets, and the pain of castration is equivalent to a slow torturous death, better than straight-up death that’s way too easy.

I don’t support the death sentence – Adeyemo Adedoyin

No doubt, rape is a despicable act, but I don’t want to subscribe to the death penalty for rapists. I think people deserve a second chance in life. I’m not making excuses for the rapists but sometimes, people come out of bad habits and become better if they get help. However, I think punishment can be made more severe like spending more years in jail. My belief is that if the prevailing punishment for the offence is strictly implemented, it’s enough deterrent.

But as it’s with our system, there are always loose ends that lawyers can exploit and that is why offenders escape justice. When people escape justice when they commit a crime, it emboldens others. But if they know they can’t get out of it, I’m sure it would deter others.

They should clean public toilets in chains – Phina Akakpo

This rape thing is somehow. Regardless, I think victims deserve justice.

However, I don’t think the death penalty is the solution. Community service is what they should do. There are many dirty places in the country. Making them clean dirty communities is good punishment to me. They should be monitored by security agents while they carry out the exercise of cleaning public toilets and roads in chains like the slaves we see in the slave trade movies.

They need psychiatrist’s help – Seun Sonuga

Death penalty won’t stop rape. I don’t think anybody who is mentally stable will rape anyone. If it is about seduction or whatever, then nobody should find those innocent girls appealing. Instead of being killed, I think they should be examined by a psychiatrist.

Rehabilitation before sentencing – Aina Damilola

I feel instead of them being sentenced to death they should be taken to rehabilitation centres to get treatments. They should go through different sessions on how to stop the urge to sexually abuse others. Although they would still face the judgement of the law too, I think they need to be rehabilitated first.

Death penalty for rapists is best – Olajide Ademola

Whoever commits rape deserves death. But if a man rapes his wife, he should get a five-year jail term. However, I support the death penalty for rapists because if they know that the penalty for rape is death, they will stop the act. Men with uncontrolled sexual urge should patronise brothels.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]