Have A fabulous Christmas with low budget
Tunde Ajaja

It is two days to Christmas, and as expected, the excitement and razzmatazz have rented the air already in almost all parts of the world. In the same breath, the compliment, ‘Merry Christmas’ has been on nearly all lips as the D-Day draws near.

But beyond the exchange of pleasantries and good wishes, the season is also characterised by merrymaking, eating different kinds of food, going out to have fun, visiting friends, neighbours and family members.

The economic recession in the country might have subsided, but for the obvious reasons, it’s not so much a good time for most families, given the high cost of goods, accompanied with high inflation rate (15.9 per cent ) in which case huge money chase fewer goods.

But, in spite of the economic hardship people are going through, side by side the compelling need to have a fabulous or exciting Christmas, experts say it is possible to enjoy the season with a low budget. While rich people could go overboard, with the quantum of resources at their disposal, those on the other side of the spectrum could still enjoy the season, and the following are tips on how to make that happen:

Understand the essence of Christmas: From the first glance, it is easy to dismiss this point, as one would presume that the essence of Christmas is common knowledge, known even to people of other faith. But according to a sociologist, Dr. Franca Attoh, if people genuinely understand the essence of Christmas, the pressure they subject themselves to would not come up in the first place. She said people who compare themselves with others or lose sleep over what to eat, drink or wear during this Yuletide still do not understand the logic of what Christmas is all about. She said, “It’s a concept that has been completely bastardised, especially by adults. Christmas is a spiritual thing and it is a time we are trying to re-enact the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ. For me, Christmas should be a time of spiritual stocktaking and if you have the means, you put a smile on the faces of the poor. If you don’t have the means, thank God for giving you life. It’s a time to show goodwill to fellow human beings. Thus, when you have this understanding of what it should entail, you won’t have any need to borrow or put yourself under pressure. And that understanding is very important.

Experiment with what you have: One does not need to go hungry to imbibe the teachings of Christmas; rather does anyone need to take a loan to enjoy the season. Attoh, who is a senior lecturer at the University of Lagos, said parents should be creative with what they had. According to her, it is not a must to prepare all kinds of rice – jollof , fried, coconut, etc – as is the custom, seemingly, but that people could eat eba and soup, even if they have to prepare it in a different way. She said, “You can celebrate Christmas with less than N10, 000. For a woman who is creative, you can do a lot with that. It’s not about killing a goat, because by the time you kill it, you won’t even be able to eat it, so if you have limited resources, be creative with what you have. People can still eat the food they eat every day and still have a fabulous Christmas. It‘s about joy, peace and showing love to others.”

Have good family time: In the counsel of the sociologist, Christmas could be fun, devoid of financial stress, when families stay together and do things together. She said, “You can put your house in a joyful mood without spending so much. As a young mother, I made pastry. I bought the flour and I involved my children in the process. We made plenty pastry and popcorn and we even shared with children in the neighbourhood. While making those pastries, we talked about many things, they were learning the process, they asked questions and we all had fun. The fact that we made the pastry and I involved them in the process would linger in their memory. Also, if the woman knows how to bake, it’s a time the family can come together and bake a cake. The bonding is a good way to celebrate and stay together as a family. Most times, some families don’t get to eat together, but the mere fact that all the members of the family are coming together to eat is a thing of joy.” She also said there was nothing wrong with people travelling to see their loved ones this season, but cautioned that “it is not a must but it is good if they can afford it because it’s an opportunity for people to see those they have not seen in a long time.”

Go out and have fun if you can: One good way to enjoy Christmas might be to go out as a family. Attoh said even though grown-up children tend to decline to go on such a trip, but younger children, like pre-teens, tend to look forward to going to amusement parks, beaches and other places of interest. She added, “These are things parents might not have had time to do earlier in the year. Those are the things that are permanently etched on the minds of those children, such that when they grow up, they can reminisce with nostalgia. So, if you are able to, why not. It’s an opportunity and you don’t need to kill yourself to do that. If people look around, there are so many places they could go to.” She cautioned that as part of ways to save cost, parents could pack their food items from home, and while being there, they could take photographs and everybody would be in a happy mood. She added, “The food you go with could even be the type you eat every Sunday, but on this particular day, you are doing it in a different environment and that would be memorable. Let’s keep educating people so they could realise the real reason for Christmas, which is showing love, sharing with others and imbibing the virtues of the one being celebrated, and not just about eating and drinking.”

Remember the day after Christmas: It is noteworthy that Christmas is worth all the funfair and excitement, especially the personality of the saviour being celebrated, but the caution has always been that people should do all things in moderation. Attoh and some other experts who spoke on the matter said parents should remember that days after Christmas, their children would resume school and they would need to pay school fees, thus it is necessary for them to save some money so they don’t run into financial troubles afterwards. “They should not forget that January is a few days from now when most parents would pay school fees,” Attoh said. Even though children desire special gifts this season, parents do not have to subject themselves to untold hardship to make that happen. She added, “Even if it’s that Christmas cap that they sell for N500 that you buy for them, they would appreciate it. More importantly, if you tell them how much you love them and you care for them, that is the memory children take with them for a long time. I don’t remember the cost of the things my parents bought for me when I was young but I remember the coming together and the people who came to our house, which is part of showing love to others.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]