Man assaults wife for alleged extramarital affair, bags six-week jail
During an argument over his wife’s extramarital affair, the man rained blows on his spouse and threatened to kill her with a knife if she left the apartment.

Fearing for her safety, she had to send a text message to her friend, pleading for help.

For his actions, 23-year-old Aloysius Tang Bo Hui was jailed six weeks on Tuesday (today) after he pleaded guilty to one charge of voluntarily causing hurt to his wife, 20-year-old Winnie Lim Hui Er, on April 26 this year at their Toa Payoh flat.

One count of criminal intimidation was taken into consideration for Tang’s sentencing.

At around 10.30pm on the day of the incident, the couple got into a heated argument over Lim’s extramarital affair in the flat’s bedroom.

During the fight, Tang punched Lim on the back of her head and jaw. When Lim tried to avoid the assault by climbing onto the bed, Tang punched her buttocks, abdominal area and left arm.

When Lim tried to leave the house, Tang slammed the main door shut and and dragged Lim away from it. With a 35cm-long knife in hand, Tang told Lim in Mandarin, “You don’t try me, I will really kill you.”

Lim later sent a text message to her friend for help. Later, when Tang was no longer next to her, Lim dashed out of the apartment where her friends were waiting for her.

Her friends had already called the police by that time.

Lim visited Tan Tock Seng Hospital where she was found with tenderness in her abdomen, scalp, jaw, fingers and bruising over her knees, shin, buttocks and arms. She was given two days of medical leave.

The prosecution asked for at least six weeks’ jail for Tang, saying that the injuries were extensive and that Lim had been threatened with a weapon, which was a serious offence.

In mitigation, Tang’s lawyer Ranadhir Gupta said that the injuries were not serious and asked for a “short custodial” sentence.

For voluntarily causing hurt, Tang could have been jailed up to two years and/or fined up to $5,000.

(Yahoo News Singapore)