I was never mentally unfaithful to you, man caught in adultery tells wife
“I was never mentally unfaithful to my wife. Indeed, I told every girl that I was married.”

That was the apologetic statement of a man who was divorced by his angry wife.

The wife, a dentist, ditched her husband after she went on Instagram and saw something very familiar on another woman’s account.

The wife, Yulia Agranovych, saw the picture with the caption ‘City Lights’ on an account belonging to Vlada Abramovich.

The problem was that it was actually the view from Yulia’s bedroom. Naturally, her interest was piqued; so she continued looking through the account, discovering pictures of her husband, Nazar Grynko.

Yulia, from St Petersburg, Russia, said: “I wasn’t searching for anything, it was a normal morning.

“Like any other person in the 21st century, I began my day browsing through my Instagram timeline, and suddenly, I saw this very photograph.

“It turned out that this woman and I have a large number of the same subscribers.

“Having visited her account, I found many other interesting photographs, including those of my husband’s.”

Vlada wrote under the picture, ‘Beautiful view from my husband’s bedroom.’

Yulia then confronted her husband, Nazar, who denied adultery, telling Yulia that he had invited friends round for drinks before going to the cinema while she was away. He told her that the woman was, in fact, his friend’s girlfriend.

Yulia told him: “When the guests came, they would have headed to the kitchen to drink tea – not to the bedroom.”

The girlfriend, Vlada, locked her account after the confrontation, but she later admitted on another social media account to sleeping with Yulia’s husband.

Asked if she had qualms about having sex with a married man, she was unapologetic, saying: “She is his wife, what’s the problem? Is he just a vegetable without free will? Don’t make me laugh.”

Vlada said her critics were “living in the 18th century,” adding: “If I want to have sex, I’ll have it.”

Yulia’s husband later acknowledged having had several lovers when they were apart but claimed “he was never mentally unfaithful to me – and told every girl he was married,” she claimed.

Yulia said her research unearthed other women who had been with her husband.

“The other girls were much more pleasant, one was even crying on the phone to me, saying she had no idea he was married. So, he was successful in his sorcery,” Yulia said.

She said that for her, “it will be divorce. I hope to do it quickly… such people never change.

“If he finds a woman who is ready to be with him, and to accept it, let them be happy together.

“I’m so glad I got to know about it now and not when I became pregnant, for example, because we were planning to have a family.

“Or when I was 40 and we have three kids.”

She posted: “Thank you, Vlada Abramovich – you are an experienced woman who taught me a good lesson.’

(Metro)