Sexual intercourse is a spiritual union!
Temilolu Okeowo

Dear Sister-in-Christ,

Your proclamation of God’s ministry marvels me. Without mincing words, you are signed, stamped and confirmed a great ambassador of God’s evangelistic ministry/humanity of the 21st century. God is your strength and He will continually enlarge your coast in Jesus name. Amen!

Modupe Olutayo

Dear Eva-the-Law,

I salute a great apostle and evangelist in you. May God reward your efforts in correcting the ills in the lives of girls and decorate your destiny lavishly to distinguish you and your ministry with excellent global distinction.

Olusola-Opo Adejumo

Dear Aunty Temi,

I came across one of your articles where you said copulating could be a form of marriage. I’d like you to please explain more on what you meant by that because I have been hearing such but never got any explanation. I’m a 17-year-old virgin boy and I’m determined to remain that way till marriage. However, I’m under a lot of pressure. As they say, knowledge is light and ignorance is darkness. Please shed light on it. Thank you.

S.S.

Dear Mrs. Olutayo and Mr. Adejumo,

Many thanks for your kind words. It’s a privilege to be used by God. “Eva-the-Law” (meaning evangelist and lawyer) sure cracked me up! Every Christian ought to contribute their quota to the kingdom of God. I pray your children do greater exploits in Jesus mighty name!

Dear S.S.,

I love your focus, curiosity and meticulousness! May you stay on the right track and reap its benefits in Jesus mighty name!

Too many all over the world are married to people God didn’t join them with. They are married outside God’s plan for them. So many missed their divine spouses because of pre-marital sex. This is a very serious matter! According to the scriptures, marriage is fundamentally a matter of a man and a woman becoming one flesh. “Therefore, a man leaves his father and his mother and cleaves to his wife and they become one flesh.” Genesis 2:24

Any guy could say sleeping with a lady doesn’t mean he’s married to her because he’s not fulfilled two of the conditions in the above scripture which are forsaking the relationship he has with his parents and entering into a marriage covenant. However, the third condition which is the consummation (sexual union), is the most dangerous! It is tantamount to a fusion of souls!

This is consistent with Paul’s warning in 1 Corinthians 6:16

“Do you not know that he who joins himself to a prostitute becomes one body with her? For, as it is written, “The two shall become one flesh.”

Sexual intercourse bonds two souls and multiple spirits together. Sexual intercourse is spiritual intercourse, spiritual exchange! When you engage in sexual intercourse, you make a huge commitment which also carries weight in the supernatural realm. Whoever you sleep with has a very strong hold on your spirit because you deposited something into each other! Your spirit is the bedrock of your destiny! If the average youth would understand the spiritual contract they’re getting into with sexual intercourse, they won’t be too quick to date. Sadly, the devil has presented sex so loosely to the world as an indoor game. What cruelty! How sad!

My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian sisters,

A lot of you have got into so much trouble and I’m praying they would never rear their ugly heads again. But they usually do! Pre-marital sex is more than a sin! A lot of you have slept with persons who have deposited so much evil as well as ill-luck in your destiny! A lot of you have had your virtues- your wealth and what would make you shine in life- diabolically transferred through sex. A lot of you have been completely emptied and that’s why you find yourself in cyclic problems, stagnated, aimlessly roaming about the world not knowing what to do. A lot of you have been thrown into a spiritual wilderness out of your parents’ permissiveness!!! A lot of you are going to mis-marry and get into serious trouble if care isn’t taken because you couldn’t control your flesh; because you fell in love stupidly and too soon; because you wanted to form ‘big’ girl! Aww…what a pity!

Girls…girls…girls, if you don’t want trouble, serious trouble that could divert the course of your destiny – if you’ve been engaging in sex, go and cling to God, tell Him to have mercy on you and break your soul away from UNGODLY SOUL-TIES! I mean the souls fused into yours through sex! THIS IS A VERY SERIOUS MATTER! You need to be thoroughly cleansed; you need deliverance from every stranger in your destiny for you to align with God’s divine agenda! If you are still a virgin, I congratulate you! Please keep keeping yourself and doing things God’s way! However, if you’ve not had intercourse but regularly engage in other sexual acts, I’m sorry for you. The devil is waiting to have the last laugh. I pray you refrain! May God bless you all!

I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO (not Temilolu okeowo girls club or TEMILOLU OKEOWO Girls Club group). Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu.

Scam Alert: Temilolu okeowo girls club page and group as well as Temilolu cares for you are fake facebook accounts.

Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a Secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open to all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]