What advice would you give your best friend who’s about to marry your ex?
Since human attraction is more complex than what people ever think of it, it is possible to find oneself in a situation whereby one’s best friend develops a liking for one’s ex. This is why SATURDAY PUNCH asked some Nigerians the kind of advice they would give their best friends who are about to marry their ex

I’d tell my friend everything about my ex – Olanisebe Damilola

I would be happy if they loved each other, but as a friend, I would tell my friend all the things I know about the guy, which might help her in the relationship. As a concerned person, I wouldn’t let my friend down, but at the same time, I would be careful in giving her the advice so as not to appear as being jealous.

Being an ex doesn’t mean he’s a bad person – Ruth Olorunisola

Well, just because he’s my ex does not make him a bad person. Some men have good heart but fate might not have allowed them to marry the ladies they were dating. This scenario could have happened to my ex and me. Hence, I would encourage my friend to proceed with the relationship, especially if the guy was good to me. Even if he wasn’t good and the relationship was an unpleasant one, that wouldn’t necessarily mean he was a bad person. Therefore, I wouldn’t discourage my friend — perhaps the feeling between her and my ex might be stronger than the one which once existed between us. There’s no need for ill feeling.

My ex is a great guy, I’d wish my friend good luck – Abikoye Gift

I would congratulate my friend on her new relationship, but I would advise her to always keep her mouth shut in order not to get the beating of her life. I would also advise her not to open up on all life secrets to the guy because he would use them against her. Finally, my own ex is a great guy, so I would wish my friend good luck.

I wouldn’t discourage my friend – Omojolade Ogunmade

My advice to my friend would be to pray about the issue before she goes ahead to marry my ex. It might be that my ex and I weren’t destined to marry each other and who knows whether my best friend could be his destined wife. That’s why no matter what had happened between us, I wouldn’t discourage my friend in marrying him. She should just pray about it and have a clear mind before going ahead.

If he had cheated on me, I’d caution my friend – Olufunke Bankole-Ajayi

The advice I would give my best friend depends on what exactly caused the breakup between my ex and me. The fact that he is an “ex” means that he is my past and I shouldn’t dwell on it. After all, not every relationship results in marriage. If the cause of our breakup wasn’t that he cheated on me, sincerely I would wish them both good luck. But if he cheated on me, I would caution my friend to look before she leaps.

I’d ask if he could survive emotional torture – Adekunle Oladayo

I would tell my friend everything I knew about my ex and perhaps let him also know if we had gone deep in the relationship before we quit. I would ask him very well if he wouldn’t be emotionally tortured in the future anytime he remembers that I once dated his wife. If he could cope, I would wish him all the best.

I wouldn’t be a stumbling block – Tunde Animashaun

I would let my friend understand all the reasons why the relationship I had with my ex didn’t work. I would tell him all the issues I had with her and allow him to decide for himself. The truth is, if they really love themselves, I can’t be a stumbling block. I would pray for my friend and wish him the best.

If I left my ex due to bad attitude, I’d warn my friend – Umoren Kufre

It depends on what made our relationship went sour. If my ex had bad attitudes such as anger, unnecessary jealousy and gossiping, I might tell my friend to look for another lady to marry. I don’t think it’s right to let my friend enter a trap I once escaped from. Well, except if I learnt that she had changed. If she had changed after our relationship, I might only tell my friend to be watchful.

My friend should be prayerful and cautious – Stephen Dennis

He should be prayerful and cautious. Sometimes though, breaking up a relationship doesn’t necessarily mean that either party is a bad person. It could be that both were not destined to be together. So, I wouldn’t say because I couldn’t marry my ex, my friend also cannot marry her. I have to let him try his luck. Who knows, it could work out for both of them.

I wouldn’t bad-mouth my ex – Titus Johnson

I wouldn’t bad-mouth my ex for any reason, especially if our breakup was as a result of mutual agreement. I don’t believe every relationship has to lead to marriage. Be that as it may, if there are issues I had with my ex, I would discuss with my best friend before if he takes his final decision whether to marry her or not.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]