Can a relationship return to normal if a partner cheated?
It’s no news that people cheat in relationships, an incident that has accounted for the break-up of many marriages. Meanwhile, there are always different excuses people give when caught cheating in a relationship, with the hope that their partners will be convinced enough to forgive them. SATURDAY PUNCH, therefore, asked some Nigerians whether a relationship could go back to normal if one of the partners cheated

Trust would be lost

Bolaji Oluseyi

I don’t think the relationship can remain the same again. Once a partner cheats, there will be distrust. For instance, if my partner cheated, I would not be able to trust her totally again even if I still loved her. If I travelled somewhere alone, I might start imagining what she might be doing while I’m not around. Infidelity is a serious issue. The best thing to do to keep a relationship glowing is to be faithful to each other.

It can’t be normal again

Ojo Bukky

I don’t believe that kind of relationship can be back to normal. If there was an act of infidelity in a marriage, distrust would be created immediately, making it impossible to trust each other fully again. That’s why it’s always better to be disciplined as a couple. Whatever you are looking for outside is right beside you.

No, it’s like scar on the heart

Amadi Glory

From my point of view, the relationship can’t be normal again. This is because distrust will be created. Sure, they might not separate due to the infidelity, but deep down in their hearts, they would know things are not normal again. I am sure the one who was cheated on would always remember the incident. It’s like a scar on the heart.

Deep love would be gone

Iyiola Lowo

It only takes God’s grace for the relationship to work again. First, the cheating partner would not always feel comfortable afterwards, while the partner cheated upon would not find it easy to love deeply again. That’s why I said it is only by God’s grace that the couple can sustain their relationship.

It’d be hard to restore the relationship

Amax Sarah

It will be hard for such a relationship to be fully restored. Infidelity is hurtful than one could imagine. Let me also say that the maturity of the partner who was cheated on also matters. But even at that, the only thing a mature person would probably do is that they would not separate or file for divorce. They would feel disturbed in their heart anytime they remember the incident.

Love, trust would be absent afterwards

Don Roberts

If one of the partners cheated, my take is that the partner cheated upon would find it very difficult to find love again in their spouse. Apart from love that would be gone, trust would also go. So, what’s left when love and trust are absent in a relationship? Nothing. To me, the relationship is dead.

There’d be hatred in the long run

Stella Akpan

Thinking about the act of infidelity can create hypertension. So, the best thing is to forget about the issue or go for the alternative. That’s why it’s advisable to leave a relationship or partner one can’t cope with again due to an act of infidelity. Let’s be sincere, the relationship can never be normal again. Even if you were a pastor or imam, you’d always think about the incident once in a while, which might fuel hatred in the relationship.

Discipline is key in marriage

Layo Olukokun

I always say that apart from love, discipline is very important in marriage. After wedding, many temptations would arise and if any of the partners falls into one, it would create problems for the marriage. It can result to the crash of the marriage, no matter how long it’s been built. In essence, that relationship can’t be fully restored again.

The relationship can’t remain same again

Igarando Sweeny

Undoubtedly, the partner who was cheated on would not forget about the incident even if they forgave their cheating spouse. We have heard of cases of infidelity resulting to murder of the cheating spouse.

Things can still work out

Sanusi Ganiu

Depending on the maturity of the partner who was cheated upon, I believe the relationship could still work again. Of course, it might not be easy to get it back on track soon, but in the long run, if there is forgiveness, a broken heart can still be restored.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]