21 reasons you must get rid of your sexual challenges now (2)
Twelve … Public shame: When you cannot satisfy your woman in bed, she is likely to share this with her friends and even with her pastor or counsellor and gradually, what should be a secret affair becomes an open secret. What I am saying is that the cost to a man who cannot satisfy his wife sexually is enormous. It is the quickest way for a man to lose confidence in himself. Moreover, once the confidence is gone, everything is affected: he cannot think well; he cannot speak well; he gets easily tired and irritated. In addition, once he cannot put in his best, it means he cannot put money on the table and ultimately if care is not taken, he may give up on himself. In most cases where he is married, the marriage may pack up. However, you do not have to put up with that shame a day longer. For the permanent solution to the embarrassment of premature ejaculation, give me a call or book an appointment with me. Take action, delay may be too costly!

Thirteen … Besides the above mentioned facts, according to series of studies carried out in developed countries, approximately 20 to 30 per cent of the male population may have symptoms at any time. Between 30 and 40 per cent of men are believed to suffer from the frustrating condition called premature or rapid ejaculation. The good news is that it can be successfully treated.

Fourteen … Such studies have also shown that this condition largely remains untreated. This is said to be due to a number of factors including hesitancy of both husband and wife to approach and discuss the issue; a lack of awareness of treatment options. However, what many men with this condition do not know is that with the right approach, they can easily change the response of their bodies to high arousal. You can learn how to thrust your penis into a warm or wet vagina for as long as you want before you ejaculate. Then, when you want to ejaculate, you simply step up the pace and intensify your vaginal thrusting so that you go “over the edge” when it suits you. The other thing that men with these conditions need to know is that it is not a thing of shame. This is so because it is a common ailment among men and it is solvable.

Fifteen … At the 2006 Congress of the European Society for Sexual Medicine, an American research paper reported the average lasting time of men with premature ejaculation was 1.8 minutes. Men without this condition, which we may sometimes ignorantly refer to as ‘normal,’ last an average of 7.3 minutes. In their survey of several thousand males, approximately 10 per cent of them said that they often or sometimes had this trouble. They found that it is more common in younger married men – which is not surprising, as there is a distinct tendency for ejaculation to improve with age. Men generally get better control as they grow older.

Sixteen … However, a 2004 survey in Europe showed that middle-aged spouses still had this problem. However, there were males who claimed to have premature ejaculation, yet who could last up to 25 minutes. This clearly shows people have wildly differing ideas about what is normal. From medical experience, there are plenty of couples who would regard intercourse that lasts under 20 minutes as less than satisfactory, and who would feel that any ejaculation in less than 10 minutes or so is decidedly premature. As a working definition, if either you or your partner feels that orgasm is happening too soon, then there probably is some degree of premature ejaculation, according to these groups of experts.

Seventeen … While most of what is known about premature ejaculation is myth rooted in ignorance and inability to seek for help, the frustration and fear that many men experience because of premature ejaculation are real. In most cases, premature ejaculation does matter, because it makes people unhappy and frustrated. In addition, in severe cases it threatens or even ruins marriages. Sometimes, the condition is so bad that the man ejaculates even before getting into the vagina. This can be devastating for a man’s self-confidence. Besides, it can be hugely frustrating and annoying for his spouse – especially, if she is young and desirous of the unique pleasure that only intercourse can give.

Eighteen … For many years, sex experts believed that early conditioning caused premature ejaculation. The idea behind this is that men’s early sexual experiences were usually rushed (and perhaps, furtive) and had to be quick to avoid detection. The idea is that this conditions him to climax as quickly as possible. However, studies and surveys have shown that many men with premature ejaculation did not rush early sexual experiences-though others say they did.

Nineteen … In all, there is some level of agreement that anxiety is responsible for most cases of premature ejaculation. For example, when a man is put (or puts himself under) pressure to perform, then he becomes nervous and when he becomes nervous, the chances that he would come before he or his partner desires increases. Furthermore, each time he fails to prolong ejaculation, an ‘anxious’ lover gets deeper into the realm of self-doubt and continues to fail. Anxiety over other issues besides sex can also lead to premature ejaculation. Such issues could include, but are not limited, to financial matters, slight depression, lack of confidence, unrealistic sexual expectations (like when a man wants to replicate what he sees in pornographic movies), lack of good communication, conflict, guilt and others. Anxiety and the pressure to perform are the reasons some men take alcohol before sex. Nevertheless, this is a risk practice whose long-term risks outweigh the short-term benefits.

Twenty … An interesting article on the British Broadcasting Corporation’s Sex and Sexual Health website says some men’s premature ejaculation problem results from their inability to recognise what therapists call the “point of inevitability”. This is a sensation that occurs just a few moments before ejaculation. Men who do not suffer from PE are able to recognise this sensation and either stop or change stimulation until the urgency has subsided. Most commonly, men who suffer from PE would have had it throughout their sexual life and would not ever have noticed this “point of inevitability”. There are a number of reasons why this might have happened. It may be that initially, sex was always rushed or was associated with the feeling of guilt or anxiety. The BBC article also argued, and I agree, that some men “become quick ejaculators because of their partners’ pressure to “get it over and done with.” Whatever the original cause, the body gets used to responding quickly and rapid ejaculation becomes the norm’. Overexcitement is another factor that can be responsible for premature ejaculation. When a man is overly excited before sex, his sex organ could go on auto-drive, making the ‘decision’ to ejaculate on its own.

Twenty-one … Besides what experts say, although there are no conclusive proofs yet, a number of biological factors can also induce premature ejaculation. These include abnormal hormone levels, abnormal levels of brain chemicals called neurotransmitters, abnormal reflex activity of the ejaculatory system, some typhoid problems, inflammation, urinary tract or prostate infection. Others include multiple sclerosis, extreme sensitivity of the penis, injury to the nerves, and other neurological problems.

Some scientists and researchers have also made claims that premature ejaculation can be inherited. The duo of Mr. David Delvin, a British general practitioner and a psychotherapist, Christine Webber, who conducted a survey on the matter, discovered this in some cases. “Some men seem to be highly triggered right from the start of their sex lives, and we have encountered instances where their fathers were much the same. Therefore, we feel that the tendency to reach orgasm quickly may often be inherited rather than learned,” they wrote in an article, Premature ejaculation, on Tiscali.co.uk.

What all this information has shown is that premature ejaculation could be the result of both psychological and biological factors. Nevertheless, whatever the cause may be, I believe there are solutions.

Until next time, keep your sex passion aflame while I remain your devoted and loyal bedroom instructor. And please keep a date with us.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]