A sudden ‘loss’ can tear any good marriage apart
Elizabeth Badejo

[email protected]

www.stringmynaijawedding.com …08097360766

To love and behold, for better or for worse, in sickness and in health till death do us part.” This statement certainly sounds familiar to many couples. As good as this may sound, it can also become unrealistic in the real sense when the unexpected happens to even the happiest couple in their marriage.

The death of a child either young or old can be so devastating so much that it can tear the lives of a couple apart and you begin to wonder what happened to the love they once shared. The pain can be so excruciating irrespective of the age or circumstances surrounding the death and if they are not able to stand together and strengthen their commitment at this time; it can put a huge strain on their marriage as a whole.

Loss is painful

Perhaps you and your spouse have recently lost a beloved child and life has suddenly come to a halt for you and the rest of the family; or maybe you lost your child a while ago and your spouse has become inconsolable ever since. It can certainly become extremely difficult to come to terms with a sudden loss most especially that of your own child whom you had greater expectations for.

GUILTY FEELINGS

The death of your child may be challenging for the stability of your marriage for many reasons; perhaps you think that the death could have been avoided and you both continue to live in guilt, feeling that you didn’t do enough to prevent the situation. You might also have developed a strong bond with your child and it’s undoubtedly very painful when you suddenly have to bring a closure to your connection and affection.

Everyone grieves differently

Maybe your loss happened a long time ago and your spouse has not been able to come to terms with it even though you expect her to understand the fact that her behaviour is not going to bring the child back. You have to be sensitive and remember that you are two different people with different feelings and everyone grieves differently too; your love and understanding is all your spouse needs especially at this time.

Grief is not a man

Men are unreasonably unqualified to express their grief in many societies; they are not expected to show their emotions when in distress, they say that ‘Big boys don’t cry’. Perhaps you expected your husband to behave like a man and stay strong but unfortunately this loss has brought out the vulnerable side of him, making him tearful or angry at times.

Grief is not a man, your husband’s reaction may have brought out his weaknesses because he is distraught about the loss. This is his own way of processing his grief and the best you can do at this time is to show empathy and not focus on his strength.

NOTES

You may not be able to explain the pains and agony of losing a child when you are wrapped up in grief, but when you both open your minds and hearts to each other as a couple, you will both learn a valuable lesson in the end.

Do not grieve alone, lean on each other and express your feelings to one another as you need each other’s support and understanding now more than ever.

GOOD LUCK

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]