ICYMI: 14 ways to experience transforming sex while couples are aging (1)
As couples age, the hope for a good sex life seems elusive and unattainable. In today’s’ article, we are going to be considering ways old and aged couples can experience the best of sex. Pleasurable, erotic unimaginable sex don’t have to change as couple’s bodies naturally transform. There is no doubt that challenges often arise for older couples when having sex and one of the many reasons for such challenges is related to age and degeneration of the body organs, the general body system, medical problems, unavoidable surgeries and changes in body appearance.

And many couples would rather take care of their health alone rather than taking care of both their health and at the same time spicing up their sex lives.

I always tell older couples that it is never too late to regain the vigour and excitement of past sexual pleasure, while making sure their general health is in shape. If older couples would just learn how to overcome worrisome health obstacles and still look out for a gratifying and enjoyable sex life no matter their age, they will live longer and still be energetic. So, enjoy as you read ways to achieve this.

One … As women age, they may notice sexual changes as well. An older woman especially experiences many unwanted sexual changes. Her appearance may change with the arrival of wrinkles or gray hair, making her feel less attractive as she ages. That can impact her sexual desire. In addition, physical changes can occur. As women age, hormones decrease, causing the vaginal wall to become thinner, drier and more irritated. This can make sex unpleasantly painful. Friction from intercourse may cause micro-tears in the vaginal wall, which can cause pain and bleeding and sometimes infection. A very optimistic good attitude and calmness of soul will help a lot in this area. And over-the-counter lubricants always help with extreme dryness of the vagina.

Two … As funny as it may sound, there are so many sexual changes that come with aging that can be positive for aging women. This is the time that they can freely share what excites them about sex with their husbands without nursing the fear of pregnancy. For an older woman, her sexual experiences can also transform into body confidence and sexual prowess. In addition, the worry of an unwanted pregnancy disappears after menopause or following a hysterectomy. In this way, many older women enjoy sex more freely.

Three … Men will also start to notice changes in their bodies with age. Many older husbands usually find aspects of sexuality more challenging than they used to. It may take longer to get an erection and erections may not be as firm as they used to be. Men may need more foreplay for an erection to occur. They may produce less semen. After ejaculation, loss of erection may happen more rapidly or it can take longer to get another erection.

Erectile dysfunction (ED) or the loss of ability to get or maintain an erection occurs in up to 65 per cen of men over age 65. Men who have heart disease, high blood pressure, or diabetes may find that these conditions contribute to impotence, either because of the health problems themselves or the medications used to treat them. But one of the very major ways to handle these categories of challenges is never to take any sexual changes noticed at earlier age for granted, never to indulge in an unhealthy lifestyle year earlier, never to neglect any warning signs from their sexual organs such as the prostrate, the urethra, the bladder, the penis, and the scrotum at all.

Four … All things being equal, older husbands are still in the best position to enjoy lots and lots of comforting and relaxing sexual pleasure. Age comes with experience and an older, experienced husband is often more attuned to the importance of foreplay in turning on their wives. Older husbands are more likely to know that slowing down and paying attention to their wives’ pleasure is a crucial part of good sex. Older husbands may also last longer and take longer to orgasm as an adjustment to their bodies’ slower arousal period. But when this is done under a relaxed atmosphere, sex becomes a big deal at this age period.

Five … Several causes of sexual problems can occur with age, but they can be well handled with proper information. Do you know that illness, disability and even medications used to treat medical conditions can affect sexual performance and enjoyment? However, most older couples can have a satisfying sex life even with medical issues.

Six … Arthritis causes joint pains that can make sexual intimacy uncomfortable. All you need to do is to exercise, rest, always take warm baths and experiment with different positions; they help a lot to alleviate the pains. For couples with back pain, a side-by-side sex position takes pressure off the back and other joints. In this position, both couples lie facing each other with their legs interlaced. This position is also good for couples who have recently had hip replacement surgery, particularly if either of the partners’ legs is on top. For a wife with arthritis in the hips or knees, she may be more comfortable lying at the edge of the bed with her husband either standing or kneeling in front of her. If a husband has arthritic knees, he may experience less painful sex if he lies down while his wife straddles him on top. If both partners have painful, arthritic hips, they may want to have the wife lie on the bottom with pillows propping up her bent knees. The husband lies between her legs and be in a “push-up” position with bent knees and straight arms.

Seven … In men, diabetes can cause erectile dysfunction (ED, also called impotence). Diabetes can also cause retrograde ejaculation, causing semen to travel backward into a man’s bladder instead of out of the penis. In women, diabetes can cause sexual problems, including vaginal dryness, painful intercourse, decreased libido and lack of sexual arousal and orgasm. Over-the-counter lubricants can sometimes help. The bad aspect of this issue is that men with diabetes have double problem with their erection, the diabetes usually affects the erection and the anti-diabetic drugs also have a bad effect on their erection. The only saving grace on this issue is for husbands to look out for natural herbs that will help maintain a good erection while the problem of the diabetes is being maintained.

Eight … Heart disease is another medical condition that can lead to sexual problems. Hardening and narrowing of the arteries (atherosclerosis) can impede blood flow and high blood pressure (hypertension) also impairs blood flow, both of which can lead to problems with erections in men. Heart disease can lead to a heart attack. Most people can eventually resume sexual activity following a heart attack about three to six weeks after their condition becomes stable again. Follow your doctor’s advice regarding sexual activity after a heart attack.

Nine … Bladder dysfunction in men and women can affect one’s sex life. Common problems include overactive bladder, poor control of sphincter muscles, urine retention problems and urinary tract infections (UTIs) and untreated sexual transmitted diseases. Sexual activity can cause pressure on the bladder, which may cause incontinence (leakage of urine), a problem that makes many husbands and wives to avoid sex. These conditions can usually be treated naturally with intense kegel exercise.

Ten … One of the biggest challenges older couples face is the wisdom to handle good sex immediately after the attack of stroke. Against popular opinion, stroke doesn’t usually affect a man or woman’s ability to have sex, but it may cause problems with erections in men and psychosomatic problem in women. Communication problems could arise from loss of speech, but if well managed with good attitude, it could be overcome; it may be reduced by couples learning to communicate with touch. I need older couples to be aware of the fact that drugs prescribed for stroke such as tranquilisers, sleeping pills, and high blood pressure medication can sometimes interfere with sex. In the case of high blood pressure medications that may cause impotence, one solution may be to plan for sex before taking the medication and some healthy natural herbs. For women on birth control, a change in birth control medication may make sex less difficult.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]