21 reasons you must get rid of your sexual challenges now
Funmi Akingbade

Man is created to be the head of his household but when anything threatens that authority, a man must fight it with all his energy. Prenature ejaculation is one of such aberrations and there are seven compelling reasons you must get rid of it now without any further delay

A premature ejaculation is the emission of spermatozoa before the wishes of both sexual partners. In other words, a condition witnesses the release of sperm cells in the vagina before the man or woman is ready. Weak Erection or weak ejaculation or erectile dysfunction is almost as similar to premature ejaculation. The difference is that in weak erection, the man goes soft and complete flaccid and weak while still at the level of imagination and arousal or while still on active service and the challenge is majorly on the physiology of erection and all the organs involved in the interplay of erection. While in erectile dysfunction, the penis cannot perform as required or do more than required, such as the penis going for more rounds of sexual intercourse at any point in time, due to lots of reasons which could be placed under some categories.

Here are 21 reasons you must not keep that problem a day longer with you.

One … Organic categories are mainly due to faulty functionalities of some organs leading to some backfiring effects on the penis for example, hypertension, diabetics, ulcer, issues with the prostrate leading to low libido or poor libido, problem with the urethra, anxiety of performance and depression. Depression used to be a western disease but recently, it has been recorded that many husbands are more depressed than their wives. And when a man is depressed, he loses his erection and also ability to perform regardless of any stimulation and enhancers.

Two … Substance categories are mainly due to the use of substances such as smoking, consumption of alcohol, too much consumption of artificial brewed drinks, too much consumption of synthetic and processed food, such as sugar and the likes.

Three … Environmental categories are mainly due to excessive stress condition, age, unhealthy marital life that is characterised by unforgiveness, anger, vengeance and hatred.

Four …Lifestyle categories are issues surrounding individual’s eating lifestyle, general unhealthy lifestyle such as getting infected with sexually transmitted diseases, addictive masturbation, anal sex and the likes.

Five … If there is one sexual problem that can threaten and has threatened the existence of a good marriage relationship, it is erectile dysfunction. Some wives may perhaps sometimes put up with husbands with small penis sizes especially when they have mastered the art of staying on longer inside a woman and are smart, giving a woman pleasure [though this is in a very rare occasion. But when a man [especially with a small penis] cannot keep his lady asking for more, it is a sign of big trouble and double problem. The truth is that if that happens, there are two possibilities: it is either she gets satisfaction from another man (it could be your driver) or gets out of the relationship altogether.

Six … It is a direct attack on the man’s self-esteem. A man who cannot satisfy a woman in bed is in trouble, as he cannot be said to be in charge of the house. If a man has little or no money but he is well endowed down below and he is smart with his endowment, he is a winner anytime with his woman but when a man comes too quickly, wetting the bed instead of holding his wife spelt bound in bed, he is not in charge. His ego is likely to be progressively deflated.

Seven … Eventually you lose control of your wife. Believe me. I am a woman and I can tell you it is the exceptional, extraordinary, unusual, uncommon, rare and God-fearing woman who will remain faithful to a man who cannot ‘perform’ in bed. If you cannot perform in bed, there are only two things. It is either your wife is already getting it from somewhere else or is planning to.

Eight … Low productivity: When a man cannot perform his role as a husband in terms of sexual satisfaction, his general energy level will be affected and there is the likelihood that he would be depressed most of the time and overwhelmed with the stress of what to do. And when depression comes in, a man cannot perform at his optimum level at work or in his business. And this can cause series of problem including loss of jobs or slide in business.

Nine … Poverty: When a man cannot concentrate, it also means that he cannot function at his best. When a man is in top shape, he can multi task and generate income from multiple sources but when the energy level is down, his productivity is also at the lowest ebb and gradually laziness sets in which ultimately heralds poverty as the Bible says.

Ten … Health problems: Good sexual relationship is not only medicinal, it reduces aging, it helps increase more productions of essential male sex hormones and brings good health. When a man and woman enjoy moments of unhindered sexual life, they tend to be up and going. However, when a man discovers that he is not up to it in terms of his sexual responsibility, all manner of complicated health problems set in as a result of depressive thoughts.

Eleven … Spiritual. Biblically it is also a sin for a man to fail to perform his sexual responsibility to his wife. Giving money is one but being able to satisfy your wife is even a greater responsibility. A woman would sometimes be willing to switch a rich man who cannot perform in bed for a poor man who is a dynamite in bed! Better believe it!

To be continued

Inbox questions and answers

Question one

Is frequent sex healthy?

My husband says frequent sex is not healthy, how do I change his mind? I really do not care if my story is published or not. Nevertheless, I am sure that the answer you will give will liberate others who are having the same problem as I do.

Here is my story. My husband and I have been married for over four years. After our marriage, we had to live in different cities. I was in Port-Harcourt, while he lived in Asaba. We only met once in every two weeks. This lasted for about one and a half years, though we got on very well and our sex life was fantastic.

Thereafter, I got a job in Ibadan and we started living together. Ever since, our sex life has gone downhill. Whenever it comes to sex, we argue a lot. Nowadays, I am lucky if we have sex once in a week. Even then, I would have to beg him, on my knees. He only consents after he has had a couple of drinks. It is so frustrating. If I try talking to him about it, he gets defensive and says he believes that sex should just come naturally. He would then add that planning for it or learning about it makes it artificial. To make matters worse, our lovemaking ends abruptly, with him ejaculating within a few minutes and rolling off to sleep and snore. We rarely cuddle after that. We usually go to sleep or get up to do something else. All these I can manage, but the one I desperately need an answer to is the fact that my husband says frequent sex is not healthy. How can I make him believe otherwise?

Mrs. Seriously Disturbed

Most of the e-mails I get are usually from men, although some also come from women who muster the courage to share their problems with someone they have never met. This is the reason I try to always respond to such questions. My intention is to always reward the courage displayed by such ladies and also lend a helping hand.

I find your case intriguing, particularly that you have to beg your husband for sex. Most times, this type of complaint comes from men. However, I must confess that this is a problem that I come across very often in my mails and during seminars.

I think many couples find themselves in this type of situation because they do not know that it is common for passion to ebb in relationships. As I have written here on many occasions, no matter how much we may think we are in love, it is normal for passion, and even lust, to ebb. Couples must learn to notice when this is happening and take proactive steps to remedy the situation.

When a marriage is young, it is normal for couples to devour each other at moment’s notice. Moreover, this usually happens without either of them having to make extra efforts. This is wonderful while it lasts. Afterwards, it is natural when it stops happening to both spouses. At this point, both partners have a choice, either to watch their sex life go downhill or learn how to create passionate sex, which takes a lot of effort and time. Fortunately, the effort is so richly rewarding with pleasure, excitement, surprise that such couples will wonder why they had not done that before now!

Therefore, on this score, your husband is wrong to have thought that sex should not be ‘planned or learnt’. Sex is good when it is spontaneous, but then what should a couple do when it ceases to be? Sex, like any other human activity, can be planned and learnt. Also drinking lots of alcohol before sex does not increase sexual performance; it only increases sexual desires and most times the after effect of the alcohol drains off energy for good performance.

Having said that, it may be difficult to offer advice to you without having the full details of other non-sexual factors that may be responsible for your husband’s behaviour. Some unaddressed factors may be predisposing factors to such behaviour. Sometimes, the attitude, actions, comportment or hygiene of a spouse can make the other spouse to stay off sex.

One of the main challenges of a typical African marriage, especially in Nigeria, is that couples do not create leisure time for their sexual harmony. A typical couple knows how to work, make money but not how to take time off and learn how to flavour their sex lives. Make time for each other, at least, once every week: no family, no friends, and no business. You must learn how to set aside several hours where the focus would be you, your mate, your relationship and your sexuality. You need this to stoke up your sexual passion. It may or may not include sexual activities, but it should always be sensual, intimate and fun.

You can also watch good films, particularly romantic movies with your husband. While I frown at pornographic films, I encourage couples to watch any of the improvement videos, prepared by sexologists and made to improve couple’s sexual lives. It is also a way to sparkle one’s sex life.

While I know that your husband may show little interest in all these since he says that it is not good to plan sex, I am sure he would be interested in knowing that sex does not have any adverse effect on health. It is indeed very beneficial to one’s health. In fact, a recent study claims that sex may be the best form of exercise after all.

I plan to run an extensive article on the health benefits of sex. I am going to show that good sex works like good medicine and that some of the health complications we experience can be taken care of by good, healthy sex in a sound relationship. Therefore, prepare. Get your husband to read this article. Discuss your fears and pains with him (please do not nag, nagging turns men off) in a loving manner. In addition, you should both look forward to next week’s article. It could change your lives.

I only enter his bedroom whenever he needs sex

The only time I enter my husband’s bedroom is when he needs sex. Any other time, he shuts his room door against me. He said that is the tradition in their family and that he is more productive sleeping alone. There have been occasions when the children fell ill in the middle of the night but he would only come out of his room and insist we nurse the child in my room and not his. Curiosity had made me break into the room when he was away but I did not find anything unusual. His slogan is ‘stay in your room, I don’t share room with a woman.’ But I am not just a woman, I am his wife. This has made me refuse him sex, am I doing the right thing?

Maureen Paul

In an ideal situation, couples should share everything together, including the bedroom; secluded privacy is not actually for married people. Spontaneous sex which is still rated as the best sex happens more often among couples that share same bedroom and mattress. Besides, some crucial marital issues may be best discussed and solved at night seasons; separate rooms will not help make this happen. It is also easier for couples to reconcile their differences while sleeping together in the same bedroom than while sleeping in separate bedrooms. Nevertheless, some people may be more productive, experience quality rest and get more privacy with separate rooms. I still think it is best to discuss this or let the sleeping dog lie.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]