Would you forgive a spouse who tried to poison you?
Forgiveness is perhaps one of the major attributes anyone must possess before entering into marriage, because at any time, offence can arise from either of the partners. Having said that, any offence that involves a direct threat to one’s life is one taken too far, which was why SATURDAY PUNCH asked some Nigerians if they would forgive a spouse who tried to poison them

I’d forgive, but the marriage is over – Bola Jagun

Yes, I would forgive him because the Bible says we should forgive everyone, including our enemies. However, I can’t say I would forget about the incident. Such can never be forgotten. And because of this, I would never live with him again because he had shown himself to be heartless and wicked. He could eventually kill me someday. I would never spend the rest of my life with such a person again. I believe that marriage is not a do-or-die affair. In marriage, my happiness matters a lot.

I can’t forgive her, she’s a devil – Folajin Oyefemi

No way! I can’t forgive such a woman. It shows she is wicked and would not stop at anything in order to kill me. I would never give her a second chance. In fact, we have to go our separate ways before she finds another way to murder me. That kind of woman is not a spouse; she is the devil and a murderer. It’s better to flee from people like that than think she would change.

I’d run for my life – Oyindamola Anibaba

I would forgive him because forgiveness is divine. However, we can’t live together again. That would be the end of the relationship. To even think of poisoning me meant that he could use a machete to behead me. That kind of person is a murderer. Therefore, I would run for my life. My safety is very important. I can’t live in such an endangered environment.

Not forgiving her would hurt my inner peace – Kuroz Alfred

Choosing not to forgive her is what would affect my own inner peace in the long run. So, I think it’s better to just forgive her and move on. Of course, our relationship can never be the same again after the incident because I wouldn’t know what her next move would be. We would need to go our separate ways.

Divorce would resolve the issue – Akhigbe Celestina

I would forgive him because as a Christian, that’s what Jesus would do. However, living with him thereafter is a different ball game. I don’t think I have to risk my life living with such a man again. Divorce would sort out the whole issue because wanting to kill me is the height of disaffection and hatred. There would be no need to pretend as if we are one anymore.

I’d forgive, but be more careful in eating her food – Akinboye Akinsola

There is no problem about forgiving her. At least I should be thanking God that she didn’t succeed in killing me. Since we are married and I still love her, I would have to sit her down and at least know why she attempted to poison me. Giving her a second chance could change her for life, But of course, I would find it hard to eat her food. I’d have to be more careful.

That’s the end of our marriage – Orowale Omolara

Though I would forgive him, that would be the end of the marriage. That kind of man would find another way to finish his evil work. Once God has delivered you from an incident, you have to become wiser and not fall into the same pit next time. That kind of husband is a fake one and I would need to run for my life.

Even if I forgave her, I’d run for my life – Isaiah Adeboye

Before I make any rash decision, I think I would need to ask her what made her to think of poisoning me. Of course, this does not mean I would stay in the marriage. I would just love to know the reason, after which I would decide whether to forgive her or not. But even if I forgave her, I would still run for my dear life. She is not my wife again. That’d be the end of our marriage.

That’s not a man to be with – Saphire Eniwoma

It is very important to know that a spouse who tried to poison you is not your lover. That’s wickedness. I am sure that such a person would try other means to make sure you end up dead. That is not someone to be with. Though I would forgive him, that would be the end of the marriage. Better to be single and alive than to be married and be killed by one’s own spouse.

I’d totally forgive her – Shina Adewole

Yes, I can forgive her. Maybe I had offended her before and she was looking for a way to punish me. The fact that I survived the poisoning meant that God wanted me to forgive and move on. If not, I should have just died. I would discuss with her and if she showed any remorse, I would forgive her. The power to forgive is even in God’s hands, so who am I not to forgive my enemy?

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]