Girls, stop inviting trouble into your lives!!!
Dear Temilolu,

I just read your article in Saturday Punch newspaper and I’m highly impressed. You are doing a wonderful job. God will reward you abundantly. Though the article is not meant for me because I’m a grandma, yet I’m fascinated. Keep on going dear. God is your strength.

Alhaja Kudirat Aderonke Adams

Dear mummy,

I always look forward to reading your publications every time because it’s the spirit that keeps me moving and soaring in the spirit of chastity. I really appreciate you!

Ibrahim Rukayat Oloyede

Dear Madam Temilolu,

Your words are filled with wisdom and life. I really thank you for the good works you have been doing in the lives of our daughters and the young girls of this generation. May God strengthen you and cause you to prosper in your ministry.

Leke Bello

My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian sisters,

Your sister, your friend, your confidant, your mama is here again this Saturday to hammer into your souls some useful advice from God. You don’t want to know what time of the day it is and how tired I am! Who sent me right? I can’t help the gnawing pain in my heart just thinking about what the world is turning into, the unfortunate foundation most of you are laying for your future and the unborn generation and most of all, how stupid, bad, devil is having a last laugh over too many destinies. How I hate him or it! How it baffles me that you girls as beautiful and wonderfully-made as you are with superb spiritual gifts which the male folk can’t boast of (sorry sirs) would be so gullible to ignore God’s commandments and pile up trouble for your future because of what you are meant to eventually enjoy for the better part of your life. A lot of you keep talking about grace, grace, grace, ISN’T THERE SOMETHING THAT ATTRACTS GOD’S GRACE??? You flagrantly disobey God and think God will overlook it because of the seeds you sow?“Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? Or who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart;” Psalm 24:3-4 Believe me, your height in life and your level of spirituality is determined by the power of God in you! If you think you are successful, yet full of ungodliness, you’ve not reached the height God planned for you. Take it or leave it!

And to think there’s so much information that your destiny is in dire need of URGENTLY which all the world’s prophets may not be able to supply because it’s in God’s exclusive preserve! Perhaps the reason why your life is completely at a standstill today or some vicissitude ahead of you which could eventually knock you out of life and ruin your beautiful destiny that began so well but sadly you are neck-deep into fornication, shutting God out and giving the devil power to mutilate your destiny!

“What man is he that feareth the Lord? Him shall he teach in the way that he shall choose. The secret of the Lord is with them that fear him; and he will shew them his covenant.” Psalm 25: 12, 14

Even if God forgives you, what about the evil baggage you loaded into your life through transference of spirits through sexual intercourse? Or you didn’t know that sexual intercourse is spiritual intercourse, spiritual exchange? Do you think it’s easy to get rid of? Oh! What a pity! May you not spend 20 years grounded on one spot! Too many men and women are finished before their middle age and roaming aimlessly in cyclic problems because they slept with the wrong person! And may the mighty power of God uproot greed from your soul because a lot of you engage in pre-marital sex in exchange for favours! Do you know that’s prostitution? You invite unnecessary trouble into your life and start crying that a force is always trying to suffocate you when sleeping; some spirit is always having sex with you in the dream and so much more! Yet you keep defiling God’s temple! You can’t be serious!

Girls…girls…girls…!!! NEVERTHELESS THE FOUNDATION OF GOD STANDETH SURE, HAVING THIS SEAL; THE LORD KNOWETH THEM THAT ARE HIS. AND, LET EVERY ONE THAT NAMETH THE NAME OF CHRIST DEPART FROM INIQUITY. 2 Timothy 2:19

Depart…depart…depart…! May your enemy, the devil know the bitter shame of defeat over your lives and may his everlasting shame know no end in Jesus mighty name!

This is God’s message for you all today! HOW TO ACTIVATE THE POWER OF GOD WITH YOUR PURITY continues next Saturday. May God bless you all and make you VERY GREAT! Amen!

(Please Google– Girls Club-Punch Newspapers for previous articles.)

Love Always,

Your Mama

May almighty God promote Saturday Punch!

I invite you to follow me on facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO (not Temilolu okeowo girls club or TEMILOLU OKEOWO Girls Club group). Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu.

Scam Alert: Temilolu okeowo girls club page and group as well as Temilolu cares for you are fake facebook accounts.

Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a Secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and State of domicile to 07086620576.

FINAL WORD

Chastity does not belong to the past. It saves you a lot of trouble, preserves your beautiful destiny and stands you out from the crowd. You are better off not engaging in pre-marital and extra-marital sex. Stay chaste!



• • •

________________________________________

Temilolu Okeowo

[email protected]

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]