When you feel emotionally absent from your marriage
The feeling of emotional absence in marriage can be felt by the couple as both share the same emotions such as love and affection even though they each express it differently. Today, more and more couples are feeling emotionally disconnected from their spouses and this is affecting their health and wellbeing. This can also be associated to the growing rate of separations and divorces today as many couples simply cannot continue to live in denial unlike many years ago when divorce was seen as a stigma in many societies.

Perhaps you have become disconnected from your spouse and your commitment to your marriage is gradually fading too, the truth is; you are not alone even though the end may seem imminent, you do not have to continue to suffer in silence. The bitter truth is that many marriages today are suffering from emotional disconnection and while some couples are willing to go the extra mile to recognise this challenge and seek solution, many more are not keen to identify their problems.

What is the health of your marriage presently?

Just like everything you do in life, marriage also needs evaluation from time to time and this is one aspect many couples take for granted. Marriage can also drain the happiness it sometimes brings when changes occur and more responsibilities set in; therefore it is important to come together as a couple periodically to evaluate your marriage and take stock of not only the challenges alone but also the successes too. Once you know the health of your marriage, it will be easier to develop strategies as a couple to help you through the difficulties and get yourselves back on track again.

Why do you feel emotionally disconnected?

You also need to ask yourself this question as you may also be able to look for solution within yourself. Do you have a personal sense of fulfilment and purpose? This is a question you may need to answer if you feel disconnected from your marriage because marriage is not going to give you all the joy and happiness you truly desire if you do not find it first within yourself.

What are the problems?

The first step is to both recognise the changes and go back to the basics from where you started, view your relationship as a couple and think of all the things you were doing before and how those small or big things have suddenly faded away. Only you can help yourselves to profound the change you both desperately desire to take back your marriage.

Marriage is selfless, it is an emotional and physical connection of two consenting adults who are ready to share their hearts and when this is not possible, it can break one or both hearts. You cannot overcome emotional disconnection alone; it will take both of your efforts to meet all the requirements together as two they say is always better than one.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]