Man who has been in eight failed marriages says he isn’t giving up on love
A 69-year-old man, Ron Sheppard, says he has not given up on love even though he has had eight failed marriages.

When Sheppard met Cristel Lalec, he probably thought it would be the final ‘bus stop’ for him until she ran off with another man before he could tie the knot.

READ ALSO: I sold victim’s parts for N8,500 – Suspected ritualist

Things were bad enough for ­Britain’s most married man Ron after Filipino Cristel, 28, had been told by the Home Office she could no longer stay in the UK and would have to return home, UK Mirror reported.

But he was left devastated when she packed her bags and fled. Ron believes she was seeing another man and has now alerted police and the Border Agency in case she is trying to stay here illegally.

Sheppard said, “I’m devastated by this, I did everything for that girl and she does a runner, I feel like such a mug.”

He revealed that “cracks began to appear” in their relationship because she was still married in the Philippines, despite pledging to divorce.

He said, “We had no love life, nothing whatsoever because she insisted she was a committed Christian and did not believe in sex before marriage.

“I respected that and hoped at least she would become my carer but she just became more distant.

READ ALSO: British mother-of-nine leaves UK husband for Gambian lover

“She hated my Norman Wisdom impressions, she had no idea who he was. She’d just sit there with her earphones in taking selfies and I’d have to shout her name just to get her to look at me.”

Ron still applied for a carer’s visa for Cristel in the hope they could spend their lives together.

But he added: “I should have known when she lost her ­engagement ring that things were not right.

“Then she started going out a lot and making new friends.

“Even after her visa was denied I thought there might be a chance but she just grew so cold and distant.

“Then, on Saturday, she told me she was going out. She looked at me for a long time and said she was flying home next week and wished me goodbye.

“I now know she was saying goodbye forever, I checked her room after she left and realised she had taken all of her luggage.

“I can’t reach her at all and she has blocked me on Facebook.

“A friend has told me she met another man since she has been here and is now with him. I am devastated beyond words.

“I loved that woman with all my heart. But I thought it was for the best I phoned the police and the Border Agency just in case she was trying to stay illegally.”

Ron met Cristel when he lived in Thailand with wife number seven and her friend Wan. The trio would socialise regularly.

He lost contact when that relationship collapsed.

But after his marriage to eighth wife Weng started to break down he struck up a friendship with Cristel in 2015.

Ron flew to the Philippines and spent that Christmas with call centre worker Cristel and her family in their rural home in Lubao, Pampanga.

He wasted no time and on New Year’s Eve asked the mum-of-one to marry him. She arrived last November and lived at his home in Somerton, Somerset.

In a Mirror interview after they met, Ron, who suffers from Parkinson’s disease amongst other ailments, said: “This one is real love. This is the last one. I promise.”

Cristel insisted she was not using the sickly pensioner just as a way to get to Britain.

She said: “I know what it looks like but I am not here for a ­passport. I am not here to take advantage of Ron.”

But despite his heartache, old romantic Ron insisted he has not given up on finding his “forever wife”.

He said: “Cristel won’t put me off looking for love. Wife number nine is still out there, I just have to find her.

“As far as I’m concerned I’m back on the market. I’m not going to say I haven’t already had women contacting me, I don’t know what it is about me, women just seem to flock to me.

“I’m batting them off. I think it could be my natural charm and charisma.

“I am great at ­impressions, I can do 54 different people like Norman Wisdom and Frank Spencer.

“Although I’ve got to be honest after all this time I sometimes think women could just be too much trouble.

“But I am determined to not die alone, I refuse to end up in a home and I will find someone who will love me for who I am.”

Ron has been married for 44 of the past 48 years, the longest lasting 13 years and the shortest just 10 months.

He said: “The Tories should get me to negotiate Brexit, after all, how many people have had as many divorces as me?”