When your husband takes a second wife
MOTUNRAYO JOEL examines the views of married men and women on the best ways to cope when a man marries a second wife

A Yoruba saying states that no woman is comfortable sharing her husband with another woman. This is evident in Mrs. Gloria Jegede’s conclusion to file a suit for divorce if her husband marries a second wife.

The teacher said, “It would break my heart, but filing for divorce would be my only option. I pray that never happens to me. No woman prays for that.”

But a businesswoman and mother of twins, Mrs. Rukayat Obidiran, said if she weren’t a Muslim, she still wouldn’t be bothered if her husband married a second wife.

Obidiran said she settled the issue of another wife long after her marriage. According to her, she lives for her kids and feels blessed to have them.

“What more can I ask for? There is nothing I can do other than to accept it,” she said.

For a mother of two, Mrs. Toun Ogunniyi, if her husband marries a second wife, she will neglect him and concentrate on her children.

She stated that she would consider his action as betrayal and refrain from telling him her secrets because he “sold the love I have for him to another person.”

A former bank worker, Mr. Samson Adeboye, who said he detested polygamy, urged a woman, whose husband married another wife, to quit her home.

He said he would take his sister away from her matrimonial home if her husband married another woman. “I will also injure him if he visits my house,’’ he added.

A businesswoman, Mrs. Tomi Harrison (not real name), said she contemplated suicide when her husband informed her of his plans to marry a second wife.

She said she never saw it coming because being Christians; her husband’s reason was unclear.

Harrison added, “If someone told me that my husband would marry a second wife, I would laugh it off. We were close from our university days. On the day of our wedding, it felt as if I was marrying my best friend. Till today, I don’t know what happened. I still don’t know how his love for me went cold. Whenever I think of his action, I shed tears.”

Harrison added that her husband also informed her about his plans to get a separate accommodation for his new wife.

She said she would always advise young, married ladies to prepare their mind in case their husbands marry another woman.

A mother of three, identified only as Mrs. John, said she believed it’s a man’s nature to have more than one wife. “Whenever I see a woman crying over her husband’s decision to take a second wife, I laugh. I see no reason why she should cry. I always say men will always be men. You would hardly find a man who is satisfied with one wife; men love variety,” she said.

But a businessman, Mr. Debola Olumide, said he had no plans to take a second wife but that his wife’s attitudes sometimes worry him.

He faulted John’s submission that men were naturally prone to sampling women.

“I don’t like it when a woman nags; some women naturally nag. My wife complains about things that should be overlooked. Every man wants a wife who is fun to be with,” said. Olumide.

A cloth designer, Mr. Dotun Ogunsanwo, said if he were to be a Muslim, he wouldn’t hesitate to marry a second wife.

Though unmarried, Ogunsanwo said he saluted men who stayed married to one woman for years.

“I wonder if the men don’t get bored of being with one wife all day. There is no harm in a man choosing to marry a second wife as long as he doesn’t neglect his responsibilities as a husband and father,” stated Ogunsanwo.

But a father, Mr. Nnamdi Chinonso, who is married for 20 years, said his marriage to his wife was his best decision ever.

Chinonso said, “Why should I marry a second wife? I am 100 per cent satisfied with my wife. She is my best friend; I can’t imagine my life without her. We met in the university. I won’t advise any man to take a second wife. It can ruin his life.”

However, a businessman, Mr. Ibrahim Hassan, who has three wives, said there was no big deal in having more than one wife.

Hassan believed the beauty of marriage was to have more than one woman because doing so would bring about more children.

“All I advise is that a man who has chosen to have a second wife must take care of them. He must not favour one wife and neglect the other. He also must not show that he loves one wife more than the other. If he begins to show that he prefers one to the other, he has sown a wrong seed in the mind of his wives. The wives may begin to hate themselves,” Hassan added.

A single mother, identified only as Ms. Segun, said he left her former husband after he married a second wife.

Segun said she couldn’t stand seeing another woman cook for her husband and take care of him.

She added that she walked out of her matrimonial home and rented another apartment one day. “I may have done something I would regret if I had continued to live with him. I think any woman, who can’t stand seeing another woman in her home, should move out. It is better than hurting her husband or his second wife.

“Life is too short to worry over issues one cannot change. I am living a happy life. I don’t regret my action,” Segun stated.

Speaking on the issue, a marriage counsellor, Mr. Henry Ezekiel, said a woman, whose husband chose to take to a second wife, should be calm in such a situation.

Ezekiel added, “The first thing the woman must do is to stay calm. Shouting at her husband or complaining about his decision would only make matters worse. I would advise she visits a marriage counsellor with her husband.

“Overtime, I have come to realise the one reason men take a second wife. It is because they are bored with their first wife. I hear men say they love their first wife but that nothing has changed in their life since they got married to her. They said they are tired of seeing the same face around them. Any woman who wants to stop her husband from taking a second wife should do so in a calm, smart way.”

Another marriage counsellor, Mrs. Helina Jones, advised women to pay special attention to their appearance and home.

“I am totally against polygamy, but some men, who have two wives, told me that their first wife pushed them into marrying a second wife. They said their first wife had no care for their home. Whenever I speak to wives battling with the issue of a second wife, I tell them to wake up. That is they should wake up to their roles as a wife and mother,” she said.

Similarly, another marriage counsellor, Mr. John Isikpe, said it was possible for a woman to convince her husband not to marry a second wife

According to him, if a man’s decision to marry a second wife is not based on his religion, his wife can convince him not to take a second wife.

Isikpe added, “The affected woman should begin to pay attention to her dressing, cooking and other things that would make her husband happy in his home.

“It is so easy for a woman to win her husband’s heart if she knows the right button to press. Almost all men want to be loved and cared for. A woman must not be a grandmother to her husband. She should be his wife and dress like his wife. She should constantly do things that make him happy.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]