If the police declared your best friend wanted with a N50m reward, would you turn them in?
There is a popular saying that a true friend is someone who thinks that you are a good egg even though he knows that you are slightly cracked. Such is the level of trust that should be between two friends, no matter the circumstances. Saturday Punch decided to ask Nigerians if they would turn in their best friend to the police with a N50m reward

I can’t betray her loyalty and trust

Benjamin Ndumuanya

I do not think I can turn her in for even a billion naira reward. Her presence in my life is worth more than that because she stirs me to greatness. I can’t betray her loyalty and trust. Although, it’s a huge amount of money, I can’t betray her even if it means breaking the law.

Life isn’t all about money

Adejumoke Olagunju

I will not turn my best friend in because life isn’t all about money. N50m is a lot of money, but it can’t be the same value as my best friend’s life. I won’t sell my best friend out. There are some hidden qualities that make her my best friend. I will protect her because our relationship is worth it.

Except he’s a serial killer

Adedeji Owolagba

If my best friend was wanted for a crime that would attract the sum of N50m as a reward, I can’t turn him in. Except if the crime he committed is very awful like being a serial killer or belonging to a ritual gang, I’d turn him in. But if the crime is related to finance, I won’t turn him in. I believe he would do the same for me too.

The money will finish

Abeke Oginni

No, I cannot turn my best friend in for a financial reward. The police can do proper investigation on how to get her. The money will finish and when she comes out of jail, how do I expect her to look at me? She trusted me, that’s why I believe she told me where she is. The money will finish and I’d lose a dear friend.

I won’t assist the police

Durotimi Fagbuyi

The money is really tempting and having such an amount of money would change a lot of things in my life right now. But if I refuse to turn him in, the question is, would he be ready to return the favour if I was the victim? Although he has been a wonderful friend and I don’t think I would want to pay him back with such betrayal. The police should develop other ways to get him, I won’t assist them.

She must be punished for her crime

Aramide Amodu

For the police to declare her wanted with a bounty, she must have committed a serious crime. I’d turn her in because, me hiding her is illegal and she must be punished for the crime she committed. Also the money is a plus for me. I do not see what I am about to do as a sign of betrayal because I am sure she will do the same thing to me for the money.

She has to pay for her crime

Oluwatobi Balogun

I would gladly turn my best friend in, not for the reward money but for justice. Betrayal is my friend committing the crime in the first place and not me turning her in. We are best friends and I should know of any move she wants to make. If I knew, I would have stopped her but now, she has to pay for her crime. I’m a citadel of moral discipline.

I will rather be silent

Yetunde Adeleke

I have to be really sure that she will do the same thing for me if it was the other way round because some friends can’t lift a finger for your sake, not to talk of a whole hand. The nature of the crime is very important too. If it’s related to murder, I will gladly turn her in because she has put a whole family in sorrow. But if the crime she committed isn’t severe, I would not trade my friendship for money. I will rather be silent than get involved.

Sholola Shoroye

My conscience would haunt me daily

Sincerely, N50m is a huge sum of money but I don’t think I would want to turn my friend in if wanted by the police. As long as they can’t prove that I am in any way obstructing investigation, I won’t turn him in. Also, I won’t stop them from arresting him but I won’t help the police because they don’t deserve my help. My conscience would haunt me daily and I am not ready for that.

I’d help hide her away from police

Tabitha Garba

Although it’s a huge sum of money to start a business and live a good life, there’s more to life than that. What if after betraying my friend by turning her in to the police, I get the money and I don’t have the chance to spend it? I lose on both sides. I have to be 100 per cent sure she didn’t commit the crime and even if she did, I can’t betray my loyalty to her for money. I’d help her hide away from the police and we will find a way to work it out.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]