ICYMI: 16 forgotten angles to sexual pleasure (II)
Funmi Akingbade

Seven … The ‘G’-spot is an erogenous zone located inside the vagina that can produce some pretty intense sensations. At the same time, it can also produce some extreme frustrations, disappointment and dissatisfaction because it is, for many women, elusive and mysterious. Although the whole notion of the ‘G’-spot is hardly new, sex researchers and therapists have been flaunting it for years in the medical field, though skeptical about whether it really exists. The ‘G’-spot is a very real part of the female anatomy; this fact is newly documented in MRI scans and biopsies by medical doctors. Thanks to this new research, one can now realise that every girl is capable of experiencing more concentrated sexual pleasure and powerful orgasm.

READ ALSO: UK seeks clarification about Kanu’s status, whereabouts from FG

Eight … There are disagreements about the actual size of the ‘G’-spot. It ranges from a quarter inch to a couple of inches along the upper wall of the vagina, about an inch or two past the female vaginal opening. Underneath are highly sensitive tissues that, when touched the right way, trigger feelings of sexual happiness and contentment.

The ‘G’-spot sensation, as described by most women, is more intense than those sensations they feel via clitoral stimulation. According to most of these women, there is more of a warm flushing feeling that resonates deeply through and throughout their entire body. Even experts who always believed in the ‘G’-spot were not sure whether it was a distinct gland or merely a collection of nerve endings extending from the underside of the clitoris. Here are what researchers are sure of the ‘G’- spot is and it is actually equivalent to an organ in the male body.

Nine … This is known as female prostrate because their tissues surround an area that produces chemicals similar to that of male prostate, a gland that creates fluid to nourish the sperm. Another similarity between the male prostate gland and the ‘G’-spot is that when the G-spot is aroused, women experience wetness more than they do during other types of stimulation. Some women disclose that they ejaculate some clean, clear colourless fluid when they reach orgasm.

Ten … Where and how do we locate the G spot? First and foremost, all you need to do as a wife is to lie back and just relax; embarking on your first G-spot mission location can really be wearisome and it will definitely take a lot of patience and persistence. Locating where can be done in two ways.

The first is the wife locating it by herself. By this, she will be able to guide her husband accordingly or with the assistance of the husband. When I am counselling others, I always encourage the second way, that is, the husband helping out with the location. If you, as a wife, want to locate the ‘G’ spot yourself, start by spreading your legs and bending your knees, so that your vagina is open and will be easily accessible. With your palm facing up, insert two fingers inside, pressing your finger-tips against the centre of the upper vaginal wall. By so doing, you are actually seeking a spongy puckered or slightly ridged area, like the roof of your mouth. If after several minutes you are still coming up empty handed, this is the time to call in for your husband’s assistance. Tell him to caress you the more, because when you are aroused, the ‘G’-spot is filled with fluid and becomes larger. It is easier to locate it if you are turned on by your husband. One sort of strange tip-off is that you will experience a sudden need to pee. Because the ‘G’-spot is so close to the urethra, touching it often triggers the urge to pee feeling. However, there is no need to run to the rest room because this is just a false alarm. The urge will go after some time. Now, locating the ‘G’-spot by yourself is just to let you know you have one and nothing more. But I am always of the opinion that the best way out is to engage your husband in locating this mystery spot to take you to this paradise of serial orgasm.

Eleven … Most times, many wives shy away from the fact that they should guide their husbands to locate and stimulate their ‘G’- area. There is no reason to shy away from things that will encourage oneness and intimacy between husband and wife. And from experience and counselling, I have yet to see a man refuse the offer of sex from his wife, all things being equal. To guide your husband to your ‘G’-spot, here is the easiest way to start off. Have him gently slip a finger or two inside your vagina and then softly feel along your upper vaginal wall. If he is having trouble finding the right spot, encourage him to kiss you (the slightest erotic kiss, when administered well, sets a wife off in a jiffy), touch your nipples or the outer vulva area in a feather-touch manner.

Remember, the more aroused you are, the more your ‘G’-spot area will stand out, making it easier to locate. Also consider placing a few pillows under your buttocks and widening your legs, which will open your vagina more and give him greater access. Once he hits the spot, ask him to massage it in slow, gentle circle. Let him try different caresses such as figure eights or a rapid sequence of pulses. The ‘G’- spot area can take a lot of pressure, so you may want to ask him to press harder. One ‘G’-spot touch technique your husband definitely should treat you to is light tapping. Have him use just the tip of his finger to tap firmly and repeatedly on the ‘G’-spot.

Twelve … There is a biological reason for the awesome feeling; the most intense moments of touch along any part of the body are usually the first few seconds. By tapping, it is as if he is touching your ‘G’-spot for the first time over and over again, building waves of sensation that can culminate in an incredible climax or orgasm. Like I said earlier on, I am here to do justice to all that the ‘G’-spot has to offer. To further boost the joy of stimulating the ‘G’-spot area, there are some sex moves that increase ‘G’-spot pleasure.

READ ALSO: 16 forgotten angles to sexual pleasure

Thirteen … A woman on top is a definite ‘G’-spot winner. Think about it when you are facing your husband, yet leaning back at a slight angle, his penis naturally rests against your upper vaginal wall. Even the slightest thrusting means he can easily stimulate your ‘G’-spot area plus being on top puts you in control of the depth and speed, letting you adjust your husband’s penis so his stokes can always hit the spot.

Fourteen … Doggie-style also offers maximum access, especially if you are lying on your stomach with your leg spread only slightly. When you lie on your stomach, with your legs close together, sandwiching the vaginal walls, it is almost impossible for your man’s penis not to come in contacts with your ‘G’-spot. And please don’t discount missionary position. Go with this modified version in which you are on your back with your knees bent and feet resting flat on the bed. Raise your pelvis by propping a few pillows under your buttocks. Your husband should sit up and enter you so he is thrusting at a slightly upward angle, which gives his penis access to your upper vaginal wall. This way, you will feel direct stimulation of your ‘G’-spot with each back-and-forth-thrust.

The last but not the least is the ultimate trick for G-spot bliss. And I always tell couples to save this type for their wedding anniversary day or a special holiday occasion. This is one bedroom trick involving the ‘G’-spot that tops them all when it comes to a knee-bucking climax; the blended orgasm.

Fifteen … This combines ‘G’- spot stimulation while your husband plays with your clitoris, working up to double-your-pleasure-orgasm. The nerves of the clitoris extend very closely to the G-spot, so reaching peak via the two types of touching at the same time is about as intense as it gets. To experience a blended orgasm during foreplay, wives, have your man caress your clitoris with his fingers while he is massaging your ‘G’-spot with one or two fingers with his other hand. As you get more excited, lift your pelvis to meet his fingers so you are almost thrusting against his hand. Ask him to brush your clitoris with his tongue while he is manually manipulating your ‘G’-spot. Finally when you can’t take it any more, encourage him to stimulate your inside and outside pleasure zone until you surrender to orgasm. You will experience both deep physical pleasure and deep emotional connection.

READ ALSO: My accuser tried to seduce me but I refused – Barber accused of rape by mother of four

Sixteen … Lastly, I want to sound a note of warning here that constant practice creates perfection. The more you stimulate it and incorporate it into your sex collection, the easier it becomes to achieve ‘G’-spot paradise. Besides having more sex, you can deepen the sensations you feel by regularly doing Kegel exercises. Repeatedly doing Kegel exercise will strengthen your vaginal muscle and give you a tighter grip during intercourse that helps to add more pressure to your ‘G’-spot. Once more, here is how to practise Kegel exercise. Zero in on the muscle in your pelvis that can stop the flow of urine. Squeeze as tight as you can; hold for five seconds and then release. Repeat ten times multiple times a day. Do the exercises during your downtime while stuck in the traffic, in the shower, or sitting at your desk at work. Ten minutes of Kegel a day should make your ‘G’-spot more responsive and serviceable.

Questions and answers

When can I start having sex again?

I just had a pelvic born transplant. Prior to this time, I was very active sexually and I love sex so much. Weeks after my recovery, my wife still insists I should stay away from sex; that it was one of the things that aggravated my pain before I had my surgery. But walking also aggravated it but now, I can not only walk, I can run and exercise. So, when can I start having sex again? I am missing out already. Each time I am with friends, I feel behind when they talk about their sexual escapades.

King Vickolo

Have you done a repeat visit to your surgeon? Please ask him and if he certifies you okay, you are good to go but just apply a bit of caution.

Natural cure for my erectile problem

Is there no natural exercise or something to do to cure me of my erectile dysfunction? I want to explore this first before thinking of the use of drugs.

BB Londoner

Kegel exercise can tone the muscles of your reproductive region and can also improve your sex life and cure erectile dysfunction by increasing the blood flow to the muscle of this area and give good sexual agility. In a study of 55 men with erectile dysfunction, 75 per cent improved or regained normal performance by doing Kegel each day. The good news is that you can do Kegel anywhere– in the car, at work, or while watching TV. Or you can incorporate Kegel into many standard exercises, like abdominal stretches. To see results, you’ll need to do Kegel several times a day for 8-12 weeks. Eat a healthy, low-fat diet to keep arteries clear and weight down. Check medications for sexual side effects…especially those for sexual performance anxiety and DDA [dangerous drugs of addiction]. Get proper sleep, and whatever you do, don’t smoke.

What is inhibited sexual desire?

Hi Funmi, what is inhibited sexual desire or loss of libido?

Ufom’s daddy

Inhibited desire or loss of libido refers to a decrease in desire for, or interest in sexual activity. Reduced libido can result from physical or psychological factors. It has been associated with low levels of the hormone testosterone. It also may be caused by psychological problems such as anxiety and depression; medical illnesses, such as diabetes and high blood pressure; certain medications, including some antidepressants; and relationship difficulties.

What is meant by a “healthy” sexual relationship?

What is meant by a “healthy” sexual relationship, can couples achieve this? We have been married for six years now; the only place we never agreed on is on the sex bed, please help.

Dollypop Chita

A healthy sexual relationship is different for every couple because every individual has different sexual needs. While the activities involved in each sexual relationship can vary widely, in general, “healthy” sex should encompass the following: Both partners should feel equally pleased with the activities, neither partner should feel forced into doing something they don’t want to do, the right to say “no” to sex at any time, for good tenable reason, mutual respect before and after sex, neither party suffers a loss of self-esteem, trust exists as well as openness about sexual history and current feelings.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.