Don’t fret if your friends appear to be gaining from sexual escapades! You will overtake even your mamas!
Dear Mama,

Many thanks for your latest post on facebook! I saw it at a time when I saw some of my friends who had “given out their virginity” doing very well and I felt really bad such that I had sleepless nights not because they are doing well but because it seems like giving it out makes them ahead of me. I have a passion for modelling and hope to be a beauty queen some day and use the crown to make maximum impact in the lives of people but it seems in this age, one has to either give sex or bribe your way to winning and it’s so frustrating. Sometimes, it just seems like everything is against me but I try to endure and I pray that my waiting and hard work will pay off. It’s really not easy to stay chaste in this generation where a 16-year-old is more enlightened about guys and sex than a 22-year-old. Love you mama!

Miss O. 22

Dear Apostle,

I thank God for your life and vision for this generation. I read your articles on facebook daily and send copies to teenagers especially those in my church. I got married at 30 as a virgin and it’s disheartening when I hear teens celebrating losing their pride. Thank you for speaking out the mind of God. In case you need volunteers for any of your school mission programmes, please contact me. May the grace of God upon you be multiplied. Amen.

Mrs. Adeniyi

Dear God,

I thank you so much for using me as one of your weapons to lead your daughters the way they should go and save them from being under the influence of the devil. I count it a huge privilege and the very best thing that happened to me; worth more than all the riches in the world. May your name be glorified in Jesus mighty name!

Dear Miss O.,

Sincerely, the first thought that comes to mind is “why would anyone choose stupid, bad, devil over God?” On the other hand, I understand the fact that your orientation, background, upbringing and ABOVE ALL personal conviction and relationship with God go a long way in determining your thoughts about life and your actions! We are also at a time when the devil has taken over the world and the hearts of most humans. We are all surrounded by these people. And unless God has your undivided and undistracted attention, you can’t help but feel the way you do! In fact, the devil will make you see every reason why you should start getting all you want using your body as a merchandise!

Good enough, you passed through the four walls of the university and graduated “intact”. You’re just stepping out into the real world, what’s the rush my love? And who says within the next two years, you won’t marry your dream man/your divinely-ordained partner who would make you happy and give you all the sex you want? What have these friends of yours achieved that no one in the world has achieved my sweet? What do they currently possess that you won’t have eventually have tons of it? When you load your life with all types of spirits and demons from diverse sex partners, you will always pay for it! Your life is open to demonic invasion and the devil doesn’t want you to live an optimal life and align with God’s divine agenda for you! Don’t you get it?

My dear, you need to grow emotionally, SPIRITUALLY! You need to believe more in yourself and your capabilities! You need to activate the power of God in you and destroy all discouraging feelings- I mean feelings that can get you confused and depressed. You need to concentrate more on God and let your imagination bring to you what your friends can never have even if they sleep with all the men in the world!

I’ll just encourage you to stay right on track by giving you a few tips.

Separate yourself from sexually-active unmarried friends

You can’t be hanging around sexually-active unmarried friends and not have the urge to jump on the band-wagon. You really need to take a firm decision about what you want out of life and avoid what will jeopardise it!

Your church/fellowship

You need to attend a church or fellowship which emphasises on holiness and the narrow way constantly bombarding you with scriptures and firing up your spirit and further pushing you to do things God’s way each time you attend service! Remember the word of God is described as a double-edged sword which penetrates even to dividing soul and spirit…Hebrews 4:12. This will go a very long way, believe me! It’s more powerful than you or ugly devil. Let it control you and you will be pleasantly amazed at what becomes of you and what comes to you!

To be continued.

Love Always,

Temilolu Okeowo

#HeadGirl

#MotherOfAMillionGirls

#ApostleOfChastity

#Generalissimo, CrushTheDevilGang!

#MayGod promoteSaturday Punch

I invite you to follow me on facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO (not Temilolu okeowo girls club or TEMILOLU OKEOWO Girls Club group).

Scam Alert: Temilolu okeowo girls club page and group as well as Temilolu cares for you are fake facebook accounts.

Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a Secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and State of domicile to 07086620576.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.