Create a healthy balance in your marriage & family
Elizabeth Badejo

Over the last couple of weeks, I have been harping on sacrifice in marriage as a couple and most importantly for the benefit of the children within the marriage. The feedbacks and comments from my ardent readers over these articles have been overwhelming. This is perhaps because they all understand the many challenges today’s parents have to contend with and why it is important to share our views so that we do not only see difficulties but also see possibilities and solutions too.

No one said it was ever going to be easy to stay married especially in this generation where men and women work equally to meet the domestic and financial needs of the family; it can certainly become difficult to create a healthy balance in your marriage.

There’s no right time

Someone asked me, ‘when is the right time to have children after marriage?’ And I simply said there is no right time as you must both be prepared for the life changes ahead and the many surprises too. Perhaps you decide to build a great career first or have children first; it’s all about getting the right balance and not feeling the pressure of your biological clock ticking or seeking unrealistic desires of having it all before the pitter-patter of tiny feet comes along.

The reality is that your heart might just end up broken if you do not create a healthy balance between your marriage and your responsibilities as parents, it’s not clear cut in any way, it is just a necessity that can set your lives and marriage on a good path.

Start right

Many couples who have been able to manage the dynamics of their family life started right from the foundation. When you see your marriage as a gamble, it becomes a game of chance when you are expecting a good or bad result; but when you are both optimistic and committed to a common goal, you will have a good marriage and nothing to gamble at.

A good marriage will produce well-balanced children, who have been equipped with good values replicated through their own parents. When you start on the right path, you will learn what works and what doesn’t and equip your marriage with the right values through the process of communication, love, tolerance, forgiveness and many more.

Invest in skills

The joy of balancing in your marriage and your role as parents is when you both understand the basic necessities that form good habits as a couple. Skills are great investments today; both social and intellectual skills are important assets in building positive mind-sets in individual lives. It’s important to empower your children with the skills they require to compete amongst their peers too; the investments you make today will become their driving force to fulfilling prosperous lives tomorrow.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]