16 ways to achieve regular lovemaking without traumatising the relationship (III)
Funmi Akingbade

And to many other husbands, the last time they had sex was many weeks or months ago, mainly because they don’t find their wives sexually attractive any longer, or they are in the grip of a mid-life emotional or motivational crisis (this happens to many husbands at the peak of 40 years old or thereabout.)

To some other husbands, their erections are unreliable and they have no idea why erection fails them at the very time of need. Many have complained that they noticed that they lose their erection during sex or when they put a condom on. All these make many husbands to abandon regular lovemaking or get to the point where they are avoiding sex altogether because their life is dominated by fear of losing their erection and ego.

Many husbands just don’t know how they feel about their wives or sex or women in general.

Fifteen … But I want to say that as many husbands that want to do more than just cure their erectile dysfunction and take their sex to the next level can do so by still going for a regular Kegel exercise and master Johnson sexual techniques. These two natural methods have proven beyond doubt the best cure for couples with some natural herbs that help heal damage of the penis fast.

Sixteen … The first one is the Masters-Johnson method. It was created by two American therapists, Dr. Master and Dr. Johnson. Experts have advised that it is better to involve an understanding partner in this process, even though it can be done alone. In simple terms, it involves using the hand to stimulate the male organ until a man is close to ejaculation, followed by a ‘special squeeze’ to stop ejaculation. Most times, this squeeze will lead to a partial loss of erection. This special squeeze is a simple process – it is done by using the hand to circle the head of the male organ and then squeeze. What this does is that it helps a man to become aware of the sensations that precede orgasm and helps him to control and delay his ejaculation. Masters and Johnson, the inventors of this method, reported that 98 per cent of couples who mastered this technique successfully got rid of premature ejaculation totally. If this is done consistently for some weeks, the man would discover that over time, he would last far longer than he is used to.

At this point, I would like to advise husbands who want to use this method to always make their wives a part of the process. I am saying this because, from experiences, I know that men do not like seeking their wife’s help when it comes to sexual problems. Their ego will simply not permit it. But this advice is necessary because Masters and Johnson is known to work better and faster when it is done by a partner than when it is done by the man alone. To avoid any form of ambiguity, a simple step-by-step will also be included at the end of this article.

The other technique is the one called Kegel exercise, which was created by Dr. Arnold Kegel in 1948. Interestingly, these exercises which are used to strengthen the pelvic floor muscles (also called the pubococcgeus or PC muscles) were created by Kegel for women. However, with time, pelvic muscle exercises were discovered to work for men who wanted to improve their control over their ejaculation.

Pelvic muscles are important to men because they control ejaculation: when they contract, they force semen to come out of the prostate gland.

They are the muscles that ‘pump’ when a man ejaculates. The irony is that although men spend a great time exercising other parts of their bodies, they are not aware of the need to exercise one of the most important muscles on their bodies. The greater irony is that one does not even need to sweat or use any equipment to exercise this muscle. On the average, men who do Kegel exercises report desired changes within three months.

To perform the Kegel well, a man has to locate his PC muscles first. Doing this is simple: wait until you have the urge to urinate, then, sit on a toilet seat and spread your legs. Start urinating, and then try to stop the flow. Your PC muscles are the muscles that you found yourself squeezing when you tried to stop urinating. It is also possible to carry out this test while standing, the only problem is that your anal muscles may play a more active role than usual when your legs are not kept apart. This may make it difficult for you to mistake your anal muscles. Then you can start the exercise proper. All you do is to act as if you are peeing, and then squeeze your PC muscles as if you want to stop peeing and maintain this position for like 10 seconds. Do not squeeze for more than ten seconds at any given time. Repeat this exercise nine or 10 times. If at any time you are unable to continue because you feel sore or fatigued (the exercise is always painless), then rest. The exercise can be done twice or thrice daily.

Master and Johnson Tips

Relax and make sure you are free from distractions. This is not a good time to try fixing your mind on non-sexual issues, in order not to ejaculate. Concentrate. You and your partner can engage in foreplay, for you to get aroused. Signal your partner when you are about to ejaculate. At that point, she should stop stimulating you and apply firm but gentle pressure at the point where the head meets the shaft of the male organ. The pressure can be applied for about 15 seconds. She should then let go and you can both rest for 30 seconds before repeating technique.

Kegel’s PC Exercise Tips

Urinate before the exercise and do not do the exercise while urinating. This is not advisable. However, you can use urination to locate the muscles as described in the main article. Squeeze your PC muscles as tightly as you can and hold them for like 10 seconds. Breathe while holding your squeezed muscles. Relax totally for 10 seconds (always make sure you spend 10 seconds, this is important). Squeeze only the PC muscles, if you find yourself squeezing hip, lower abdomen or other muscles, then you are only doing additional exercise. While this is not harmful, it may distract you from your goals. Repeat the process. You can do it up to 15 times. It is better to do a few exercises and with strong control than to do a lot with weak control. You can do it while sitting, lying down or even walking. It is painless and you do not even have to breathe heavily while doing it.

Questions and answers

I got my penis burnt

Funmi, I got my penis burnt and there are some blisters turning to wounds. I am afraid of the scar formation that may affect my erection.

I am used to bathing with hot water; it helps me to sleep better. Without bathing with hot water, I do not sleep soundly. My wife accidentally poured the hot water she prepared for me for bathing when I bumped into her accidentally. Now, it has been few days and I have been applying Vaseline but still notice some blisters. I am afraid it will lead to scars that may not allow full erection. What can I do?

Jonathan Korugo

So sorry about the incident but immediately you have a burn like that to any part of your body especially on organs where the skin is delicate, just immediately pour lots of flour on it and leave it for 10 minutes or thereabout. The reason is that flour has the ability to absorb heat and has strong antioxidant properties if applied within 10 to 20 minutes. But for now, keep applying the Vaseline with gauze for longer period of time even after it heals; this will help it heal better.

If you mistakenly swallow a fish bone, lick a pinch of salt and pull your ears while you cough out the fish bone.

I beg for sex under ‘heavy’ conditions

I am a married man with two kids. My marriage was just five years in March this year, but I am having a serious problem that is giving me heartbreak which I will want you to help me out.

Having sex, to me, is the most joyous thing that I dedicate my time to do satisfactorily because I love to explore and enjoy new sexual styles and techniques. But my wife really does not believe in such because she sees sucking, smooching, fingering as a dirty way of having sex. The most painful of all is that she has some set of rules at the peak of penetration which instantly kills my libido. At times, I would have to beg her to have sex with me even with conditions. To touch the part of my body during sex [especially my penis] is like touching someone with leprosy. Yet she blames me for her lack of interest in sex. I am contemplating satisfying my urges with our housemaid because I am fed up.

Simple Martins

Hi, Martins, two wrongs can never make a right; your next move will not solve the problem. It will not even satisfy your sexual craving or need and is not worth all your investment in your marriage. It is obvious you love your wife and want your sex like with her to be splendid. I would suggest you take out time to talk with her; you can even go for a couples retreat just to get away from distractions. I would advocate you try to understand her reasons for her behaviour; ask her to really tell you what she wants out of sex and be her friend. Understudy her temperament, background and view on other issues that are indirectly linked to her sexuality. She is definitely attracted to you sexually, find out her sexual attractions and let her also know she is hurting you. Be a friend to her, gain your way into her heart. A lady you can easily enter her heart will open up her legs for you all the time. You can even visit a sex therapist for more clarifications.

My wetness makes his penis slip out of me

I need some help. Anytime I have sex with my husband, he complains that I am too wet when he penetrates. What surprises me is that I might be dry but once he is inside me, the wetness will make his penis slip out of me. I don’t know what is wrong with me. He said I am not a regular lady; please what do you think?

Celestica

Celestica, you do not have unresolved problem. All you need to do is practise more of pelvic-floor exercise otherwise known as Kegel exercise. This is an exercise that strengthens and firms the muscles of the pelvic floor. The aftermath effect is that the exercise will also firm up your vaginal wall, the uterus, the bladder and the urethra. When this exercise is done properly, it will help your vagina to hold your husband’s penis firmly during thrusting in and out which invariably make sex very enjoyable.

To remain a virgin or not

Hi Funmi, I am a single girl and I want to just stay without sex until I am married, but my friends said that my vagina will become stiff and useless when I eventually get married. My question is this, if I do not have sex, does my vagina change at all?

Tutu Adekola, Abuja

Not in any major way, however, some married women notice that their vagina feels less flexible. When you have intercourse frequently, the tissues of your vagina expand because of its elasticity but if you are not having regular sex, your vaginal tissues constrict a bit so much that inserting a penis may be slightly more difficult. This is why some newly married women who have not been sexually active previously report feeling a pang of pain once they start having sex, though they may not be virgins. I do not think your decision is a bad one. All you have to do when married is to add some lubrication before intercourse; this would ease any discomfort.

Unexplainable pains

Sometimes I get a sharp pain in my lower belly during intercourse. Is it because my husband’s penis is on the big side?

Mariam from Makurdi

Relax and do not stress yourself. If these pelvic pangs occur mid-cycle, before ovulation, your ovaries may be slightly tender and having sex may press on them, causing a sharp pain. Deep thrusting may also cause pain. To be on the safe side, try moving your legs closer together during sex to keep your husband from going in too far, since you indicated that his penis is rather big. Nevertheless, if this pain strikes at other times of the month, it is advisable you see your gynaecologist. It could signal endometriosis or another serious condition, which has nothing to do with the size of your husband’s penis.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]