What’d you do if your spouse sold your car without your permission before you returned from a trip?
Angel George

It is a given that whatever a couple owns belongs to both parties and by mutual respect, whatever decision is taken on their property is well communicated between them. SATURDAY PUNCH decided to ask Nigerians what they would do if their spouse sold their car without their permission before they returned from a trip

Everything I own belongs to her – Stephen Adeshina

I want to believe that there must have been a sort of mutual agreement between both of us. But, if peradventure such an event occurs without my permission, I won’t do anything to her especially if she did it for a good reason. This reason must be life threatening. She is my wife and everything I owe belongs to her legally. I can’t kill her; it won’t bring the car back. My wife can’t sell a car because of aso ebi, she’s is not that type of a woman.

Her reason’ll determine my next line of action – Offiah Pascal

Well, if my wife sells off my car without my permission, I will not kill her. Of course, I will get angry but sending her out of my house would not solve it either. She will definitely have a valid reason for selling the car without seeking my permission. Her reasons will determine my next line of action and it had better be worth it.

It had better be for a good reason and price – Isaac Dickson

If my wife sells my car without my permission, it had better be for a good price and reason. Honestly, I will not be bothered because I can always find my way around without a private car until we sort the issue out. I will only be angry if she sold it for a little amount of money or for a reason that isn’t valid like a material thing.

The reason must be life-threatening – Lekan Oladipupo

If my wife sells my car without telling me, I am very sure the reason will be worth it. The reason could be life-threatening like her health or any other member of the family. Also, she must have tried reaching out to me without success, maybe due to bad reception and the only option left was to sell the car. If she sold it for no tangible reason, she will be restricted from anything I own.

She will not do anything to harm her family – Ehigie Isaac

Actually, what I will do depends on the reason why she sold the car in the first place. Of course I will be confused when I realise that my car is missing where I parked it. If her reason had to do with sorting medical bills of either herself or the children, even her extended family member or mine, I will see no big deal because she did it to save a life. She is my wife and I believe that she will not do anything to harm her family.

I will be surprised and disappointed – Gbemi Jumbo

At first, I will be surprised and disappointed because it simply means he has no respect for me at all. We are legally married and I expect him to carry me along in every decision he takes. If his reason for selling off my car isn’t tangible, he is going to return that money and get my car back in good shape. But if the reason for selling the car needed urgent attention then, we will work it out.

He will replace it with a better one – Busari Tosin

If my husband sells my car without my permission before I return from a trip, I will ask him why he sold it without waiting for me to get back. If the reason for selling it was worth it, I will let it go because it might be important than a material thing. But if he doesn’t give me a good reason, I will be extremely angry. He will have to replace it with a bigger and better one. Every day, I will sing it to his ears until he buys it back.

Fighting him will not solve anything – Elizabeth Ayodele

I will ask him why he sold the car and what he plans to do with the money. I am sure it is going to benefit both of us. I am sure he would have a valid reason or reasons for his action and if he doesn’t, I cannot fight my husband because of a car. When everything is settled, he will buy another. Fighting him or getting angry would not solve anything.

He could have taken a loan – Sikirat Azeez

I want to believe that he sold my car for a valid reason or else, he will have to return my car in good shape. The reason has to be a matter of life and death. He could have taken a loan or borrowed from someone rather than selling my car. And to make matters worse, without my permission. I will be angry at first but if the reason turns out to favour both of us, I will forgive him because I am sure he meant no harm.

I will report him to our families – Bola Enigbonjaiye

Although he is my husband, it is an offence under the law that a property that isn’t written in your name be sold without the owner’s consent. If he sold it for a very good reason that is life threatening, I will overlook it. But if he doesn’t have a good reason, I will report him to our families. I am sure they will have something to say and if they don’t, he will not have access to my property again.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]