16 ways to achieve regular lovemaking without traumatising the relationship (II)
Funmi Akingbade

In our early years of marriage, this scene was replayed several nights a week. We were both in our early-twenties with two children and a third on the way. We were both working long hours-he at a high-pressure job and me, in the hospital with different shifts combined with motherhood.

After supper, after we had finally put the kids in bed, the first thing on his weary mind was always the last thing on mine. When I tried to explain how tired I was, he would feel rejected and I would become angry. Then we would stay up half the night trying to reach a compromise, usually through a multi-toned discussion that always resulted in hurt feelings for both of us.

One fortunate night, worn from the toll that the frequent arguments were taking on our marriage, I asked him, “What if we schedule this thing?”

The suggestion took him by surprise. Can a married couple really schedule something as intimate as sex? ‘Surely that would take all the romance and passion out of it, I do not think I like that’ was his response. The more we talked about it, however, the more it sounded like a solution that would work for both of us for the time being. And when we put it into practice, we discovered what a great solution it really was.

Nine … If a deficit in physical, sensual and erotic affection is causing more tension than bliss in your home, try these painless tips for scheduling sex for the main time. For start, you both can pick a night or two. Decide together which nights are best, considering both your schedules and your children‘s. Most importantly, be realistic. At the time we devised our plan, for instance, I was mostly on night shifts and had to be at work by 7:30 every night. A mutual decision not to schedule sex on most evenings that I would be on night shift took the pressure off both of us, leaving us free to enjoy the evening and expected an erotic sexual trip the next seven nights of my off day. Waow! it really helped and we always had a swell sexual escapade. With this type of arrangements, I was not stressed about staying up late with an early morning looming over me, and he was not anxious about when I would ever be energetic enough for intimacy since it was already on the schedule.

Sometimes it may pay you both off if you stay on schedule. Whether you are running a business or running a household, fatigue is inevitable. While making a reservation helps take the guessing game out of sexual intimacy, chances are slim that you‘ll always be in the mood on scheduled nights. And if I may suggest, wives should help themselves get into the mood by creating loving thoughts towards their husbands or listening to special romantic songs to trigger some of the senses in their body. And when it has been a really tough day, a wife shouldn’t hesitate to call her husband at work and ask for a few hours to herself when he gets home, promising to make it worthwhile later. Because you pamper everyone else, give yourself some replenishing time to pamper yourself.

A word of caution: While scheduled intimacy may work well in reducing tension where your love life is concerned, it can sometimes cause lovemaking to become too predictable. So, it must not become the rule of the game. My husband and I have found that scheduling has its seasons in our marriage. We are currently in one of those scheduling seasons once in a while. But scheduled sex doesn’t have to turn into routine sex.

Couples should use the anticipation of scheduled sex to their advantage. Every marriage goes through seasons where spur-of-the-moment sex is low on the priority list. While spontaneity is refreshing, it isn’t a necessity. Scheduled intimacy won’t instantly solve all your sexual frequencies problems. Frustrations are sometimes inevitable, disagreements to be expected. Consequently, a sense of humour is imperative. But the beauty of scheduling is knowing how to pace yourself by taking cognisant of the fact that there will be one more thing on your ‘to do’ list before you turn in. But by working with your spouse to create a plan for regular scheduled sex, you can minimise marital tension and maximise marital intimacy.

Ten … As beautiful as scheduling sex could be, it has its own disadvantages and lots of them which if couples are not careful with, could endanger their sex life. But it has been recorded by sex therapists that when sex is more of a spur of the moment activity, it gives room for more passionate and explosive orgasm. A passionate explosive orgasm is very much needful in any marriage relationship because of its advantages and benefits to the union. In 1953, a well-known therapist defined orgasm as ‘an explosive discharge of neuromuscular tension which happens with both man and woman during sexual passion.’

Eleven … For a man or woman to experience a sizzling and burning orgasm, the heart pumps faster while the individual breathes heavily to fuel the muscles. Then, hormones such as endorphins and oxytocin send instant messages about this sexual activity to our brains and other sensitive parts of our bodies. In a jiffy, blood is pumped into our genital regions to create the tension that ultimately triggers a pudenda reflex (this is a muscular spasm of the genitals). The immediate reflex results in our pelvic-floor muscles, contracting between five and 15 times at 0.8-second intervals. This is the wonder of the orgasm that we experience!

Twelve … Amazingly, sexual therapists have made it clear that orgasm experience helps to burn out some amount of fat around the heart tissues and neural pathways in the spine. This explosive discharge of a neuromuscular tension is not only peculiar to the male gender, as it is also present in the female gender. The most prominent and sensitive female organ that could trigger orgasm anytime there is sexual activity is the clitoris. This organ is about two inches above the vaginal opening, located in front and above the opening of the urethra (urine outlet). The nerve supply that is in the clitoris is as much as the nerves supply that is in the penis if not more than. That is why this area should never be a neglected area by the husbands.

It is the most sexually sensitive part of the female reproductive organ; it becomes slightly enlarged and erect in response to sexual stimulation. This is called the female ‘sexual trigger.’ Most married women do not experience orgasm because their husbands hardly take quality time to lovingly and gently caress this organ during foreplay. Sufficient stimulation of this organ during foreplay produces the orgasm experience in nearly all women.

However, it should be noted that this must be done with utmost care as many husbands had, in the course of caressing the clitoris, inflicted untold pains on their wives. What is expected of such husbands is merely a feather touch caressing, or better still, using their tongue or hands to stimulate the organ, which produces orgasm within a twinkle of an eye. Unfortunately, in some parts of the African continent, this wonderful structure is usually removed or mutilated during female circumcision. However, in spite of the cutting off, other parts of the female body can easily compensate for this organ.

Thirteen … Many couples wonder why some women are finding it difficult to experience orgasm. The answers are not far-fetched. Apart from the fact that the organ had been mutilated, some husbands are not doing justice to it during foreplay or penetrative sex. As it is widely known, sex has many advantages. But regular orgasmic sex has much more. Not only does it help one’s confidence, self-esteem, vitality, strength and energy, it also has concrete health benefits. On the other hand, regular sex without orgasm, especially for a woman, may leave her unsatisfied and disinterested in sex. In fact, the reason why some women are so disinterested in sex is because they have not experienced the blissful release that comes with orgasm.

Fourteen … One of the things that traumatise a sexual relationship of many married couples is when the husband does everything in his power to secure normal erection but fails at it. I have seen the painful look in the face of many husbands when they relate with me their ordeal to me. And the repeated failure has made them conclude that they would rather stay off regular love making with their wives. Many of these husbands say that even a vivid sexual fantasy leaves their penis soft or the sight of their partner’s naked body doesn’t arouse them any longer. Many say the thought of sex (or contact with their partner’s naked body or sex organs) doesn’t get them hard any longer, or some say they thrust so hard and fast in fear of losing their erection – and invariably they still come too soon and lose it in a jiffy. Lots of husbands have not given good attention to their health and their erectile dysfunction has been traced to diabetes or other medical conditions. Others say their testosterone level is very low and their sex drive non-existent and of course, these have made many husbands to be angry, depressed, irritable or unhappy, anxious or frustrated and made them stay off sex.

Continued next week

Questions Answers

Help, my penis is twisted

Ever since I was born, my penis has had a twist along the length of the shaft. When it lies on my pubic mound, there’s almost a ninety-degree rotation between the head of the penis and the shaft, and I’m sure it’s getting worse as time goes by. Can you tell me what is wrong with my penis? I enclose a photo to help you understand my description.

Esau Whabimo

The orientation of the shaft of the penis is defined by the raphe, the line of skin which normally runs along the middle of the underside of the penis. Normally, this runs into the glans at the site of the frenulum. However, in the picture of your penis which you sent me, your raphe ends at the side of your glans. There is, as you say, a ninety-degree twist along the length of your penile shaft.

It’s also clear that your foreskin extends only halfway around the circumference of your penis, forming a hood rather than a complete cover over the end of your penis. All of this is rather characteristic of a condition called hypospadias, a congenital abnormality of the penis which varies in appearance from minor (where the opening in the glans is elongated into a slit, and the foreskin forms a hood around the top of the glans) to severe (where the urethral opening is only part way along the penile shaft). Hypospadias is often accompanied by this twist along the length of the shaft and/or a condition called chordee, where the glans of the penis is bent downwards towards the shaft, rather like it was nodding to the testicles!

In days gone by, many men with hypospadias were never diagnosed until they chanced upon the discovery that their penis was different from most other men’s – and although we might hope that today’s matters would be more enlightened, it’s probably true that there is still the same level of shame and ignorance around this condition as there has been in previous generations.

What can one do about it? Well, probably not much. The classic dilemma is whether or not to have the abnormality of the penis surgically corrected. However, competent surgery on hypospadias tends to be difficult, and if not really needed to enable the owner of a hypospadic penis to have sex, might be best avoided. In some cases, it can make matters much worse than they already are, especially if there is not much spare skin available to effect a repair. By the way, the need for such skin is an absolute contraindication to circumcision on any baby boy born with hypospadias.

Funmi, should I or should I not?

Funmi, I am a few weeks to my delivery and a friend advised me against taking Pitocin injection, that I will not be able to have a normal, good sex again because of the pain the Pitocin will cause in my vagina. So, I am contemplating a caesarian section even though I do not want it but she said it will help me maintain a good vagina for sex.

Comfort Ibibi

Hi, as much as I will not dissuade you against a caesarian section if that is your plan and because it helps you to maintain a good shape of your vagina, I would love to say that the Pitocin injection is not an enemy at all.

Pitocin injection actually helps patients in labour to have a better and faster vaginal delivery which happens when the uterus refuses to contract on its own. I have seen many situations where a patient’s adamant refusal of Pitocin actually resulted in the C-section that they were so desperately trying to avoid. The actual purpose of Pitocin is to avoid caesarean section, infection, and haemorrhage. The uterus is a giant muscle and in normal labour, the body produces a hormone called oxytocin that causes the uterus to rhythmically contract, pushing the baby down and out through the birth canal. Pitocin is a synthetic version of oxytocin given through an IV to make the uterus contract when the body is not making enough oxytocin on its own. Pitocin has three main purposes: to help induce labour, to help stall labour, and to treat/prevent profuse bleeding. Actually, when the water breaks before contractions start, there is a risk of infection which can be harmful to the mother and baby. Sometimes when natural labour does kick in promptly, Pitocin can be given. Research has shown that starting Pitocin soon after the bag of water breaks reduces the risk of infection and NICU admission significantly – without increasing risk of C-section. Pitocin is routinely used to reduce the bleeding after delivery. Pitocin, like any medication, can have side effects and can cause problems when used incorrectly. It definitely increases the labour pain but compared to the risk of caesarean section, Pitocin is still a better option.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]