When your spouse is not outgoing
When your spouse is socially awkward, or not as naturally sociable as you are, it could be a major issue. Here are a few tips to guide you when dealing with an unfriendly spouse

Educate yourself

According to www.succeedsocially.com, if your partner is antisocial, it’s only natural that you would be worried about it. Educating yourself will give you a better sense of where they’re coming from, and what is going on in their minds. Everyone is different, so going through general information may not give you an insight into every little thing your partner does or is going through, but it will help you a lot. If your partner is shy or an introvert, you can check out books and sites on that.

Talk to your spouse

Another way of understanding your spouse is to speak to them about their unsocial behaviour. By talking to him or her, it might bring you closer to them because your spouse will notice that you are worried about him or her. Keep an open mind, don’t be judgmental and really listen to them, you might be surprised to learn why they are unsocial. For example, you may think that your partner talks too much because they’re selfish and attention starved, but it could be because they get nervous and feel they have to fill every empty second.

Try to help them

This means accepting some of their behaviour by changing your attitude towards them. If it will help your partner become less unsocial, then don’t hesitate to do so. If your spouse is sometimes awkward at parties, find a way to respectfully and politely warn other people about him in advance, and tell them the best way to act around him. Although, social skills is something your partner mainly has to work on by his or herself, so the first thing you can do is just be supportive as they do that. Cheer on their little victories and milestones, be there to listen if they need to vent after a frustrating experience and show through your actions that you still love them despite the fact that they’re not socially perfect.

Talk to someone more experienced

Sometimes, talking to a person who has dealt with a similar situation will help you feel relieved because you have someone to talk to. Have a more open and straightforward discussion with the person; it will give you a sense of belonging. It will also help you talk about the frustrations you’re experiencing at your end, and some of your questions will be answered. And it will help you learn more effective ways to be supportive to your partner.

Compromise

You can compromise a little, if your partner just has a different social style than you. There’s no preference towards socialising that’s better or worse than another, so you’re not really in a position to insist that your partner changes his behaviour to meet your standards. However, if you’re both able to compromise, you may be able to work something out that’s a lot more mutually satisfying.

See a professional

If the situation becomes a lot difficult, then your partner has to seek professional help. He or she may be more open to talk with a neutral person. Counselling can also be a big help to the other partner to help him or her adjust. Your partner’s social difficulties may be a lot harder to tolerate if you are not in the best place in your relationship, his or her unsocial personality may just be the reason for your break up. If your relationship is improved, you will feel less pressure from the communication skills issue.

Don’t expect instant results

Even if your partner begins diligently working on their issues, you shouldn’t have unrealistic expectations for how fast the progress will come. It’s not a matter of them learning what they’ve been doing wrong and magically being able to adjust how they act. But, they need to slowly improve their skills and confidence. Don’t be too anxious for fast improvement but rather, be patient. Don’t feel that if your partner isn’t changing quickly it’s a sign that they don’t care enough about you to put in the effort, or that they’re even dragging their feet to spite you. This could be wrong because change is hard.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.