What would you do first if you won N50m in cash?
Angel George

People believe that whenever they win a certain amount of money, they will live a better and more comfortable life. Saturday Punch asked Nigerians what they would do first if they won N50m in cash

I will venture into agriculture – Olajiga Tobun

If I win such an amount of money in cash, I would buy a plot of land or more and venture strictly into agriculture. I would also start a block making business to support it. I have a lot of friends that are into these two businesses and it seems very lucrative. Everybody needs to eat and build houses and why not? In a country of more than 150m people, what do you expect? Agriculture is going to be the next major export for Nigeria.

I will invest in Treasury Bills – Kayode Ogunwo

The first thing I will do if I win N50m in cash is to start a transportation business and also a farming business but before all that comes to play, I will invest a large sum in Treasury Bills to yield more interest over a period of time. After doing business survey and SWOT analysis, I will start the plotting and activation of my business plan.

I will invest more in my business – Oladipupo Jubril

If I win such a huge amount of money in cash, I will invest more in my business and also go on a long vacation. I am into entertainment and media works, so winning such an amount will enable me to open a studio and also produce a movie even if it’s a short one. But I am definitely going on a holiday because I need to break free from work a little.

I have an agriculture investment plan – Adebola Adekoya

For me, I have an agriculture investment plan and winning such an amount of money will help me achieve my goals. The Federal Government is looking at generating $20bn in the next few years from yam exportation and I would love to be a part of that vision. I will give little to charity; get a piece of land in an area of my choice and invest in agriculture. I will invest in trucking of food crops interstate and intrastate.

I will invest more in my business – Oyedele Samuel

If I win N50m in cash, the first thing I will do aside paying my tithe and offering is to invest more in my business. I run a laptop store and winning such amount of money would enable me to invest more in it. I would be able to buy in larger quantity and sell to make more profits. The profits I make will benefit me and my family.

I will pay my tithes and offering – Uji Oluwafemi

The first thing I will do is pay my tithe and offering because without God, I would not be able to win such amount of money. Then, I will invest more in my business because I am into selling of shoes, bags, accessories and wears. I will buy shares and give little to charity also. Lastly, I will put some in a fixed account and it will definitely yield interest in the long run. My family will get to live a better life.

I will buy my mother a house – Jane Ogbodo

If I win N50m in cash, I will buy my mother a house because she has done a lot for me. It is going to be a form of appreciation. After I must have done that for her, I will start a business of my own. I will build a plaza and rent it out. Yearly, I will be making money from my landed property to support my family.

I will buy a house first – Opeyemi Ogunsakin

I will buy a house first and then invest more in my catering business. I will buy a bus that will keep my business going smoothly. The essence of buying a house first is because the place I am staying now doesn’t have enough space to keep my catering equipment and I don’t want complaints from my landlord. So basically, the money is meant for a house and also my business.

I will buy my mum an expensive gift – Adanna Nzekwe

The very first thing I am going to do is to buy my mom a very expensive gift. She loves wristwatches. Then I will invest in my dream business which is to own a clothing line. I have huge love for fashion and I will gladly invest in it. I also manage artistes and I have a couple of people working with me, winning such money will enable me to boost their careers.

I will resign from my job – Zainab Dumbuya

That’s a huge amount of money. If I win N50m, I will first resign from my job because I am tired of working 6am to 6pm daily. I will start my own business and become my own boss. I have worked with various companies and I have an idea and the ability to start my own firm even if it’s something small. I know that in the long run, it will yield great profit and become big. Then, I will take a short vacation with my husband.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.