16 ways to achieve regular lovemaking without traumatising the relationship
Funmi Akingbade

While intending couples were dating, stealing out to make time for sex is always on top of the list of almost all of them. They can go to any extent and length to make sure this is achieved. Sex can be done almost anywhere and anyhow and within any given second, all because they want to and can’t let go of one another. But as soon as most of these couples get married, sex becomes the least of all their priorities. Every other thing has taken the place of sex. Work load is on the increase, house chore is never ending, school runs are inevitable, making more money is a constant need to keep the family together. In short, these same couples are now very busy and there is no just enough room for sex any longer.

How can married couples have the best sex and still have it regularly? To be honest with you, this is the greatest challenge faced by many couples ever since they got married. Sometimes in order to justify themselves [ especially the wives] and not feel too guilty, many couples ask me: “How many times do you make love with your spouse in a week?” The usual response from most husbands is that they do it only twice or three times a week. Although married couples struggle to agree on a variety of issues, it seems that regular sex is one area in which they often give up trying to find a solution. Nearly always, one partner wants sex more than the other. And, contrary to conventional wisdom, it is not always the men who ask for more. Judging by the e-mails, calls and text messages I have so far received, there are just as many women as men who say they desire a more active sex life than their spouses.

One … If you and your mate are struggling in this area, try these 16 steps to improve sexual satisfaction for both of you. First, make sure you are both observing the same mutual view rules. Then approach the sexual aspect of your marriage in the context of your entire relationship.

The mutual view rules recognise a few overarching truths about sexual intimacy. You may begin by agreeing that God is the creator of sex and all its pleasures; that orgasm is not some evil post-fall addition to the process of procreation; and that it was God who decided that sex should be extraordinarily incredible, unbelievable and exceptional.

Quite frankly, words alone cannot express what level of enjoyment that the Almighty Creator had in mind. He is also the one who established certain parameters (namely, marriage) to protect and maximise the experience. If you are struggling with doubts about how much you should enjoy sex, exercise the freedom that God has already given you and enjoy it to your own limit. Now that you have said “I do,” it is time to explore the gift of pleasure with your spouse.

Two … You must agree to keep talking about it. Great sex begins with talking together in an open, trusting, accepting manner, and it is the only path to resolving the “how often is enough” question.

Three … You should agree not to assume anything about your mate. Many factors lie behind each person’s desire for more sex or less.

Do not assume that it is simply a male versus female inconsistency in desire or that you know what your spouse’s “problem” is.

Four … Also do not insist that your spouse must conform to your libido and timetable. On the flip side, do not assume your mate knows why you feel the way you do. You have to express your own feelings, preferences and concerns in a selfless manner.

Instead of assuming, commit yourself to understanding your spouse and to helping him or her understand you. That is part of your lifelong commitment to care for and treasure each other.

Five … Agree to consider possible outside barriers. Many men and women get married after they have had difficult experiences that may prevent them from fully enjoying God’s gift of sex. Sexual misinformation, promiscuity and sexual addiction leave memories that can make it hard, sometimes even impossible, to desire further sexual intimacy. If past experiences are affecting your sexual relationship, do not hesitate to seek assistance from a counsellor who has helped others with similar struggles.

Six … Now, once you and your spouse have a mutual agreement on the basic rules, turn your attention to one of the greatest destroyers of sexual intimacy: the separation of sex from the rest of your relationship. Do not try to solve your frequency problem by going straight to the question: “How many times should we ‘do it’ per week?” That would be discussing your sexual relationship in a vacuum. Great sex depends on factors such as in-depth communication, a sense of sharing your lives together, emotional intimacy and, especially, a solid commitment to your relationship.

The point I am stressing here is this: if you want improvements in the bedroom, put the rest of your house in order. To play on a common stereotype, let us say both Emeka and Bisi occupy the same home, but they cannot agree on which room should get the most attention. Bisi wants the entire house to be taken care of, so that it will look nice and operate efficiently. There should be no dirty clothes on the floor of their bedroom, no shoes scattered around the family room, no take-home office-papers stacked in a counter.

While Emeka thinks a neat house is fine, he is most concerned about his reading table in the study. Bisi views the table as one part of the whole house, just as he focuses most of his attention on it.

Emeka wants his wife to care as much about the table as he does. Bisi says she would try, but she wishes Emeka would be more involved in caring for the rest of the home. If he would do that, she would have a lot more energy to devote to the reading table. You can imagine her frustration when, the following week, she felt once again that the rest of the house was falling apart. She mentioned it to Emeka and all he could suggest was: “Let us talk about the condition of the reading table.”

What I am saying in essence is, if you are concerned about having more or better sex, you need first to invest care and attention in building your entire marriage. This is true for every couple. I am more receptive to discussing our sex life when my husband has been listening and responding to my concerns about how many hours I’m working or about an issue with one of our children.

Think back over the last week or two. Has your spouse shared a desire for you to talk more? Has your mate asked you to take greater care with the family house building project? Has he begun to spend more time with the children, to show affection without insisting on sex, to be home more, to help out around the house? How did you respond? It is good to remember that there is a lot more to a home than the worktable.

At the same time, do not underestimate the value of the worktable. Fervent, passionate, obsessive, fanatical and ever-to-be-remembered- intercourse is not to be reserved only for times when everything else in your relationship is perfect in your own way, when your spouse has done everything humanly possible to make you happy and every disagreement is resolved and forgotten. If those are your requirements, you‘ll end up with a sorry sad sex life.

Seven … Couples have to come to terms with the fact that sex is not a reward or a game and it is not something to withhold as a punishment. Sexual expression is central and important. Do not trivialise it or use it to manipulate your spouse to get what you want.

Eight … Now you and your spouse have agreed on the mutual view rules of sex, you have begun to clear away the barriers from the past. You are talking about sex with each other. And you are making a consistent effort to invest in your entire relationship, which will help your sex life flourish.

You are covering the basics, but you should also pay attention to two big sex-stealers, unrealistic dogmatic schedule and physical exhaustion. Women, especially, often feel too tired for lovemaking. If you can agree that improving your sex life and increasing its frequency are high priorities (and they should be), then establish an amalgamated front against busyness and reclaim the time you need for sex.

If you know that you alone have the power to give something that will make your spouse glad and fulfilled, why withhold it? God desires a mutually enjoyable sexual relationship for both of you, so do not waste any more time. Go ahead and make it happen. I want to buttress this by mentioning my own experience when my husband and I were still nursing our toddlers and working at the same time.

Most nights, when the children were finally in bed, the house was quiet, the lights were low-and I was exhausted. Nevertheless, I could tell by the vibes I was getting from my husband that sex was on his mind. Crawling into bed, I lay still, secretly hoping he should just doze off.

Continued next week

Questions and answers

Is having cyber-sex considered unhealthy?

Is having cyber-sex considered unhealthy — and does it constitute “cheating” on my husband, even if I never meet my cybersex or phone sex partner? Actually, I am a housewife; another housewife like me introduced me to this habit when I complained of boredom. She said her husband never really frowned at this habit of hers. She added that as long as my husband is not bothered about my cyber affairs, no harm is done, but I am not bold enough to even tell my husband. What do you think?

If you find yourself online trolling through sex sites, you’re not alone but you can get out of the wagon. Studies show that “sex” is the most frequently searched word online, and some 15 per cent of the million people who log on each day are visiting pornographic sites. For most, it starts as a harmless recreation. However, a recent study published in the journal Professional Psychology, found that the same set of people may fall victim of addiction and distorted sexual interest and end up spending quality of valuable time on these sites.

Those who spend 11 hours or more a week on Internet sex sites show clear signs of psychological distress, frequently admitting that their online sex pursuits interfere with other aspects of their life. These folks also run the risk of dependence with an ever-increasing need for more time devoted to cyber-sex. Putting such time and hours on some worthwhile activities can be a very good antidote.

As to the cheating aspect, most sex therapists and experts consider having any type of sexual activity outside your relationship is wrong. However, all experts agree that when cybersex replaces or interferes with intimate human relationships, then it represents a problem much bigger than “cheating.” Also, be aware that frequently cybersex escalates to “real” sex. You may be pushed off limit and want to experiment with the professional partner and go overboard.

Our finance affecting our sex life

My husband and I have joint bank accounts. This did not alarm me initially, because we agreed that we should combine our finances. But now, I make more money than him and when it is time for both of us to pay for any purchased item, his attitude is of great concern to me. He spends money anyhow and I am not very comfortable with this. This has killed our sex desire for each other. As a matter of fact, my husband’s hyper active libido is news around with every other girl rather than with me. Should I just accept things as they are or keep trying to combine our money?

Hope you are not making it so obvious that he who pays the piper calls the tune? Husbands are laymen psychologists; the man may be poor but most of our husbands read in-between the lines. So kindly ask for wisdom on how to handle this dicey issue. Then, also in most cases, one person will handle the bills and keep track of the finances. If you two are paying separate bills and expenses, it is easy to lose control of your spending as well and blame the other person. It becomes a control issue. Maybe ultimately, that is what this is really about. The best remedy is to set up three checking accounts. Even first is the main account to pay all the household bills. Determine how much each of you will deposit in this account. E when his own contribution is a kobo, let him put something down. The other two accounts are the ones you are currently using. Instead of paying bills with those accounts, use them for miscellaneous items you spend money on. Make sure you keep enough money in them so you do not have to dip into your joint household account.

If your husband procrastinates on opening the main account, then you take the initiative; go to your bank and begin the process. Then make a list of all the bills you will pay through this account; do all you can to get the support of your husband because success in life requires being smartly responsible.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.