If you were in a financial distress and found a bag containing N20m with owner’s contact, what would you do?
When a misplaced item is found, those who found it are expected to return it to the owner, especially when it has an owner’s identity attached to it. SATURDAY PUNCH asked Nigerians what they would do if they were in a financial distress and found a bag containing N20m with the owner’s contact

I will call the owner and hand it over

Oso Taiwo

It is a simple thing for me. I would simply call the owner and hand it over to him or her. The money is not mine, so why should I derive joy in another man’s sadness? If God would not help, nothing or no one would help; it would all end in vanity.

What does not belong to me won’t serve any purpose

Monsurat Akintoye

No matter what, I would return it to the owner. As far as the owner’s contact is on it, I will return it because it is not my money. Even if I am going through financial distress, it doesn’t mean I should take what does not belong to me; that would be stealing. Whatever the case might be, I would be hopeful till I get out of the financial distress. What does not belong to me won’t serve me any purpose.

The money can change my life

Bababunmi Emmanuel

I will take N10m out of it and keep the remaining money somewhere. I will call the owner to come and pick up the money from where I kept it to ease the stress of the person who lost the money because he or she might be in a big problem. The money can change my life if I invest in the right way, I can make multiple of that. And later, I would make the right restitution by returning the money I took to the contact.

That is not the only way God blesses someone

Ajayi Ifeoluwa

Well, I will definitely return the money to the owner. I will do just that since the owner’s contact is available. It would have been different if there was no contact; anyone can claim it especially if there’s no proof of ownership. It is wrong keeping it even if I am in financial distress; that is not the only way God blesses someone.

Integrity is important to me

Peter Nwoko

I will contact the owner and give it back because I believe that is the right thing to do. Integrity is important to me, what is not mine and isn’t given to me isn’t mine to take. Also, returning it might be my way out of the financial distress. I am not returning it because I expect something in return but because it will be the right thing to do, no matter how tempting it will be not to return it. It is hard, but I will try.

I cannot keep what isn’t mine

Toyosi Akeju

That is a huge amount of money. Although, it’s going to be difficult, I will give it back to the owner. I will contact the owner and give it back because I cannot keep what isn’t mine. The owner of the money might even decide to help me out of the financial distress I might be going through.

The owner may help me out in return

Olanrewaju Olamide

I will call the owner of the money and I might be lucky that he/she offers to help me out because of the help I rendered. If I should take the money all because I am in financial distress, the owner also might be in a bigger problem too. So, I have to think from both perspectives. So taking the money to solve my issue doesn’t mean another issue won’t come up; even something worse because it’s like killing someone’s joy to make oneself happy.

That would be stealing

Folashade Akerele

I will definitely return it because it isn’t mine and that would be stealing. If the owner is a generous person, he or she would want to know little things about me and I will use the opportunity to tell him or her that I’m in some form of financial distress and need help. If the owner doesn’t help me, I might not help another person again.

I believe in law of karma

Adetunji Babawale

Well, that is actually a huge sum of money but if I come across such amount of money with owner’s contact, I will definitely give it back. I didn’t believe in the law of karma until I saw it happen. Being honest in life really does make good karma come to you. It will be difficult but I will give it back.

I will invest the money first

Oguns Oluwatosin

If I find such amount of money with the owner’s contact, I will not return it. I will take it as God’s answer to my needs. I will keep it and use it wisely. I will later return it to the owner after I might have made profit out of it. I will invest the money.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]