My husband is good, loyal, loving —Wife whose toes, fingers were hacked for seeking divorce
A wife whose two fingers and toes were hacked by her husband for asking for a divorce has told a court that her assailant was a good, loyal husband and a loving father.

She added that she had forgiven him for the sake of their children.

The courts would have none of that, though.

Forty-five-year-old Tiperia Afamiliona, in a Victim Impact Statement sent to a court in Sydney, Australia, in which she wrote, “For myself, I have forgiven him so I can move forward. This does not mean it is okay.”

Tiperia’s 50-year-old husband, Atinae Afamiliona was, however, sentenced to nine-year imprisonment and would be granted a parole after serving six years.

Atinae attacked his wife with a machete on the corner of Raby and Campbel ltown roads in Western Sydney on August 29 last year, The SUN reports.

The couple were driving home when they began discussing their relationship and Tiperia suggested that they separate. The husband, in rage, pulled a machete from under the car seat and began attacking his wife.

He struck her at least 10 times, hacking at her arms and hands, which she raised to protect herself. When Tiperia managed to crawl under their car in a bid to escape him, he continued hacking at her exposed legs.

Acting Judge Grogin branded the violence “a brutal, unprovoked, unabated, unrelenting, vicious attack on the victim who, at the time, was trying to protect herself and trying to escape the perpetrator by crawling under the car.”

At an earlier hearing, Tiperia wrote a letter supporting her husband and asking for leniency on behalf of herself and their three children.

She wrote: “I have also come to terms and accepted that I too played my part in the unfolding of this unfortunate nightmare.

“My husband is a good man. He is a loyal man. He is a loving father and husband who has always provided for his family.”

Ms Afamiliona’s support for her husband, however, was more reserved in her Victim Impact Statement which was tendered on Thursday.

“Before this happened, I was a very independent woman … Whenever I go out, I hide my hands so no one can see. I see my scars every day and that makes me feel angry …”

She said the attack had divided her family and she now feels alone and sad.

Acting Judge Grogin said Atinae’s history of domestic violence showed his “willingness to flout the law.” Atinae had three previous domestic violence offences on his record.

“These offences were slapping a five-year-old girl across the face and dragging her by her ponytail, throwing a beer bottle at his wife and threatening her with a knife and breaching an Apprehended Violence Order by going to his wife’s home against court orders.”

With regard to Mrs. Afamiliona’s decision to forgive her husband, Acting Judge Grogin quoted the Court of Criminal Appeal Judgement of R v Glen which argued against giving leniency to a domestic violence offender if the victim forgives them.

“The court must send a signal to domestic violence offenders that, regardless of self-interest denying forgiveness on the part of their victims, those victims will nevertheless receive the full protection of the law.”

Acting Judge Grogin said domestic violence was inexcusable. “Family members of all ages should feel safe and free from harm in their own home,” he ruled.

Afamiliona will be eligible for parole on August 29, 2022.

See photos of the couple: