For three years, man stalks wife on Pinterest to know the gifts she loves
A love-struck man has earned his wife’s pass mark for his uncommon ability to give her the best gifts on each occasion that warrants one.

In a recent tweet, the loving husband, 29-year-old Jordan Lebeau from New Jersey in the United States, reveals that he has always mysteriously bought his wife, 25-year-old TyAnna, exactly what she wants for her birthday year after year.

And though she has never had idea how he successfully achieves that uncommon feat, it turned out that Lebeau has been secretly following his wife’s Pinterest account to find her the perfect gifts.

How did he do that without the wife’s knowledge?

Well, Lebeau tweets via his Twitter handle Jay from Boston, “I have a secret account that follows my wife’s.”

“She has no clue how I always get her what she wants,” Lebeau says of his wife of five months, having married in March this year, as revealed by Cosmopolitan magazine.

A leading art, design and photography community for creative people, Bored Panda, adds that Lebeau started the fake account back in 2014 almost immediately the pair started dating.

When Valentine’s Day came along, he had no idea what to buy her until a friend suggested taking a peek at his wife’s Pinterest page.

“Thus began years of taking sneaky looks at her page, dazzling her with earrings, lip glosses and a sapphire nose ring inspired by her posts,” the site reports.

The tweet has since generated social media interests.

See the tweets:

Funniest part: you know how hard it is to buy gifts for a woman you give everything? This is NECESSARY lmao — Jay from Boston (@CapricornKing_) July 29, 2017

I have a secret account that follows my wife’s. She has no clue how I always get her what she wants. https://t.co/jfdaKpPe7B — Jay from Boston (@CapricornKing_) July 29, 2017

I did NOT expect this to be a big deal. I only did it cuz my wife’s picky lol. I’m not #goals I ain’t folded laundry I washed 4 days ago smh https://t.co/UKlwA3guRW — Jay from Boston (@CapricornKing_) July 29, 2017

As my mother says:

With a woman, you can be right, or you can be happy https://t.co/2TWamHFkCq — Jay from Boston (@CapricornKing_) July 29, 2017