Ten more than mere bedroom affairs benefits
Funmi Akingbade

[email protected]

08096762941

08029593116

The today sex, from every angle, is really more than just a bedroom affair experience. The sex that creates a lingering memory is not the one where a couple would have to turn off the light so that the other partner would not see the other spouse’s nakedness. It is far from the sex that is done in a clumsy, hurried and painful manner. It is not just the type of sex that only the man gets satisfaction. It is also far from the two to five minutes sex, which leaves the wife hanging up there or leaves the man regretting why he never lasts longer.

When couples understand this truth and put to practice most of the things they have learnt from this column, I can say that such couple would begin to see the positive side effect of their sexual relationship both in their emotional and physical bodies.

The reason is that couple’s sexuality does not only add to their sexual pleasure but enhances their health, lives and general living.

So, today, we are going to look into 10 reasons why sex is just more than mere bedroom affair.

Firstly; whenever any of the spouses is in the mood for sex, do you know that such partner is indirectly boosting his or her immune system or maintaining a healthy weight? Yes, good sex offers those health benefits and more, because we are vital, sexual creatures. Sex does the body good in a number of ways; the benefits aren’t just subjective or hearsay but backed by scientific scrutiny.

Secondly, good sexual health may mean better physical health. Having sex once or twice a week has been linked to high levels of antibodies which can protect spouses from getting colds and other infections. While some older couples may worry that the efforts expended during sex could cause a stroke, scientists found frequency of sex was not associated with stroke, instead, sex lowers blood pressure. Having sex twice or more a week reduces the risk of fatal heart attack by half.

Thirdly, having sex and orgasms simultaneously, increases levels of the hormone oxytocin, which is called the love hormone. This helps bind couples and intensifies more or serial orgasms together.

Fourthly, for many husbands that complain that their wives never reach orgasm, hear this – just mere positioning some pillows or using pillows under your wife’s buttocks before you get going in missionary position makes many wives climax more intensely and faster. This is due to the fact that many women, after one or two or three normal vaginal delivery, lose sensitivity in the vaginal area (especially the outer part of the vaginal, which is the part that has more sensual nerves for sensation) due to the over-stretching of the vaginal muscles, while they are pushing for the baby to come out. The loss of sensitivity is more pronounced in wives who usually give birth to big babies. But when pillows are directly under the buttocks for support, the elevated buttocks help the husband to get to thrust in and out effectively and hit the anterior area of the base of the clitoris more than he would have done when the buttock is not highly elevated. This is also very useful for women who are less endowed with a big buttock. This also helps the husband to really know when his wife is climaxing or getting to the peak of orgasm; the husband will easily feel that his wife is squeezing, releasing her PC muscles and simultaneously contracting her vaginal muscles. And as this is happening, she is actually reaching her climatic level of orgasm. I always encourage that whenever the husband notices this, he should gently intensify the thrusting but deepen the manner because she would love it so much!

Fifthly, researchers evaluated few premenopausal and menopausal women before and after warm contact with their husbands ending with hugs, affections, foreplay and romantic sex. They found that the more contact, the higher the oxytocin levels despite the fact that they are in their premenopausal or menopausal stage.

Whenever couples complain of headaches, aches all over the body, some degree of inflammation, some unexplainable pains of no origin, I usually encourage them to first of all, have a good cold bath and then have sex like two or three times in a row because sex is also a pain reliever. What actually happens is that, during active and lively sex, some chemical reactions take place. For instance, as the oxytocin hormone surges, the endorphins level in both individuals increases, and as it increases, pain naturally decreases. These chemicals’ end product is to calm down pains – from a minor headache to arthritis or migraines – and with no secondary effects. Many of my clients with horrible migraines were cured just by encouraging them to have good sex together especially after a very good bath. I mostly encourage husband and wife to bath together before having such sex to cure any pain. This is because the cool effect of the cold bath accelerates the productions of all these chemicals to interplay effectively.

So, if you are always complaining of headache, arthritis pain, ovulation pain or PMS symptom, a sure natural pill with no side effect and no financial constraint is sex. Migraines also disappear because the pressure in the brain’s blood vessels is lowered while we have sex. Now, we see actually, a woman’s ‘headache’ is rather a good reason to have sex and not an excuse not to have sex.

Sixthly; high oxytocin levels make anyone sleep better. Sex helps anyone to sleep better because the oxytocin released during orgasm also promotes sleep, according to research. And getting enough sleep has been linked with a host of other good things, such as maintaining a healthy weight and blood pressure, and all round good health.

Seventhly; vigorous and regular sex strengthens the floor muscles of the woman. To a large extent, a good sex helps to strengthen the effect and result of Kegels exercise most women and men practice. Whenever good sex is combined with regular Kegel exercise, most wives always confide in me that they notice a quicker change on the walls of their vagina. And also, many husbands tell me that their sexual performances are better than what it used to be.

Also, when married lovers combine regular sex with Kegel exercise, they will enjoy more pleasure and the vaginal wall of the woman will also get more strengthened in the pelvic region, which will also help to minimise the risk of urine incontinence later in life, and also help in future vaginal delivery by reducing the hours of labour and contraction. To do a basic Kegel exercise, all a woman has to do is tighten the muscles of her pelvic floor as if she is trying to stop the flow of urine. Count to three, then release. Do this as often as you can.

Eightly; sex reduces prostate cancer risk. Frequent ejaculations may reduce the risk of prostate cancer later in life. Boosting self-esteem was one reason people have sex but overweight men with increased waist line are more likely to have poor semen quality. If you happen to fall within this category, remember that sex is a good workout. If you want to burn more calories, have more sex.

Ninthly; knowing how to suck your wife’s breast can increase her arousal, cause her to reach orgasm and prevent breast cancer. But scientists say until breast sucking is done in an erotic manner, some hormones that fight against cancer may not be released. So, while starting off, use your hands to lightly outline the outer part of both breasts slowly. This will help her nipples to become erect. Use your lips to kiss around the outskirts of the breasts. Start kissing the outline with your moist lips slowly. Then lightly squeeze those breasts together and kiss down the middle. Make your way close to each nipple and lightly blow on them. Take each nipple into your mouth and suck them. If her nipples are erect, you can harden your tongue and flick it back and forth, and slowly take it into your mouth, at which point you will begin to suck and nibble simultaneously. But if her nipples are not hard, you can usually manipulate each one by sucking it and then releasing it from your mouth. If you can’t suck both together at the same time, suck one nipple, and lightly pinch the other with your thumb and index finger seductively.

Tenthly; researchers estimated that spouses’ healthy sexual fantasies assist the body’s muscular and cardiovascular system to function healthier and better. An erotic fantasy is a product of the imagination that arouses a sexual emotion. Fantasies are often summed up as erotic scenes, seen or imagined, which we enjoy replaying in our heads. Also, a fantasy can be an idea, an impression or a feeling. Sexual fantasies are in direct contact with our psyche and therefore, have such power of arousal. They represent the fulfilment of subconscious sexual desires, through psychic processes. Erotic fantasies are created from scenes seen or experienced during adolescence or later in adult years and when channelled in a healthy way, enhance the better function of the heart muscle and the general body muscular system. In fact, it can also aid a pregnant woman in child birth labour to have a faster delivery because it has an indirect effect on the vaginal wall, by allowing the vaginal smooth muscles to relax fast and expand better. Until I come your way next time, I still remain your loyal one and only bedroom instructor, have a sex filled and fulfilled weekend.

Questions and Answers

My husband has an annoyingly low big hanging scrotum that gets in the way during sex

I got married three days ago and still in my honeymoon but I observed that my husband has low big hanging scrotum that gets in the way during sex; it makes love making ugly and so clumsy. What are the best positions for us? Secondly, I want to know if shoe size correlates to penis size. I was a bit embarrassed with the look of his penis; it is small and it curves sideway, but I thought it would be as good looking as his feet were. Thirdly should I always pee after sex, even if I do not want to do such, is it compulsory?

Geraldine Samba

Hi, my dear when you hear the saying, ‘marriage is for better for worse,’ it also includes accepting many annoying features in your spouse’s body that may likely irritate you because such features are part of him and parts of who you got married to! Deliberately, being happy and creating a happy married life and having the best honeymoon, is what you need now and not any complaint at all. So my dear, why not try girl-on-top and doggie style positions? Such will take care of the hanging big balls; besides it is another ‘warm toy’ you can erotically play with while thrusting in and out is going on. Shoe size does not link to penis size, neither does hand size nor his height, I think the curvature of his penis should not be a cause for alarm so far the penis is put to a good use and can ‘display, deliver and discharge’. As I said earlier, medical science is always doing their best to improve on challenges facing humanity. The recently discovered Chinese herb for men with small penis has recently taken the shame off the faces of such men. Lastly, it’s good to pee after sex as it flushes out bacteria and helps prevent a urinary tract infection, especially when you are new at sexual activities and you are not too sure of your spouse’s STDs status.

I have lots of questions bottled up within me

I am a mother of three children struggling to keep my work and marriage, but I have lots of questions bottled up within me. Firstly, I want to know why there is so much emphasis on women sex life. I have tried so many times to satisfy my husband sexually but his eye is on those call girls. I have asked him if I am not doing well sexually. His answer is that it is the devil, what do I do? Secondly, sex is a wide subject and in our society of yesterday, discussing sex was a taboo. Most women found it difficult to discuss sex because they would be labelled promiscuous, how can we bridge the gap? For instance, you told us to use different styles while having sex, don’t you think that will make our husband think we are corrupt since some of them cannot read? If a wife is sexually active as you encourage, don’t you think it could be dangerous to the traditionally minded man who could think his wife will cheat on him? For instance, whenever I scream during sex, my husband gets irritated. Lastly, thirdly, is it true that a particular tribe enjoys sex more than others do?

Mrs. Camelia Cece

I can identify with your struggles but I want you to know that there is always a way out. More sexual demands are placed on the women because gender-wise, they have subtle sexual drive. Then after marriage, women are the ones that tend to ignore and take sex for granted more than the men. All the same, sex in marriage is a KEY thing that must be improved on daily. For your husband, keep loving him, pray for him, sexually satisfy him and he will change. Secondly, I think this column has taken the stigma out of talking and learning about sex, all you need to do is whenever you come across any article that relates to your needs strategically place the newspaper where your husband can read it, then take issues up from there.

Does this concern church leaders?

Does all this teaching apply to our spiritual leaders who most times wait on God for revelation? Also, is it proper to have sex before going to the service, will the presence of God be felt in such service?

Concerned church member

All sexual teachings apply to everyone regardless of their spiritual status; spiritual leaders are flesh and blood; their makeup constituency is the same as every other creature. There is no crime if a spiritual leader has a passionate, tantalising, enticing, erotic and far and beyond experiential sex before going for spiritual service, this does not in any form hinder the presence of God, instead it brings down God’s glory like never before.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]