What would you do if you discovered your spouse had a loaded gun without your knowledge?
When couples live together, it is a given that they are as open as possible regarding everything kept in the house. But Saturday Punch asked Nigerians what they would do if they discovered that their spouse kept a loaded gun at home without their knowledge

I will say my last prayers

Akinkunmi Williams

If I find out that my wife has a loaded gun in our home and she never told me about it, I am going to say my last prayer. I do not see any reason why she would have a gun in our home in the first place. She cannot tell me she got it for protection because I am supposed to protect her here on earth besides God in heaven. She has no right to possess a weapon without my knowledge.

I will start monitoring his moves

Owolabi Olamide

I will definitely ask him first the reason why he owns a gun without me knowing about it and even had to keep it in the house. I will be scared but I would have to be watching his every movement from that day. Of course, I will inform people close to us to let them know what I saw just in case if anything should happen to me, because men can be dangerous even if he did not purchase the gun primarily to hurt me.

I will inform the security agency

Akinluyi Adeyinka

If I find a loaded gun owned by my wife in our home, I will definitely make a quick report to the security agency because I think it is certainly wrong not to inform me that she is armed. I believe that it is not proper. She has to give me a reasonable answer for having a loaded gun in our home without my knowledge.

He has lots of questions to answer

Nwagbaoso Ijeoma

I would be scared at first to find out a thing like that in our home. But I would pick up courage to ask him where he got the gun from and what he is using it for or what he planned to use it for. I do not see reason why he should have a gun loaded since he is not in the military force. He is my husband, I do not see any reason why I should not know that he has such a thing at home because when he is in trouble, I am also in it too. He has lot of questions to answer.

I would be scared for my life

Ayoola Adefisoye

The first question I will ask her is what she is using it for. And whatever her answer comes out to be, I will not buy the idea because she is not a military personnel. Even if she is an undercover agent, she should not keep it private from me as her husband. I would be extremely scared for my life.

I will report him to our families

Modupeola Olaniyan

I will definitely be scared. I would first ask him where he got it from and for what reason because there will definitely be a reason for keeping it in our home without telling me. He cannot tell me it is for protection because if it was, he would not hide it from me because he obviously hid it. I will report him to his family and mine before any other form of action is taken.

I would not make the mistake of reporting her to the police

Ogonnaya Joseph

The first thing I would do is to approach her and sit her down to know why the gun is in her possession and then I would take it away from her. Maybe I am the one God can use to save her since I am her husband. I would not make the mistake of reporting her to the police because she is my wife. We would work things out and help her feel safe to be able to tell me anything.

I will report him to the police

Laura Amantem

First, I would ask him what he is doing with a loaded gun in our home which is of great risk to our kids. His response to my question determines my next step of action. If he tells me that it is not my business, I will report him to the police because he must be up to something bad and if not the police, maybe someone close to him who can make him confess what he is doing with it. He is not a military personnel and he has no reason to have a gun whether loaded or not.

I will leave the house for her

Damilare Ayodeji

I will give her some space in the house, meaning I will leave the house for her immediately. My wife is not in the military, what will she be doing with a loaded gun and to worsen it, she never told me. I am not coming back to live with her until she explains over the phone what she is doing with a gun in our home. In a situation like this, safety comes first. Maybe her friends have been feeding her with false news and she didn’t bother to ask me about it first. She might be up to something.

It depends on our level of trust

Adewumi Titilayo

Firstly, it depends on the level of trust we both have for each other in our marriage. I will simply ask him how he came about a loaded gun and the main reason for having it because everything is not always as it seems. He has to give me a reason because I am ready to listen to whatever excuse he has. Even the greatest liars always have an excuse. If his excuse or explanation is not valid, I will have to get our family members involved.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]