New facts about sexuality couples must watch out for (II)
Funmi Akingbade

Last week, we started our two-part series of the 18 new basic facts about sexuality that couples need to watch out for. Today, we complete the series. Enjoy.

Nine: This is good news for husbands suffering from premature ejaculation, weak ejaculation, weak erection and other forms of erectile dysfunction that are not as a result of low libido or low production of testosterone. Do you know that using two condoms together gives you twice erection and ejaculation empowerment? This is because when you wear two condoms together at the same time, it helps to strengthen the tissues of the penis and helps the nerves of the penis to lose sensitivities. The condoms will deaden the nerves momentarily for the period you wear them. This invariably helps to sustain an erection for more than the usual time of ejaculation. This is typically one way of curbing premature ejaculation or weak erection or quick ejaculation. But if this fails to work, I encourage husbands with any form of erectile dysfunction to get the 36-hours-of freedom. This has worked wonders for many couples’ sexual life and has put great smiles on the faces of most husbands. However, it does not protect against sexually transmitted disease or yeast infection. Doubling up won’t double your protection. It does not however increase the husband’s sexual pleasure. Double-bagging with two male condoms, especially when not properly worn, can cause friction between them and increase the chances of breaking.

Ten: When or if used right, condoms are very effective. They have a great track record when used correctly. But, factoring in human error, they are typically about 85 per cent effective.

Eleven: However, let me give the married spouses the best tips to put on a good condom. If it doesn’t have a reservoir tip, gently pinch the tip of the condom as you roll it on. That way, you can leave a little space between the tip of the penis and the end of the condom. This will catch the semen. Don’t pull it all the way snug on the tip. Also, be careful during withdrawal and when you take the condom off. You don’t want the condom to slip off and semen spill out. Remember, condoms are more likely to break when they’ve been exposed to air, heat, and light for a long time. A cool, dry storage place where they won’t get folded is ideal place to store them. Please, many condoms are highly poisonous; kindly check the expiration date on the wrapper before you use them. Most condoms are good for three to five years. If a condom is dry, sticky, or stiff when you take it out of the package, get a new one. The best way to open a condom is to gently use your hands. I know this is easier said than done. However, in spite of being in the heat of the moment, resist ripping the wrapper with a sharp scissors; this could tear it and get it perforated. Don’t tear it open with the tip of your fingernails; the tip of the finger carries lots and lots of germs that can easily sips into the condoms and get either of you infected. So, be sure to unwrap it carefully.

Twelve: Naturally, it has been assumed that husbands want sex more but according to research, this is not true. However, typically, men think about sex more and will go out of their ways to get sex more often than wives. However, most women nowadays express sexual desires more than most husbands due to the ever-increasing explosion and liberation. Woman’s sex drive or ability to enjoy sex or be aroused has been on the spotlight over a decade now and it is gaining more and more popularity.

Thirteen: Research recently posted that many of the areas or part of the wives’ body that many husbands bypassed and labelled as a boring part during foreplay and sex are actually the subtle sexual zones. And these seemingly boring body parts should be more focused on and when focused on, especially when you’re canoodling together, reveals some hidden desire in the wives. Exploring these body parts and touching on unexpected erogenous zones can bring a lot of playfulness into the couple’s sex life. An example is the inner wrist of the wife’s hand. Because we’re not used to being touched there, the wrist, especially the inside of the wrist, can be an exciting spot. It’s got a lot of nerve endings. It’s right at that pulse point, and it’s that first stage of where our body starts becoming more intimate. So, husbands are advised to touch gently at first, allowing your wife to connect with the fact that you’re touching her sensually. Husbands often rush stimulation but taking a second and making eye contact can go a long way towards creating a mood.

Fourteen: Have you ever thought that the neck can make your wife moan for more and fall in to your seduction? Most wives rank the nape of the neck above the breasts and nipples as an erogenous zone. It’s such a sexy place because it’s such a vulnerable place. If husbands combine touching the lips, the breasts with the neck together, it’s quite a huge turn-on for lots of wives. When this is to be done, I suggest starting with the side of the neck, kissing or brushing it gently with one of your fingers while the other hand is on the nipple of the breast and the fingers are roaming the nipples and the breast gently and deeply.

Fifteen: One of the physical features and structures of women that easily catch the attention of the man is the buttocks. It attracts men’s attention from the way it moves on and on while the woman is walking and that is why many men love to have a wife with some big buttocks. Now these same buttocks are pretty high up there when it comes to erogenous potential. But because it mostly ignored, the benefit is mostly lost but when it is being caressed softly and long enough, it is a boom.

Sixteen: The scalp of the head is a spot that is highly erotic both for man and his wife. For most men, when the middle of the scalp is gently massaged and caressed, it does not only relieve stress, it also helps to induce natural sleep. Play with your partner’s scalp seductively, touch it, linger on at it and say something nice and watch how your spouse reacts.

Seventeen: Behind the knee of a woman lies some untapped nerves sensitivity. Although the spot is very soft, it is highly erogenous. It’s another nerve-rich area where many wives are not often touched. Touching the back of the knees and leading up to the thighs is intimate and it gets you closer to the main attraction, which is the vagina. So husband why not try gently touching your wife behind the knees while she stands in front of you? At least before you travel to the thigh and the vagina, start from behind the knees and watch her to see some wonders.

Eighteen: The Earlobe is actually one of the greatest place to seduce and concourse a woman, especially the sexiest part of the ear which is the lobe. To make the most of the ears’ erotic potential, I would suggest husbands sensually tickling the edge of your wives’ ear with your finger.

Questions and answers

What is “orchitis”?

Philips from Port Novo

Orchitis is a condition where the testicle is inflamed, and that can be secondary to an infection or another inflammatory condition. But certainly, infection is the most common reason for an infection of the testicle

I just gave birth to our first child and since then, I have no sexual feeling of any sort and I feel sex should be on hold for now because I am always feeling tired. But my husband has a different opinion; don’t you think he should be considerate? He behaves as if sex is a lifeline.

Josephine Festus

For nursing mothers, sheer fatigue is perhaps the biggest roadblock to feeling sexy again. Especially at the beginning, a new baby is usually awake to feed every two or three hours round the clock. This pattern can go on for months. About 30 per cent of babies still aren’t sleeping through the night by the ninth month. But men are still more likely to be interested in sex. To them, it’s often a way to relax and help feel emotionally close to their wives and they don’t need much of a warm-up before diving into sex. In contrast, nursing mothers need some comforting talk and foreplay to become aroused. If fatigue is what’s keeping you from getting your sex life back, the first thing to do is talk with your husband about it. Then do some creative problem solving. I suggest you ask your husband or any trustworthy efficient close relative to watch the baby so you can rest and get into the mood. Also, aim for early morning sex when you’ve both had a chance to catch some sleep. There is a need to watch out for your mood also because hormones are part of the sex problem, estrogen levels go down after delivery. This can cause a shortage of vaginal lubrication, which can make sex painful or less pleasurable. Hormonal changes after childbirth might also be related to postpartum depression, which can harm sexual desire. These feelings of sadness, anxiety, irritability, may last for a few weeks or even months. Constant nursing or pumping of milk can make your breasts feel so tender and nursing mothers don’t usually want to be touched there.

For some time now, I have been having erectile dysfunction and my wife no longer appeals sexually to me. It looks like I’d have to take pills for the rest of my life, My friends said it is more common among older men and that I just have to live with. Recently, I tried having sex with another woman and I immediately got an instant hard on. Why do I have to get an erection with someone else and not my wife?

The Lokoman

It’s not unusual for older men to need more stimulation to help get them aroused than they did when they were younger. But there’s no reason you should accept a lack of sexual function as one of the inevitable consequences of getting older because there is cure. Many men are able to get erections and enjoy sex well into their senior years, and there’s very likely no reason that you can’t be one of them. There are many reasons why a man might experience erection problems. Although lack of sexual attraction towards one’s wife might be one of them, it is definitely not the major reason. Having a one-night stand with some other woman apart from your wife would not actually solve the problem; reason being that the same thing will occur again with the other woman after you must have got used to having sex with her. This will still lead to a statuesque. What you need to do is to get some cure and to bring your wife’s sexual performance to match your sexual fantasy level. This will increase your attraction towards her and revive sexual passion in you.

Madam, are there no basic sexual positions that couples can engage in for ultimate satisfaction? I am tired of all those sex position guides that sound like they are meant for super models? My wife and I are uniquely matched in a way that makes some of the standard sexual positions extremely difficult.

Weight, height flexibility, special abilities, physical disabilities, penis size, vaginal depth, different body types and sizes make spouse to force their partners into a position in which they are not comfortable, rather it is advisable to vary up positions through sex to help keep the muscles from straining or cramping up. For instance, if you’re very tall and wife is too short, aside from the basic missionary position, try standing on the stairs or having her sit on something taller than a chair, like the kitchen counter, a set of dresser drawers, or the back of the couch. If she likes sex from behind, she can stand and bend over something, resting her hips on the arm of a chair or her hands on the seat. From this position, you should have a lot of downward leverage with which to thrust, giving you a chance to angle in different directions for a number of different kinds of stimulation, including the possibility of some serious g-spot contact. Now, if she is the tall one, doggie style sex is really great with short husbands, because you can get down very low onto the bed and she can use her own leverage to thrust against you.

If the husband is a bit on the heavy side, woman on top will solve the problem. She can hold on to your knees for leverage and support and grind her clitoris against your thighs and pubic bone without putting any pressure on your chest. But if it is the wife that is heavy, big and huge and you appear to be thinning, there is nothing to worry. Thin husbands tend to have larger penis, mostly because they have fewer layers of fat padding the base and they tend to be in fitter cardiovascular health as well, allowing them to go longer and with greater stamina. So, start off with the missionary position style and its different variations. If you have a shorter penis, or she is ovulating, bring her legs up higher to get deeper. If you are large or her vaginal canal is shallow, keep her legs low to help prevent bumping her cervix too hard.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]