Will you swap phone with your partner for a day?
Angel George and Sandra Ogunfiditi

It is widely believed that the mobile phone is a private and personal gadget and not meant for another person. Since spouses are not supposed to have secrets between them, SATURDAY PUNCH decided to ask Nigerians if they could switch phones with their partner for a day.

My phone is my office – Jubril Alakija

No, I cannot swap phone with my wife because that is my second office. If there were other means through which my clients could communicate with me, then I can switch phones with her. But I have just one phone. She would not be able to give detailed answers to my clients when they call and I can’t give detailed answers to hers either. My phone is my office whenever I don’t go to work.

My wife knows my present password – Babajide Ogunrinde

Of course I can swap phones with my wife for a day or even more because there is nothing I am hiding. My phone at present has a password and she knows the code. There is no secret affair that I am running behind her back. If she wants a phone swap, I would gladly give her because I am not hiding anything she shouldn’t know about.

I’d clear my chat history – Victor Okon

Yes, I should be able to swap phones with my wife for a day but I would have to clear my chat history. Of course I would not find any dirt on her phone because she is clean. But I, on the other hand, would need to wipe my chat history before I can decide to swap phones with her. It is not like I have dirt on my sleeves but me and my friends talk about things that ought to be private among us. I am a married man and they are still bachelors.

We are one – Ajibola Friday

Yes, I can swap phone with my wife for a day or maybe more. We are one and I can leave my phone with her because there is nothing in this world that we hide from each other. We are open enough and her handling my phone would not be a problem. I trust her and I know she trusts me too.

It is a matter of trust and understanding – Ogunmayin Adekunle

There is no big deal in swapping phones with her; so long it’s just for a day. As a matter of fact, my wife receives calls on my phone at times if I am not there to pick up. It’s just a matter of trust and understanding.

I do not see any big deal in it – Stella Olajiga

Yes, I would gladly swap phones with my husband because I do not see any big deal in it and I don’t have a skeleton in my cupboard. He has the password to my phone anyway and he can decide to go through it even when I’m next to him. He calls me more than anyone else and I can always get back to my messages when I get the phone back. I haven’t really thought about giving him my phone because I have nothing to hide. If he requests for it, I will definitely give it to him.

We share basically everything together – Adedoyin Kayode

I will willingly swap phones with my husband even for more than a day. Basically, we share everything between ourselves, even confidential things. If I have important mails while my phone is with him, all he needs to do is get across to me and ask how he should reply especially if the mail has to do with money matter. I am sure he can swap his phone with me too because, he is as open as a book. We don’t hide things from each other.

I cannot swap phones even for a second – Jejeola Jimoh

I cannot swap phones with my husband not even for a second not to talk of a day. I believe that my phone should be my personal item and not an easy access to him. I can’t tell him to swap phone with me either because I believe he will always be in need of it as I cannot reply his calls and messages. For me, it’s not necessary for us to swap phones before we can prove we trust each other. I don’t have anything I’m hiding.

We don’t keep secrets – Kemisola Eunice

Of course yes, I would swap phone with my husband for a day because, he is part of me already and we don’t keep secrets. It’s normal for one’s partner to pick your call but aside from that, we should be free with each other. Even if I have someone crushing on me as a married woman or I am in contact with an old friend, I’d rather discuss it with him allow him to find out from someone else. And if he doesn’t like the idea, I would cut off any form of communication with such a person. He knows everything that happens to me daily.

I will swap my phone anytime and any day – Peace Adekoya

I really don’t support people who say mobile phone is private and can’t give their spouse their phone or the password to their phone. To me, swapping my phone with my husband for a day is not a problem, he is my husband and I believe we are one and I don’t have anything I should be hiding from him. The same thing applies to him also. I know some couples that don’t even allow their partners touch their phones let alone going through them. That is one of the things that cause most divorces these days. For me, I would switch my phone with my husband anytime any day even if he wants it right now.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: edit[email protected]