New facts about sexuality couples must watch out for (I)
Funmi Akingbade

Since the inception of this column, I have been able to discover lots of information that will enhance the sexual awareness level of the married couples out there. In spite of this, I discovered there are a whole lot of untapped information that we have yet to unravel when it comes to sexuality, sexual behaviours and sexual activities among married lovers of all categories.

So, in today’s article, I am going to enumerate some of these facts newly discovered by research and sex therapists all over the globe.

Have a wonderful time reading.

One: Many couples have been asking what and what they can do to have the best of a healthy sperm cell, as regards the volume, viscosity, and counts. To really make more healthy sperm, it’s been discovered that mere regular exercise does the job. Married men who exercised at least 15 hours a week had up to 73 per cent more sperm than the ones who never did.

Two: Sperm make up only five per cent or less of your semen. It’s got amino acids, protein, sugar, and minerals to nourish the sperm cell.

Three: I have lots of couples who have told me that they reached orgasm and when they expected they would ejaculate, nothing would come out. They have asked me what they could do in this situation.

If nothing comes out when you climax, semen could be going into your bladder. Although this is not dangerous, I tell couples to either see a doctor or a specialist called a urologist, especially if you’re hoping to become a dad.

Three: Most men from the age of 35 and above produce about 3/4 of a teaspoon (of sperm) at a time, less than a typical dose of cough syrup. But husbands who are very well hydrated or who have gone a long time without an orgasm could make more.

I have received complaints over and over again that most of today’s condom comes with headaches, stress, and challenges. Now, these are the most common condom mistakes couples do not realise they do that makes wearing condom a headache.

Four: When couples put it on wrongly, this happens most times especially when couples may be a little distracted when handling condoms. I always advise couples to take a few seconds to make sure everything is in place, though. Most often, couples wear the condom inside out and then turn it over, whereas it should be the other way round.

Five: The second and third most common mistake is putting it on too late and taking it off too soon.

Six: When it comes to condom, size matters. Regular-size condoms will be fine for most husbands. It’s important, though, to find a condom that fits well and that’s not too short, too tight, or too big. A condom can only protect what’s covered. One that’s too short could allow diseases to be passed on. A condom that’s too big could slip off in the heat of the moment also. I always tell couples to always know what’s right for the husband. If a husband measures more than seven inches long, such husband may need a larger size.

Seven: Many couples use Vaseline or a pinch of baby oil as a form of good lubricant in conjunction with the condom. But it has been discovered that oil-based lubricants like petroleum jelly and baby oil damage condom. It is better to use only water-based or silicone-based lubricants like K-Y jelly, or even water or saliva. And if you’re concerned about getting it right, buy a condom that’s already lubricated.

Eight: I need to also let the married couples know that all condoms do not give spouse the same amount of protection. The three main kinds of condoms – latex, polyurethane, and animal skin (lambskin) – help to prevent pregnancy. But protection from disease is never guaranteed. Organic or animal-skin condoms are often made from the intestinal lining of sheep. This won’t prevent sexually transmitted infections. Viruses can get through tiny holes in them, even though sperm can’t. Latex condoms are the most popular and usually the most inexpensive. Polyurethane condoms are good for people with latex allergies. They are thinner but tend to feel looser.

For couples who are looking for the best form of family planning method without the use of synthetic drugs, condoms have been found to be the most popular form of birth control. As a matter of fact, condoms have a lot going for them. They’re easy to use and find and you don’t need a special prescription. Plus, the condom is the only form of birth control that lowers the risk of pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases. They are the second most popular contraception behind the birth control pill.

Questions!!! Answers!!!

Do we have less ability for arousal as we age?

Fredrick Mathew

I think our physical capacity is limited and diminishes with age, and yet that doesn’t mean that the net experience has to be worse. For instance, my aged father plays tennis much better today than he did 15 years ago and yet that man 15 years ago, could certainly outrun, outhit, outdo anything even outscore some of his friends today because he is more strategic. The life experience of playing for so many years has assisted him and in much the same way, someone who knows his partner, is known by his partner, who has the ability to be relaxed and be comfortable and enjoy each other can have a great sex life. And the irony is that those people who come to me later in life who have had problems, fortunately for them, they actually have some of the best times to look forward to sexually, whereas people who had fabulous sex lives when they were younger may notice some progressive things where things aren’t quite as great as they were, even though it’s still wonderful. So, getting help later on in life is very often a good idea, not a bad idea.

Is there anything I can do to have a better sex drive?

Funmi, I am so certain that the greatest wish of my husband is for me to have a better sex drive. I have tried all I can but nothing has changed.

Worried wife

Experts say the answer is not so much in what a spouse’s sex drive is, but whether or not it has reached its potential. While everyone’s level of desire is individual, it can also differ with each partner and vary within a relationship, increasing or decreasing over time. Age can also alter sex drive, in men and women, and is usually linked to a decline in sex hormones. Moreover, there are a number of emotional and physical conditions, as well as medications, including some sedative or sleeping pills that can put a damper on desire. If a physical problem causes sex drive to plummet — such as erection difficulties in men, or painful intercourse in women — and treatment is received, desire usually increases. If emotions are getting in the way, talking to a counsellor or sex therapist can help. And sometimes, sex drive will recharge on its own, as circumstances in couple’s life change — such as the birth of a new child, change of environment, loss of loved ones, death of a previous spouse, marriage to a new spouse, change of financial status, change of inspirations and aspirations. But for your case, you can take some libido enhancers for women; they are very good.

Is one ever “too old” to make love?

I have five biological sons and they are all getting married one after the other. each time they bring in their potential wives to visit me in the village, I eavesdrop their sexual escapades and wish I can still engage in active sex but my wife has put a hold on that, claiming we are too old to make love. Is one ever “too old” to make love?

Mr. Chi

Provided that you and your wife are in good physical health, experts say both men and women can continue to have sex to any age. However, the aging process itself, along with many health conditions, can make having sex increasingly difficult in later years. However, even if intercourse is not possible, remember that physical intimacy can take many forms and that sometimes getting older really does mean getting wiser about the many ways in which couples can bring each other pleasure. Tell your wife you secretly still want sex and if she can’t make it available, she can give you gentle foreplay. With this, you can still recapture the feel of sex.

What is the definition of “sex addiction” and what does it entail?

I am really finding it so difficult to draw the line between normal sexual desire and sex addiction. My wife believes that few sexual relationships between us should be okay; to her, my demands mean I am so addictive to sex. She wonders if I am not ever going to be satisfied and this worries her. But I think I am very normal; please what is your stand?

Ibrahim Atayeroko

Sex addiction is described as an overwhelming need for sex, the pursuit of which frequently takes precedence over all other things in life, including work and relationships. Sex addicts frequently engage in risky behaviours, including not only vulnerable sex, but also seeking stimulation in dangerous situations. Behaviour is usually self-justified, so most sex addicts don’t view their actions as problematic, though they frequently feel a sense of shame or guilt after indulging in their addiction.

Behaviours associated with sex addiction include: Compulsive masturbation; multiple extramarital affairs; anonymous sex partners or strings of one-night stands; consistent use of pornography; consistent need for phone or computer sex; continuous use of prostitutes; sexual exhibitionism (such as “flashing”); voyeurism (watching others have sex); stalking a sex partner; they are actually after a perverted way of seeking sexual pleasure.

I think about sex constantly

I am a 25-year-old male, although fully grown to have sex, I shy away from it for some reasons. I discovered the rate I think about sex and the rate my sex drive skyrockets is a bit on the alarming side. I do not really see a reason this should happen because I do not go out of my way to look into sexual stuff. The only thing I do differently recently is that I increased my hours of workout. I exercise four to five days a week. But for few days now, I have noticed my urge to have sex has increased. Is it something to do with my Testosterone level? Should I be worried? My diet is rich in protein (eggs, chicken), veggies/fruits and healthy fats. Can you please tell me why I am experiencing this? I told a friend this and he suggested that I eat lots of soy products in order to reduce the libido. Is it a good suggestion?

Johnson Obiofapo

Hi Johnson, I think you have no reason to get yourself worked up unnecessarily. Whatever you are experiencing now is as a result of the frequent exercise, coupled with the good healthy diet. Just enjoy yourself and be focused.

Hi Funmi, I read your book, Sexual Intimacy in Marriage where you suggested that vasectomy is okay for men as a form of family planning. However, my question is this; would this operation affect his performance level?

Mrs. Bash Wellness

A vasectomy does not affect performance or testosterone levels at all; it merely shuts off the sperm valve. In other words, your husband will still have the same amount of semen; it just will not have testosterone-heavy sperm in it. Better yet, a UCLA study concluded that men who have vasectomies live longer than men who do not.

My urine sometimes has a strong odour. What could be the cause?

Mrs. Wilfred Mary

Several culprits cause strong odour. You may be dehydrated, which makes urine more concentrated and odorous. Foods such as garlic and beans as well as certain vitamins and medications are other common but harmless causes. However, if those have all been ruled out, a urinary-tract infection may be to blame, even if you lack typical symptoms like burning and frequent urination.

Why do I get tired when I have my period?

Mrs Chuks Beatrice

Feeling exhausted during menstruation is a normal result of the plunge in the hormone oestrogen that occurs during this point in your cycle. Your energy level should return within a few days, when oestrogen levels start increasing again.

However, if the fatigue lasts longer than that or by tired, you mean that you are totally wiped out all week, there is probably another cause. You may be suffering from iron-deficiency anaemia, especially if you have very heavy periods.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]