Basic things couples should know about joint account
Tunde Ajaja

For this (marriage) reason, a man shall leave his father and mother and be united to his wife, and they two shall become one flesh,” is the usual statement when a man and woman are to be joined together.

Even though it’s a biblical phrase, it seems to capture the whole essence of marriage – two becoming one.

By custom, when people get married, they are expected to do things together with their spouse, without reservations, after all, according to the popular saying, love covers all things.

To a large extent, people have done this, like sharing their happiness, thoughts and worries; eating from same plate; sharing same bed; bathing together, without feeling shy or ashamed, etc., but one area that some have yet to agree on is whether it is better to have a joint account or not.

While some are disposed to it, as it helps to show that they have nothing to hide from their spouse, some feel when it comes to money, the details are better kept in the mind. But going by a popular saying, anyone who hides what is in their bank account would hide other things as well.

No doubt, there are advantages of operating a joint account. According to Think Money, a company that offers help and advice to people with money worries, these benefits include the fact that it makes it much easier for couples to pay bills, thereby saving them the hassle of sending money to each other and eliminating the worries of raising money for regular bills.

Also, it has been found to help couples to keep track of their joint monthly spending, budgeting for regular costs and saving for the future, such as wedding or a holiday and other financial commitments.

No doubt, these advantages are appealing and somewhat more convincing, especially when couples are (reasonably) free to spend what is left of their income the way they want.

According to a family life coach and President of Living Home Foundation, Pastor Bisi Adewale, joint account is good, but its success depends on trust, openness, faithfulness and the success of the marriage itself. To him, if the marriage is not strong or intimate enough, joint account could even worsen it.

He added, “Joint account removes envy or jealousy, such that when the wife is progressing, the husband would not find it funny. One of the things causing troubles in families nowadays is when the wife is earning more than the husband, but when they have joint account, there would be nothing like that so the man would not feel insecure.

“That is what my wife and I practise and it has really helped us. Also, it encourages unity, progress, removes insecurity and helps to avoid waste, because it makes couples to come together to look at what they have and decide on what to do with it, after all, they see it as their money. We put all efforts to minimise what we spend and to maximise our income and it helps.”

But Adewale also pointed out that joint account could encourage laziness. He added, “I have seen situations where some men would relax, since they know money would always come from their wives. That is not good. Another is when a man is a dictator. It would no more be a joint account, but a dictator’s account, where the woman dumps the money into the account and the man spends it as he likes. That is one of the reasons why we say the account should be flexible and mutual so that either of them could opt out with ease.”

He identified three major things that cause problem in marriage, which he gave as money, sex and in-laws. According to him, about 60 per cent of the crisis in many homes is based on money.

He added, “Experts told us that if couples cannot agree on money, they will hardly agree on anything. It is not every day we have sex; it is not every day we see in-laws, but we spend money every day. Money is emotional, technical, spiritual and it touches every aspect of our lives. So, it deserves some care.”

However, given these merits and demerits, there are points to note before opening a joint account with your spouse. These include:

Decide on signatory to the account:

As much as couples are expected to trust one another, Adewale advises that couples should decide on whether they would adopt the ‘both to sign’ option or they should go for ‘either to sign’. This, he said, would go a long way in helping them to avoid issues. He added, “If they trust each other very well, it can be ‘either to sign’, but if not, and especially when the marriage is just starting, they could do ‘both to sign.’”Adewale said further that if they choose the ‘either to sign’ option, they could also set limits and give a standing order so that when the amount the person wants to withdraw is more than a certain amount, the transaction would require the partner’s consent. “That is very important, but if the trust between them is high, there might be no need for such. Another merit is that, in case of death of one of them, the other person can continue running the account, instead of waiting for letter of administration and it becomes easier if it’s ‘one to sign’. The only inhibition to that is if the terms of the account do not allow that.”

Set guidelines for contribution: It has been found that in some cases, couples decide to give a certain percentage of their income to the common pool, while in some cases, they could decide to put everything into it, especially when they trust each other very well. “If you both pay in a certain amount each month, it should also help to prevent arguments about money, as neither of you will be contributing more than the amount you have both agreed on, which could significantly reduce your chances of spending the night on the sofa,” Think Money said. Meanwhile, Adewale stressed that couples need to agree on this, so that one doesn’t give all and the other gives half. “There is percentage joint account, whereby you don’t have to drop everything into the pool. Both could say they would each give 15 per cent. Some could give all, based on trust. Overall, they both need to agree.”

Fidelity is key: Perhaps, one of the things that make some women not to give joint account a thought is if their husband is a womaniser. Adewale advised that any woman that wants to have joint account with her husband must make sure the man is faithful so he doesn’t spend the money on a girlfriend. He said, “Faithfulness is key. If you find out a man is cheating on you, the woman has to stop the joint account as soon as she can confirm that he is not faithful. The woman may be the one making the bulk of the money and the girlfriend is the one enjoying it, which is not good. And that is another reason we say the rule in setting up the account must be flexible so that when one party is not comfortable, he or she could opt out. Couples that would run joint account should know that there should be openness, the marriage should be strong and they both should be faithful.” He advised further that both of them should be getting notifications, both emails and text messages so as to be fully aware of happenings on the account.

In case you’re not a salary earner: Ordinarily, one tends to assume that joint account is easier to run when both are salary earners, but that is not necessarily true. Even though salary earners can dedicate a certain percentage of their earnings to the common pool, business owners can also do same with ease. How? Adewale said the best way is for both of them, as business persons, to place themselves on salary and make the deduction from their salaries. Thus, the rest of the profit could go to company’s account. He added, “This helps a lot so that when you see N300,000 in your partner’s bag, you don’t expect everything to go into the joint account or that your spouse because if they don’t you might feel the person is playing smart. Placing yourselves on salary would eliminate such.”

While advising couples, Adewale said even though joint account is good, it is not compulsory. He added that for those who decide to go that route, they must always communicate when it comes to running their joint account.

He said, “There must be deep communication and there should be room for flexibility. Even though you agreed on a model before wedding, you can adjust it and make it mutual so that either can opt out of it. Generally, joint account is good, if the marriage is a happy one. It moves you forward but you must not condone laziness.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]