What do you do first when you wake up in the morning, greet your spouse or check your phone?
Angel George and Sandra Ogunfiditi

These days, many people have attached so much importance to their mobile phone that they wouldn’t even mind having it under their pillow while they sleep at night. As such, SATURDAY PUNCH asked some Nigerians what they usually do first when they wake up from sleep, greet their spouse or check their phone.

I sleep haphazardly – Adeniyi Adeolu

I pick up my phone first in the morning because I wake up before my wife most times. Sometimes I wake up as early as 3am. I sleep haphazardly especially on days I have a project to run and I have to be up early. But then we exchange greetings whenever she wakes up.

My wife is an important part of me – Oluwafemi Taiwo

I greet my spouse first when I wake up before checking my phone because she is my first contact before any other thing in the world. My wife is an important part of me; a sick person cannot do business. Even if she is still sleeping, your first sight should be your spouse, unless one is no longer in love.

We exchange greetings over the phone – Akinwande Odedere

It all depends; I greet my spouse first when I wake up in the morning before checking my phone. At times, I wake up early and I would not be able to sleep again but I wouldn’t disturb her if she is still asleep. But the days she travels, I pick up my phone first thing in the morning and we exchange greetings over the phone.

We wake up together to pray – Ajiboye Akinlabi

I greet my wife first when I wake up in the morning before doing anything else. If she is still sleeping when I wake up, I would have to wake her up because we have to observe our solat together when it is 5am.

I greet my wife first – Ilesanmi Micheal

Greeting my wife before picking up my phone first thing in the morning is a sign of respect except she is not beside me when I wake up. It is only normal that I show a sign of respect to her not only in the morning but every time. But when she wakes up before I do, I pick up my phone and we exchange greetings when we see. But most times we wake up together to say our prayers.

It depends on who wakes up first – Yusuf Fatima

There are two ways to the question. Some days, I wake up before him and some days, he wakes up before me. The days I wake up before him, I have the right to go through my phone and do other stuff in the house. But when we wake up side by side, it is only respectful that I greet him before I decide to pick up my phone or do anything. It actually depends on who wakes up first.

I say my prayer first – Lily Adeh

The first thing I do in the morning is to say my prayers. I wake up before my husband. Most times I wake him up to say our prayers after which I will greet him and ask him what he wants to eat before going to work. After all this is settled, I will then pick up my phone to check if I have any important information that I should know about.

I will always greet him first – Olubukola Lawal

Most times when I wake up and he is next to me, I greet him first before picking up my phone or even getting out of bed. It’s mandatory I show respect to the man that deserves it. He is the head of the house and should not be belittled. Even when we have issues, I still greet him. After I greet him, then I can go through my phone for a while before engaging in other activities.

I check my phone first for important messages – Foluke Omolola

I check my phone first when I wake up; usually for the purpose of checking what the time is rather than switching on the light to check the time because I usually have my phone right beside me and of course to check if there is any important message I need to respond to.

It depends on our mood – Adeyinka Adedugbe

Well, it depends because most times I greet my spouse first before going through my phone. But there are times I would just decide to check my phone first. It depends on the schedule and mood and who wakes up first. At times maybe when we are not on good terms or when I sleep in my own room, I always check my phone first.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]