Penile enhancement surgery results in man’s death
One man’s penis enlargement surgery has turned fatal, and he has become a cautionary tale, with doctors warning those desiring to enhance their manhood to forget their plan.

A healthy, 30-year-old man in Stockholm wanted to increase both the girth and length of his genitals using a process where fat is transferred from his belly to his penis.

The man was one of 84,000 people worldwide who seek to enhance their girth every year, even though many doctors warn men against doing it.

A description of the case in the Journal of Forensic Sciences explained that surgeons had finished the elongation portion of the surgery and were in the enlargement part, which involved injecting the patient with two fluid ounces of his own fat cells, when things went wrong.

The fat leaked into his veins and traveled to his lungs, which resulted in a lung embolism, rupturing his blood vessels.

The patient, who was found to have no prior heart conditions, ended up having a heart attack on the operating table. Despite attempts from doctors to perform CPR, the man passed away two hours later.

The conclusion of the study said, “This is the first described case where a seemingly simple and safe procedure of penis enlargement by autologous fat transfer caused sudden death in a healthy young man.”

It also suggested that the surgery was riskier, since it combined two procedures.

Urologist Tobias Kohler, of the Mayo Clinic, who was not involved in this study, said that among the reasons surgeons advise against the “completely useless” surgery is because it “never works” and because of “other horrible consequences, from disfigurement to permanent erectile dysfunction, to even worse.”

A 2017 scientific review in Translational Andrology and Urology showed that “the majority of men seeking penis elongation treatment have a normal penis size, which is functionally adequate.”

Instead, it is suggested that most patients seeking this elective surgery suffer from body dysmorphic disorder and cannot accurately see their bodies.