Three terrible things a man can do during sex
There are plenty of tips and tricks men can practise to spice things up in the bedroom.

From orgasm-enhancing sex positions to libido-boosting foods, there are never-ending discussions on ways men can enhance their partners’ sexual experience.

But what are women’s biggest turn-offs during sex?

To find out what behaviours men should avoid, Daily Star carried out a poll.

“What’s the most off-putting thing a man can do during sex?” it asked.

The poll, of 1,700 people revealed the following:

• Farting is the most off-putting thing a man can do during sex! A whopping 47 per cent of participants said farting during the act is the fastest way to spoil the mood.

Other bedroom faux-pas include the following:

• Orgasming and then rolling over. This was revealed as the second rudest bedroom habit with 41 per cent of the votes.

• Boasting about (sexual) performance came in third, with 12% of women saying it was a turn-off. This complaint is tricky, though; as a new report titled, “Do Women’s orgasms function as a masculinity achievement?” reveals that men feel more manly and sexually empowered after a woman orgasms.

The study, published in the The Journal of Sex Research, asked 810 men to imagine that a woman had orgasmed or not orgasmed during sex with them.

They then had to rate how masculine they felt after the act. Results revealed that men who imagined women climaxed felt more manly.

These feelings were “exacerbated for men with high masculine gender role stress,” meaning that men who adhere to typically masculine gender roles were more likely to feel like superheroes after getting a woman to reach a climax.

While him doing a little celebratory dance about making you orgasm might be seriously off putting, there are some benefits too.

It could encourage men to work harder to make a woman orgasm. This could result in more foreplay and more oral sex.

However, women actually find men boasting about their sexual skills one of the most unattractive things, so be careful not to big yourself up too much.

It’s better just to put on a good performance and then be quietly content with your achievements.