The attention I get because of my boobs is annoying —Woman cries
“The amount of unwanted attention I get because of my boobs is just sad, exhausting, annoying, and not fun,” a woman has complained on YouTube.

She goes on an epic rant about the struggles of having big boobs in a hilarious video.

Noting that she has recently gained weight, she says the weight has boosted her already large bust from a 28FF to a mammoth 30H bra size.

But where some women would be delighted with the natural breast enlargement, the woman, Hannah, is less thrilled by the prospect.

Hear her: “Any time I mention that when I’ve gained weight it goes to my boobs first or anything about having big boobs – I get a lot of response from people saying: ‘I wish I had big boobs. You’re so lucky.’ “No, no you don’t. I genuinely hate these comments. Stop it, you don’t understand,” she laments.

She warns, “Having big boobs sucks, because that’s what I know about and dear God, does it suck!”

Despite the popularity of a larger bust, Hannah argues that the physical logistics make carrying the extra load difficult.

Hannah explains: “I have an extremely bad back, I crack it and click it and everything is heavy.”

In addition to these struggles, she says, buying underwear is more difficult as your size increases.

“The thing about bras for big cup sizes is you can’t get them in shops on the high street.

“You just can’t get them anywhere except from specialist brands and specialist shops and they are ridiculously expensive,” she laments.

In addition to the hunt for the elusive larger cup size, Hannah points out that buying the matching bottoms presents issues of its own.

She says: “If you have ever dreamed or wondered what it was like to have a matching bra and knickers set, just get rid of that dream.

“Because you’re in a specialist shop it means they charge you a f*** tonne for the underwear to match the really expensive bra you just bought.”

It’s not just underwear that poses a problem for the 25-year-old, her everyday clothes do too.

She says: “Clothes don’t fit me. Clothes aren’t made for me; clothes are made for skinny tall models with no boobs.”

Disgruntled Hannah says the reaction of those around her also puts her off her busty frame.

“The amount of unwanted attention I get because of my boobs is just sad, exhausting, annoying, and not fun,” she cries out.

Talk of different strokes!