Five ways to good sexual exploration
Funmi Akingbade

Exploration is actually the action of travelling in an unfamiliar territory or area in order to learn more about that vicinity. One of the many ways couples can never be tired or bored of good sexual relationship is to make sure that they keep on scrutinising and surveying many unfamiliar sexual areas. When sexual exploration is a watchword in a couple’s calendar, there will be no reason for either of the spouses to start looking out for sexual satisfaction.

When it comes to sexual relationship, there is no one rule to the game; anything can come from either of the partners. Now husband, when was actually the last time you just laid back and kept your hands off your wife and allow her to show you the way to pleasure her best? Or do you think until you do it your own way, that is when she will get high and explode? Wife, when was actually the last time you lavishly abandoned yourself on the bed and tell your man to come show you the stuff he is made of when it comes to sexual surprises? Or are you always dishing up out orders for him on how best to satisfy you?

Well sometimes, you may be surprised to know the stuff your partner is made up of if you just for once allow him or her to do the exploration. So today, we are going to learn five ways to good sexual explorations any of the partners can engage in that can make an ordinary wife whisper the ‘unusual’ and an ordinary husband ask for more.

One … A really good starter script for explorative sex is simply this: do things together especially eating together. This is one explorative gateway so many couples neglect. Spouses never know that the simple act of eating together does wonder to the emotion, psychic and total wellbeing of the other person. While we eat together, there is room for us to talk together, share our worries, fear and aspiration. The dining table is actually the table of connectivity. The truth of the matter is that the couple that eats together, talks together, will have many things in common and one of the resultant things they end up doing together is actually sleeping together. Eating together is like giving your partner a love potion, because a delicious meal can be a prelude to sex. The act of cooking together can be a form of foreplay and the aroma of food can ignite intimacy, especially when couples eat some aphrodisiac food items together. As a matter of fact, nothing stops the wife from putting some natural aphrodisiac in the food of her husband just to accelerate things for the expected sexual union. Certain natural love potions otherwise known as edible aphrodisiacs can reignite, spark and turn up the heat in couples’ sexuality by improving blood flow to the genitals, enhancing performance and pleasure and ultimately put couple in the mood for lovemaking. Some couples have found out that fruits such as bananas, cucumbers kiwi, tiger nuts, local baked groundnut and corn popularly called [guguru and epa] and carrots speak for themselves on that score.

Do you know that avocado is called “testicle trees? Newlyweds are mostly encouraged to drink honey wine during the first month of marriage to improve their sexual stamina. That is why “honeymoon” came from honey. Garlic is rich in antioxidants that protect against cell damage; garlic is said to stir sexual desire and increases blood flow to the genitals. Research has shown that the aroma of local popcorn induces blood flow to the penis and the combination cucumber and coconut makes some women ready for sex.

Of course, if you want better sex, take care of your health. Being overweight may deflate couple’s libido, especially if you don’t feel attractive as a spouse. Extra body fat raises the specter of elevated blood glucose levels that can damage the blood vessels and nerves that allow for arousal and sexual pleasure. It also increases the risk for high blood pressure and clogged arteries. Upon menopause, women lose 90 per cent of their circulating estrogen, which may result in less blood flowing to the genitals and diminished capacity for arousal. Body fat offers some protection, because, like the woman’s ovaries, it produces estrogen.

Two … Another trick that does the magic is sending some romantic and erotic texting, while at work or somewhere far away from home. Such as “I’m just thinking about you right now and I am full of some sexual surprises for you” or “hurry back and come to where your heart is,” or “I can’t wait to get down low with you tonight, I hope it’s going to be a reality and not a dream; please be ready.” And while at home when you are certain the coast is clear and the environment is favourable, start off sexual exploration by saying ‘what you dream of and love to take place between both of you, what you are going to do and promise you will do it,’ with a very low sexy seductive voice. Or you can subtly whisper ‘I love and enjoy passionate sex with you, come kiss me and undress me.’

Three … Many husbands are eagerly waiting to hear something hot and seductive like “I love the feel of this, please don’t stop”, or “Ooh, I need you inside me.” Then try describing your feelings and sensations, like, “Mmm, you taste so good” or “ahhh you feel so good pressed up against my body, are we repeating this soon?” Researchers say words such as come into me, don’t go, I want more of this, your rod satisfies me fully,’ and so on are said to turn husbands on faster than anything. Words are powerful especially seductive, erotic, sexy words, try some tonight.

Husbands, do you know that ordinary ‘come to me’ in a very slow romantic manner can make your wife be ready for sex there and then? Or when she says something that makes you happy, you can say ‘hee you make me so happy. I feel warm inside when I am around you; can’t wait to go inside with you.’ Whenever you envisage sex, make sure you make the foreplay hot and steamy for her. Begin with small bites on the earlobes and along the contours of her neck, followed by smooth and tender sucking on both nipples. Use light touches along the torso with your fingertips. Do these until you come into contact with her inner thighs.

Four … One of the best exploration of good sexual union is when the husband allows his wife to be the one to guide him once she is prepared to take the exploration to a new level. Then slowly, pull her to the bed, play with her affectionately; then tactically open her legs wide with one hand while the other hand lifts her left leg up, slowly place your male organ on her female organ and push it in gently. Immediately your male organ gets in, make sure she holds you so close while her leg is still lifted for easy entry and say nice things to her hearing. When you notice she is steady on bed, then lift her up, turn her back, making her two hands hold the bed rail, tilt her up a bit in a doggy style form with her two breasts accessible for your gentle caressing and massaging. The intensity of your thrusting can make your wife moan for pleasure.

This type of explorative sex can linger on as long as both spouses desire. After a while, husband you can even make your wife lie on the couch faced down; then kneel behind her and fill her genitals from behind with all your fingers in a rhythmic manner until you could fill her wet with her natural lubricated fluid. You may keep on exploring with your fingers till she makes some usual sighing. If you notice she enjoys the act, you may then turn her face up and make her hold onto your waist and slowly enter again but this time, make sure your entering is gentle and welcoming, making her face full of smiles.

Five … Nothing stops a wife to be explosive while making love with her husband. Place one of your nipples in your husband’s mouth and seductively tell him you want him to suck it as he makes love to you. Play with his male organ, tease him like a baby; let him giggle while you touch him, it brings the boy out of him. Touch the tip of his penis with your breasts; systematically rub it against your nipples. Keep doing this till you notice your nipples are erect, as soon as you notice this, lubricate them and increase rubbing them on your husband’s penis till you notice he is almost at the verge of climaxing. If you can successfully do this, it helps many husbands with the challenge of premature ejaculation and quick or weak erection. Wow, if I were you, I would spring into action immediately and experience the best explorative sex with my spouse this weekend. Until next week, have a good sex-filled weekend while I remain your loyal bedroom instructor.

Question and answer

What is your plan for us?

Hi Funmi, seems your column is a bit unfair to the young adults and the singles. In your column, you strictly insist it is not meant for us; yet, you never made any provision for us in any way whatsoever. Meanwhile thousands of singles and young adults out there are oblivious of the intricacies of marriage and sex in marriage. This is obvious in the rate of divorce in early marriages in our society. Mockingly, we are supposed to be the future generation, but I am afraid by that time, marriage would have been extinguished out of our nation and there will be no future to look forward to any longer. Don’t you have something for us?

Orogidi Mark, Enugu

Hi Mark, this column has lots in stock for the singles and the young adults. There are over 30 million singles in Nigeria and 70 per cent have been heartbroken already due to one bad relationship or the other and mismanagement of sex. In view of this, sex and sexuality column has already provided a free consultation forum since the inception of this column both for the singles and for all intending couples. All you need to do is just send a text message, WhatsApp message or emails to the columnist and detailed help will be rendered to you. In most of our replies, we make available tips that can keep marriage last for life, tips that will help singles and young adults find out common sense of togetherness, and we provide a high level of marital literacy. We have countless of other singles like you who have made good use of such opportunities.

This is killing me slowly

Dear Funmi, I am using this venue to ask for your help and also to confess my guilt so as to be free from the burden on my heart. My husband comes after just a few thrusts and this is not only killing me, it has made me to start having serial boyfriends who are really sexually satisfying me so well that it’s now very difficult for me to detach myself from them. Although I cut off from few of them, I still keep two of them who are so very good in bed when it comes to sex and really satisfying a woman. I am not a promiscuous lady but my husband has ever been having premature ejaculation since when I married him. Sometimes once in like four months, my husband lasts longer but only if he keeps stopping, which is very annoying. I was patient at first but now, I get angry about it and would rather just not bother. I started seeking for sex outside when I realised he was not ready to do anything about it. Is there anything he can do to improve his staying power? I am actually asking this question because I am already overwhelmed with guilt. But I love sex and I am still so attached to the men sexually satisfying me. Please treat as confidential.

Mrs. Dorothy

I completely get your frustration, but two wrongs can never make a right. The help you are advocating for now is what you should have done from the outset, so as not to complicate matters. Agreed many men are so afraid to accept the truth that premature ejaculation is an issue of concern that needs immediate solution. Besides, many men afflicted with it are not even aware of the fact that there are permanent solutions due to lots of fake solutions paraded out there. However, you should not put the horse before the cart. What you should have done at the initial state of things is what you are doing now; looking for solution when you are already in an addiction. Premature ejaculation affects 40-57 per cent of men in Nigeria.

It is nearly always caused or made worse majorly by stress, masturbation and unhealthy food with some other issues. I want you to know that your husband is very much aware that he is letting you down and probably feels awful about it. This is not just his problem to fix on his own. You are part of the problem and part of the cure. Stop wasting energy on feeling angry and take action; introduce him to the many natural ways of combating the ailment and also some highly recommended natural herbs and see your husband perform wonders. Above all, you have to first stop any illicit affair with anyone and concentrate on making your marriage work by helping your husband come out of this. The truth of the matter is this, none of these men will take you as a wife when your home gets destroyed knowing that you were a cheat while in a marriage relationship before. And may I say this, sex is not the reason for your living, it is part of a good marriage relationship.

What can I do to improve the quality of my sperm? And what time of the day is best to check my testosterone level?

Bishop Olomi

The great thing about sperm health is that it is directly related to your whole-body health. So, eating a healthy balanced diet, exercising, sunshine every day on your skin, avoiding bad social habits, alcohol, tobacco and other drugs, all of those things have impact on your general health and sperm health. If you’re obese, you’re going to have problems with your hormones and other issues. If you’ve got high blood pressure that’s not controlled or maintained, if you have thyroid disorders, if you have self-abusive habits, all of those things have a big impact on your general health, and they also have impact on your sperm health. As to the best time to check your level of testosterone for a man, it’s probably best to get a testosterone level checked late morning sometimes around 8am to 10am. That’s when it peaks. Although there’s normal fluctuation in the testosterone throughout the day, usually morning is one of them, which is why men’s libido, their sex drive, tends to be higher in the morning because their testosterone levels are higher.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]