23 ways to make sex as simple as A.B.C (2)
Funmi Akingbade

Twelve … While in missionary position, wife, hold your husband by his buttocks; pull him in, and tell him to thrust faster until he climaxes. Then after he has ejaculated he should begin stroking your clitoris to make you reach orgasm. Some husbands love how it feels to enter you.

Thirteen. … Next time you have sex, ask him to pull out after 12 thrusts, and use your tongue to caress his penis for a few seconds. Then let him penetrate again. Most men have the most orgasm when their wives caress their scrotum concurrently when the man is thrusting in and out. Have you tried this out yet, what are you still waiting for? The torture of scrotal stimulation while they are inside their wives can be unexplainably splendid. So wives, whenever you make some gasping sound as your husband’s slips inside you; it is as if you have been aching for them all day. To regulate or control the thrusting movement, hold tighter for deeper penetration and gently rub to slow things down. In missionary position, raise your legs straight up toward the ceiling, and close them together. This angle lets him go deeper and makes you feel tighter. While lying side by side, grab one of his hands, and use it to stimulate your clitoris. Then take his other hand, and guide his first two fingers inside you. This positions your palm flat against his member’s sensitive underside. Then do a few things he cannot do himself, like whisper in his ear, kissing his ear lobes and kissing his back.

Fourteen. … Wife don’t be in the dark, most times when your husband asks for sex, it’s not because they are erotically sex craving but sometimes some husbands have sex for different reasons and one of them is to be soothed and comforted. So giving your husband a quickie is like releasing a pent-up, bottled passion, a kind of an earthquake: it gets your husband’s adrenaline rushing and it’s over in a flash and leaves him weak in the knees. Just pull his penis out of the opening in his boxers and push your panties aside. All you need for successful second round sex is start giving his penis undivided attention Waoh, I am blushing already.

Fifteen. … I also need to let many wives out there know that the best penis attention is a huge turn on for husbands especially when they realise that their wives are enjoying the experience. The main trick of pleasuring the penis consists of sliding your mouth up and down on the head and shaft of the penis, letting your saliva provide the moisture necessary to do this smoothly. Beside the mouth, carefully placed hands also enhance the experience. Like the clitoris, the husband’s penis responds to different types of contacts, connections and interactions at different times on different locations and on different days. Sometimes fast and hard will turn him on the most; sometimes he will prefer slow and soft.

On the outer side of the penis, just below the head and in the centre, is the frenulum, the most nerves-packed spot on the shaft. Licking and rubbing this sensitive area will send shivers up your husband’s spine. You can bring your husband to orgasm simply by sliding the head of his penis and an inch or so of the shaft in and out of your mouth. There is no need to take in any more than what is comfortable for you. With just the head of the penis held loosely between your lips, tilt your head first to one side and then the other side so that your mouth massages the penis with either a quick or a slow circular stroke.

Sixteen. … Many wives want to know the best position to take for this wonderful task; any one that works. Whether you are facing your husband’s feet, head, or kneeling in front of him, which is a classical position; there are lots of simple things you can do to intensify the fantastic feeling of pleasuring him. Caress his balls, play with his pubic hair, or stroke his thighs. You can also enhance his enjoyment by pressing the base of his penis.

A husband loves it when a wife plays with his penis as though it is her favourite toy. While pleasuring him, take a few seconds to hold and squeeze it, paddle it from side to side, rub your face against it or use your hand to slap it gently against your tongue. Of course, you have to be wise about this so you do not piss him off; the objective is to create fun. You can slide a moisture penis in, over or between your breasts. Push your breasts together to create a fleshy groove for his penis to slide up and down in it while your vagina is resting or getting ready for the real thing.

Seventeen. … Wife, please do all you can to always and regularly regain your sexual confidence and libido in the area of your mind, it is one of your best simple trick secrets. It was in those dark age days that tradition and culture tried so much to place stigmas on women who tried to openly voice their sexual desire especially in African setting. In lieu of this over the years, many wives have lost their sexual confidence and libido. What presents itself in a typical marriage is a sex bed where the woman is only to be seen and not heard. Yet, each time I consult with many husbands, the complaint I receive is that their wives are extremely inactive when it comes to sex. I can understand why; this is a sort of challenge for wives. One of the ways to come off this guilt and enjoy the terrific gift of sex is to be up and doing, because for many husbands, sex is a very important act.

Eighteen. … The female mind can put the female hands to very good action and the hands though cannot speak verbally, can follow the direction of the mind and also speak volumes by action and like kissing, using your hands as a wife is one of the crucial skills of spicing the sex bed. Passionate wives know how, when and where to touch and seldom have idle hands. Wife, from the moment your husband starts kissing you, you should put your imagination and mind to active use and spring to action by either grasping your husband’s hip, caressing his arm, back or thigh or sliding your finger around the nape of his neck. From caressing to grabbing or tender scratching, there are countless ways that you can increase the pleasure of any given moment by getting your mind and hands involved because your mind and those hands are exceptionally gifted. In addition to using your hands to enhance every aspect of doing the deed, bringing your husband to orgasm via manual stimulation is a highly underrated experience. Manual stimulation allows a wife to closely watch her husband’s reactions and this gives the wife a clue as to the kind of stimulation he needs to climax during thrusting in and out. Don’t be afraid to go beyond using your fingertips. The penis shaft is usually more responsive to an encompassing full-hand hold.

Nineteen. …When you want to get your fingers on your husband’s penis, bring it to attention by rubbing it deliberately through his pants or by working your hands down the front of his jeans, boxers, ‘sokoto’, or trousers, wrapping your fingers around it and begin to cuddle; do it softly so that you are not pulling on the skin. While you can be playing and gently squeezing his penis or even wagging it from side to side, you should never be overly rough or rub it too quickly or too tightly without adequate lubrication. Many couples take to the use of Vaseline to prevent dryness of the vagina. Please, there are better lubricants than Vaseline. For better choice of lubricants, please call me. For couples who love public display of affection, the hand-job is one of the few sexual acts wife can engage in. A little under-the-table groping can be a lot of fun, as long as privacy is ensured; this is a great way to get hot before getting home.

Twenty…. You can bring your man to the brink of paradise and keep him dangling there in heavenly suspense until he begs for mercy by giving him a series of all-over tantalising attention you would want him to give you; so start by caressing his penis carefully, not absentmindedly. Pay attention to how he is responding; give him more of what makes him breathe faster, more or sigh. If he is circumcised, use a slow, light, up-and-down stroke when his penis is not lubricated. You can also just trail your fingers up to the length of the shaft, and over and around the head. Since most men get erection first thing in the morning, you can set your alarm 15 minutes before you have to be up, strip down, take his hand in yours, and gently guide it over your body, lingering on your nipples and your clitoris. It is a big bang way to wake him up; many husbands love women who crave pleasure and take matters into their own hands…literally.

Twenty-one. … With your mind initiating good thought, fine-tune his touch during foreplay, guide his hand to your clitoris and show him how to touch you with the rhythm and firmness you like. Men are goal-oriented, so they often figure the faster and harder they work it down there, the more powerful your orgasm will be, which is why it is important for you to set the tone.

Try pressing and releasing his fingertip against your clitoris several times, then use his finger to make small circles in either direction to hit all of your nerves. For a twist that will turn you on, lie facing each other, take his penis, and use the tip of it to demonstrate how you like your clitoris to be touched. Manipulate his moves, when it comes to intercourse, it is easy to let clitoral action fall by the wayside, since the majority of positions fail to hit that hot spot. Moreover, that lack of contact is the main reason why so many wives have trouble reaching orgasm while doing the deed. To get clitoral stimulation during sex, hop on top, and have him stroke your clitoris (the thumb works well here). In the missionary position, grab his buttocks, and guide him to thrust slowly and deeply so your clitoris rubs against his pelvic bone. During doggie-style, he can reach around with one hand and firmly press two fingers on your clitoris for added sensation while he thrusts to help take you over the edge.

Twenty-two. …Husbands, what most wives want in bed is a man who knows how to control the timing of his ejaculation while love play is on so that both spouses will get the maximum pleasure from sex. One major reason many wives are not active sexually is because their anticipated sexual escapade and thrill is frustrated, cut short and curtailed by their husbands’ inability to control their ejaculation timing. But husbands, do you know that this can easily be achieved, that it is easy to develop complete self-control so that you can actually choose when to ejaculate during sex and when you have this level of control, your sexual self-confidence will be so high that you can confidently satisfy your wife in bed any time! All you need is to get 36-hours-of-freedom or the herbs from Vietnam. Get a full erectile dysfunction massaging. Also, are you thinking of what can permanently eliminate that premature ejaculation, make you last longer, avoid embarrassment and help you perform longer? Alternatively, are you afflicted with erectile dysfunction and weak erection? No more tears, no more broken marriage, get hard erections that last, get immediate results, get your wife back, get your marriage back, get big satisfaction. Is your spouse suffering from shrinking or small penis? The Chinese herb is still doing wonders.

Twenty-three. … Another way of doing this is to focus on the backside of your wife during foreplay; I am not referring to her buttocks. I mean literally the backside of her body. Most husbands probably usually focus on the front side of their wife’s body, which means they are neglecting a lot of nerve endings. So husbands, try standing behind your wife and start kissing the nape of her neck, then slowly move down her spine. This also puts you in the perfect position to reach around and cup her breasts or stimulate her manually.

Questions and answers

My wife always wants me to penetrate deeply

I have this issue that is giving me terrible concern. Each time we are having sex, my wife always wants me to penetrate deeply but I have noticed that each time I do that, I always hear a crack as if something has broken and now I’ve lost my erection.

Effiong Balafo

Probably what occurred is what’s called a penile fracture. It really isn’t a break like the break of a bone. But there are two chambers within the penis that hold the blood, the Corpora Cavernosa. And it’s a very thin-walled structure that becomes much distended, very tense, and that’s where the rigidity of the erection occurs. In certain rare circumstances, the torqueing, the stretch on that is enough to pop and crack one of those chambers. Naturally you will experience severe, excruciating pain, sudden disappearance of erection, horrible pain with blood. The penis will become purple; if the pain is not much, all you need is a time off from sex and taking things easy. And as time goes on, you should be fine. But if the pain is unbearable, you might likely go to the hospital. The major risk of this may be the scar from the healing of the tear and the blood, you can end up with penile curvature and even permanent impotence. The good news is it’s fairly rare, almost always occurs in very aggressive wild sex, usually women on top. What happens is the penis comes out of vaginal vault and then goes back in and misses, hits the pubic bone in the woman and that’s enough to force it and pop it. So, what you may likely be experiencing is overstressed penetrative activities, which I would suggest you calm down a little bit.

I produce less fluid while ejaculating

I am over 40 years old now and notice that I produce less fluid while ejaculating. Should I worry if I am producing less ejaculation?

Men of all categories seem to be obsessed with themselves as far as how they perform sexually. Ejaculatory volume and force seem to be something that they’re very proud of, and as men get older, there are changes going on within the prostate gland and the volume of actual fluid can decrease. And the intensity and experience can change. When you are physically fit, there is a possibility that you will still feel the same, the orgasm is unchanged, but there will be less volume and less force to it and that just is part of natural aging. It also has to do with stress, fatigue, frequency of ejaculation, intensity of ejaculation; all of those factors play into what you are experiencing.

What is your plan for us?

Hi Funmi, seems your column is a bit unfair to the young adults and the singles. In your column, you strictly insist it is not meant for us; yet, you never made any provision for us in any way whatsoever. Meanwhile thousands of singles and young adults out there are oblivious of the intricacies of marriage and sex in marriage. This is obvious in the rate of divorce in early marriages in our society. Mockingly, we are supposed to be the future generation, but I am afraid by that time, marriage would have been extinguished out of our nation and there will be no future to look forward to any longer. Don’t you have something for us?

Orogidi Mark, Enugu

Hi Mark, this column has lots in stock for the singles and the young adults. There are over 30 million singles in Nigeria and 70 per cent have been heartbroken already due to one bad relationship or the other and mismanagement of sex. In view of this, sex and sexuality column has already provided a free consultation forum since the inception of this column both for the singles and for all intending couples. All you need to do is just send a text message, WhatsApp message or emails to the columnist and detailed help will be rendered to you. In most of our replies, we make available tips that can keep marriage last for life, tips that will help singles and young adults find out common sense of togetherness, and we provide a high level of marital literacy. We have countless of other singles like you who have made good use of such opportunities.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]