Should a man donate sperm to help out an infertile family or friend?
Couples who have difficulty in having babies could receive sperm from a donor when the husband is tested to be infertile. The donated sperm is then used to fertilise the woman’s egg to conceive. Saturday Punch asked some Nigerians if it is advisable that a man donate sperm to help out an infertile friend or family member

If it’s a favour, it is dangerous – Ogunleke Stephen

For a man to donate sperm to help out his infertile friend or family member is not a bad move at all. But, it will be risky if it is done for free because the donor will come back in the future to claim the child especially if he is told he cannot have a child anymore. If money is involved, it is a business and papers are signed but if it’s a favour, it is extremely dangerous. To be on the safe side,

papers should be signed.

There should be a legal agreement – Oyewole Charles

There is nothing wrong in sperm donation but I would not advise a man to donate to a friend or family member except there is a legal agreement. If he donates sperm without signing any paper, he can always return to claim his child since he is the biological father. He can also use it as a means to extort the affected family. To avoid controversies in the future, there should be a legal agreement.

He will come back for the child – Daniel Johnson

It is risky for a man to donate sperm to a friend or relative because when it turns out to produce a child, the person who donated it might come back to claim the child. That child will carry the gene and traits of the man that donated the sperm. When he comes back to claim the child, if the family he donated the sperm to in the first place has no form of paper work, he will get back his child legally.

The child will take after the donor – Akinpelumi Williams

There is nothing wrong in a man donating his sperm to help an infertile friend or relative. However, a form of agreement must be reached between the couples and the donor. The reason is that the one who donates the sperm might claim he is the owner of the child since the child came from his sperm. If agreement is reached between both parties, there will be no cause for alarm. On the other hand, I will say it is wrong because the child might take after the donor when he or she is born.

It is abnormal – Olasunkanmi Philips

It is not a proper thing to do, regardless of his relationship with either of them. It’s a very risky move to make. He might be helping a friend or family in need but if on the long run, the donor cannot have a child of his own, he will come back for the one he donated sperm to be produced, especially if there was no paper signed. Refusal of the man to release the child to the original father might lead to threat of life.

Whoever is infertile should adopt children – Anigala Jennifer

No, a man should not donate sperm to help an infertile friend or relative because issues may arise in future. The man who donated the sperm may want to lay claim to the child when he is born and this may lead to quarrel or fight between such parties. Whoever is infertile can adopt children to avoid trouble in future.

Terms and conditions must apply – Angela Osango

It is okay for a man to donate sperm to help out a family or friend in need but, terms and conditions must apply like a form of paper signing and compensation. I do not see anything wrong in it; it is more like surrogacy in women. There should be a contract for the donor and the recipient to sign in case the donor changes his mind and demands the child once the baby is born.

Family and friend business in this aspect is dangerous – Damilola Williams

If a man donates his sperm to help out an infertile friend or family member, automatically, the baby belongs to him when it is born and it will cause a big problem in future. Whoever is in need of sperm is advised to get it from an unknown donor in the hospital. Just like the way some women go to donate their eggs in hospitals to help those who cannot conceive and they get paid. Family and friend business in this aspect is dangerous.

It might lead to a disaster – Akinloye Abdemi

Well, I don’t advise a man to donate sperm to his infertile friend or family because of the outcome in future. When the child grows up, the problem will start. The donor will want to claim his right over the child. In this case, the disadvantage is more than the advantage. Yes, he might be a souce of help to the recipient but without proper procedures carried out, it might lead to a disaster.

It is a deadly move – Tolani Olowu

It is a deadly move for a man to donate sperm to someone he knows. He will definitely come back for the child in future because after all, the child is his biologically. If the child becomes aware that the man he has been living with all along is not his biological father, he might break down emotionally. The recipient might see it as help but it is better and advisable that couples who can’t give birth to children adopt and be happy.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]