How to keep your woman from cheating
Finally, researchers have discovered the singular sex style that is capable of preventing a woman from going astray in a relationship!

For men who love to have a head, aka oral sex, with their women, researchers have said there are scientific reasons for that pastime, and that it is one huge way a man could keep his woman and prevent her from cheating!

The researchers claim that women love their men to perform oral sex on them, and that one of the reasons for that preference is as a result of evolution.

They add that women are likely to be more satisfied by a man who regularly performs oral sex on them.

In fact, it turns out that women may actually have evolved to be more attracted to men who regularly perform oral sex on them.

A research published in the Medical Daily draws this conclusion from a 2013 study of 243 men in long-term straight relationships.

The authors of this study tested to see if oral sex has a definitive evolutionary purpose for women, or whether it’s just harmless foreplay fun.

They found that women who regularly receive oral sex are more likely to be faithful, with oral sex representing a key strategy for men to retain their women and keep them happy.

Medical Daily wrote: “The research showed that men who were most likely to report getting their partner to orgasm during oral sex were more likely to think their woman was sought after by other men.

“Therefore, the more eager men are to please partners believed to have better options, the more likely they may be to perform cunnilingus to keep their mates from cheating.”

SEE ALSO: 65-year-old man says oral sex choked 60-year-old girlfriend, wants to show penis as proof

The study essentially found that women who are satisfied by their partners are much less likely to resort to cheating.

But biologists also believe that there is another reason why women have evolved to enjoy oral sex so much.

Sex experts claim that when women have oral sex performed on them before intercourse, it can drastically improve sex quality.

Not only does this increase the amount of arousal a woman feels, but it naturally lubricates things, which makes for higher quality sex.

Experts also claim that the same goes for men, with pre-sex oral offering a way for women to guarantee that their men are well lubricated and ready for reproduction.

“This means that all sorts of sexual behaviours can be traced back to evolutionary roots, when sex was a serious business and things had to be just right,” the research concluded.