23 ways to make sex as simple as A.B.C (1)
It has been discovered that the most important and satisfying things in life are as simple as ABC. So today, we are going to see many ABC of sex that you totally ignore or take for granted or are too myopic in your view to accept. Happy reading.

One … Many husbands want to know the secret of sexual adventures that can hit their wives hard and good. Well, it is as simple as ABC; just go down on their nipples, clitoris and vagina carefully. Nipples, clitoral and vaginal stimulation can be the high point of foreplay treat to any wife anytime. It can even be the main event of the night or an erotic need that couples return to frequently during a long luxurious sexual encounter. Manual stimulation is incredibly important for wives to have an orgasm. Most wives need a little more nipple, clitoral and vaginal contact than intercourse. Warm wet and intimate stimulation can be just as fun and satisfying as intercourse. Actually, 87 per cent of wives prefer nipples, clitoral and vaginal caressing to all other forms of foreplay. Many wives fantasise about lying back and having their husbands go down on them, but many cannot express it. Moreover, if you want to sexually pamper your wife or you want her to be consumed literally with enticing sexual feelings, try this out tonight.

READ: 10 things to say to get her naked this weekend!

Two … There is something about a husband feasting his eyes, hands and mouth on his wife’s nipples, clitoris and vagina that can take both of them into another world of ecstasy, bliss and elation. The sensation of the tongue on the nipples, clitoris and vagina is usually enough to make couples hysteric and hyperactive with pleasure. However, according to research, many husbands do not lick and suck the right places well or sometimes do not stay long enough to make their wives climax. We shall be looking at the nitty-gritty of nipples, clitoral and vaginal stimulation today. To fully comprehend and practise the instruction I would be giving, please bear these few facts in mind. During sex, reach down and rub your wife’s clitoris whenever possible and you are guaranteed to increase her chances of having orgasm. For many wives, manual stimulation of these areas is the only way they can climax. Rubbing the nipple, vagina and the clitoris the right way is not something husbands just know how to do, it is something they have to learn. When a wife’s vagina is not yet lubricated, never try to insert a finger or penis into it; that is pure legal raping.

Three … Studies have shown that husbands staring at their wives’ breast for 10 minutes a day can improve their total wellbeing. The human lips, tongues and genitals are the most sensitive areas of their bodies. The strongest muscle in the body is the tongue. The tip of the clitoris has 700 nerve endings, more than the head of the penis. The most sensitive part of a woman’s vagina is the first two inches; that is where the majority of the nerves endings are located. A woman’s skin is 10 times more sensitive to touch than men’s own. During arousal, increased blood flow causes a woman’s breast to swell by 25 per cent and when stimulated, the vagina expands to six inches long. As a wife is turned on, blood rushes to her vulva, causing the vagina to release a smooth liquid called ‘drops of Jupiter’. The average duration of a female orgasm is six seconds. The female Japanese word for orgasm is translated as ‘I have died and gone to heaven.’ Now carefully stimulating your wife’s nipples, clitoris and vagina can make her also utter this speech.

Four … One-step at a time is the best secret code, so while together, have your hands under her; then stroke her clitoris through her panties to build the anticipation of feeling your fingers against her wet skin. Even if you have seen your wife’s nakedness thousand times, don’t rush to take off her panties every time. Take the action to the next level by sliding your hand under her panties. There is more to the clitoris than meet the eyes, so don’t just rub the nub but start kissing your wife’s knee up to her inner thigh or from her navel down to her clitoris, then directly to her labia, and then find your way to her nipples. A wife’s inner thighs are very sensitive. Incredibly, some wives can even have orgasm just by massaging their feet. Starting your journey to the clitoris by kissing her thighs is still the best. This gives your wife intense pleasure and builds her anticipation for the thrill to come. Ask her to hold her legs up and out of the way, this allows you better access to the vagina. If you want to hear whether she is moaning with pleasure, ask her not to sandwich your ears with her thighs, you will be amazed with the varieties of ‘melodic rhythms’ coming your way!

READ ALSO: Seven ways to better engage your hands during sex

Five … Stimulate the clitoris and the surrounding areas with all your four fingers. Apply light/firm pressure using an up-and-down motion or slow circle. All these provide wonderful sensation and are helpful in bringing your wife to climax. You can vary the pressure and speed, depending on what she likes best. While on her clitoris, plant several little kisses and flips of the tongue directly around it. On the other hand, you can simultaneously insert your finger into her vagina and caress it as the clitoral kissing is going on, by using the thumb to drive her wide and using the other hand to rub her pubic heap. Husband; use the tip of your tongue to brush, tap, or flip the clitoris in an up and down and/or side-to-side motion. Try it slowly, then quickly, and even more quickly. The tap can be light or firm at a stage many wives could easily climax. Whoa, I am jealous of your wife already [laugh]

Six … The other variety of clitoral simulation is the figure ‘8’ technique. This helps you to cover the entire surface of the clitoris. All you need to do is use your tongue to draw letter 8 alphabets on the clitoris. Many husbands I have counselled have reported excellent results from this. You can also circle the clitoris with the tip of your tongue, try doing it very lightly and then with increased pressure, especially when your wife’s clitoris is very sensitive, she will prefer the kind of wide licks you would use when eating or licking an empty plate of tasty soup.

Seven … To win her heart, ask her to stand on a chair and go down on her; this makes her feel she is in control and it gives her a lot of freedom to move and respond and you will at this point have a fantastic view and full access to the ‘holy of holies’. Nothing impresses a wife as the ability to be ‘fingered’ when her husband is licking her clitoris. The best way to do this is to steadily lick the clitoris while very slowly sliding one or two fingers in and out of the vagina [so that your palm is facing up]. As she gets more excited, try maintaining a steady, gentleman pulsing pressure on the front [pubic hair] inside wall of the vagina, which is where the ‘G’ spot is located. The vagina can seem complicated if the husband has not got up close and examined it well. To get to know it well and learn how best to please your wife, position yourself between her widely spread legs to get a good view and then start rubbing in different directions and watch what she responds to best. Notice the hood of the clitoris and the thin layer that covers it. Husbands can pull it back to expose the clitoris for ‘excellent servicing’.

Eight … Some wives love being fingered from behind; it is so thrilling. Just bend your wife over the bed, the reading table, a chair, or the couch and massage her bottom while you stimulate her clitoris and vagina.

You can make your wife go ‘cowboy’ position by sitting upright and grinding her hips back and forth or rising and lowering her body straight up and down on your penis. By this, she can change the angle of your penis inside her vagina. Then let her lean back as this will bring the head of your penis in close contact with her ‘G’ spot while you have unlimited access to caress her clitoris, with one hand and the other hand can give her breasts plenty of attention, by massaging them or kissing and sucking her nipples. One thing is guaranteed with your wife maintaining a ‘cowboy’ position; there is no dull moment. Wife, you must be equally active and attentive. For instance, touching yourself in front of your husband can tell him what you want; rub your clitoris against his pubic hair, while sex is in progress. You can lean back on him, make your clitoris a focal point for pleasure, and give him the honour of stimulating it. Some wives in their childbearing age sometimes tell me this may not be possible with them but I know it can because childbirth can increase blood supply to the vagina, making it more responsive and ready for action.

Wives, let’s imagine what sex would be like if every time you made love, you enjoyed fulfilling sex and real connection with your husband. The kind of sex that satisfies you both at the deepest level, sex that is about feeling love, sex from the soul for the soul. Imagine what it will mean to your sex life when you know the simple ABC, various unbelievable, incredible and fantastic ways you can pleasure him; such pleasure that can take you both to the highest levels of sexual contentment.

Ok, not to waste time, let us see the simple ABC of such pleasure.

Nine. … Wife, do you know that mere licking your husband’s spine from top to bottom especially when your tongue is close to his buttocks can set him ablaze, because there are untold numbers of nerve endings carefully distributed there. Well, most wives never find out the tips and tricks that make sex wildly passionate and never learn how to truly entertain their husbands. In fact, many wives never discover how good sex can actually be. There are so many wonderful ways spouses can share provoking sex together. These ways can strengthen couples’ relationship and keep them in good sexual health.

Ten … For instance, while your husband is on the phone, stroll in, undress seductively in front of him or stand behind him, and take hold of his penis without saying a word and begin to kiss it and stroke it. Make sure you are wearing a short skirt with no underwear. Tell him that, at some point, you are going to bend over, you want him to take you there and there, and you want it hot, sizzling and fiery. In addition, you can bend over the arm of a sofa, and have your husband take you from behind. Make this move more passionate by sitting him down with his legs open, straddle him, and lower yourself onto his open lap and make sure the penis goes straight into your vagina. If he does not miss his target, it will feel as if a parachute just entered you. Have him wrap his legs around your buttocks as you wrap yours around his waist, then lean away from each other with your hands flat behind you. Thrust back and forth while rotating your hips. Lightly take a caressing grip on the nipples of your husband during sex and calmly squeeze them concurrently with every thrust. The mix of erotic pleasure on his nipples and the pleasure of thrusting in and out undoubtedly takes many husbands over the top.

Eleven. … Have you ever thought of making sex a mini erotic time together? Take a sip of red wine, don’t swallow it immediately. Then drop a mint into your mouth with the wine, gaggle the wine before swallow; then put his penis in your mouth. You would notice that the bubbles would dissolve the mint faster and your tongue would produce a tingly feel that would make him almost explode when you put his penis in to your mouth and gently lick it seductively. Wives please, your husband’s penis is all yours as a tool to play with; do not be afraid to touch it. Take hold of it in an erotic manner and playfully but gently run it over your neck, breasts, thighs and tip of your vagina before returning it to your tongue. Act pleasurably by surprising him with some erotic groaning like mmm or oooh while touching his penis. This always enhances his performance. Rub lotion along your inner thighs, and have him slide his penis in and out between them. When a wife fondles her breasts in front of her husband, it turns an average sex into awesome sex. If she now licks them or flicks her tongue toward her nipples, it becomes out of this world for many husbands. If you would ask me, I would frankly tell you that these and many more are the tricks of ‘call girls.’

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]