Four places you shouldn’t touch during sex
Unless you want it to stop, there are practically some no-go areas when it comes to having sex with your woman, sexologists have warned.

You should avoid touching the following areas during sex…

• Her cervix

If you reach her cervix during sex, recognise that something is wrong. Remember, this is the narrow canal that connects the vagina to the womb. That isn’t a place you want to go, so don’t knock on the door.

For starters, it’s painful for her to have something rammed against her cervix, and it could be a sign that you need to shift for a position with shallower penetration.

But it could also mean that she isn’t warmed up enough. Her womb will actually “lift” upwards when she’s sexually aroused, making her vaginal cavity a few inches deeper than when she isn’t turned on. So, engage in more foreplay, and don’t service her cervix.

• The head of her clitoris

This might seem counterintuitive, but the clitoris — which is full of super sensitive nerve endings —can sometimes feel too intense when it’s stimulated directly. Touching the clitoris head-on, especially if she’s really aroused, can feel too severe.

Think about that feeling when you gulp an ice-cold beverage and your teeth start to tingle — it’s just not pleasant. Instead, try going for the shaft of her clitoris or rubbing circles around it, which will engage the nerve endings without overstimulating her.

• Her feet

Especially if she’s wearing a pair of socks. A study from Johns Hopkins University showed that wearing socks during sex can increase orgasm potential for both men and women.

One potential reason: In order to orgasm, women need to be totally relaxed and anxiety-free, and cold feet can interfere with their ability to really get into sex.

• Her anus

Unless you’re fully lubricated, don’t go near her anus! Anal play can take plenty of warming up, but even when she’s totally aroused and ready to get it on, nothing should go in there without a generous helping of lubricant. The anal opening is small enough that even a finger can feel uncomfortable.

A study from the Journal of Sexual Medicine found that women rate their sexual satisfaction much higher when lubrication is involved.