Would you still marry your lover if you discovered a week to your wedding that they can not have children?
Angel George and Sandra Ogunfiditi

A week to a wedding, both families of the couple would be upbeat with preparations to make sure that all arrangements are made for a successful ceremony. But Saturday Punch asked Nigerians whether during such preparation, they would still go ahead to wed if they found out their intended life partner can’t have children

Happiness and growth matter most in marriage

Olayiwola Oluseye

In all honesty, it is going to be a tough one but I am going to continue with the wedding plans because there is no challenge that God cannot solve. What if after the marriage, she doesn’t bear me children despite the fact that she is medically fit or on the long run of our marriage, God forbid something happens to the kids and she has reached menopause and can’t bear kids again? Not all marriages are destined to produce kids; we can easily adopt and live happily. What matters most in marriage is happiness and growth in all areas.

Every woman wants the feel of motherhood

Benedicta Ugbo

Well, if the problem is medical and can be corrected, I will stay with him. But if the issue cannot be solved medically, I will be left with no choice but to call off the wedding plans because every woman wants a feel of motherhood. How far we have come in the courtship does not matter but how well we will have to go. If I say God can make it happen and for years I don’t conceive, his mother might think I am the one with the problem and she will frustrate me not knowing that her son is the problem. Life will be easier if we are sincere to ourselves.

I will ask God for a direction

Aromolaran Adedoyin

I might need to put the wedding plans on hold first to be sure it is what I want and to pray about it. If God asks me to marry her, I will because He is the one that gives children. There are a lot of women who are medically alright but still don’t have kids. So, I will follow God’s leading carefully. You can’t choose to follow God and lose and my mother does not need to know about it because, some things are better left unsaid.

I will cancel the wedding plans immediately

Bisola Togun

There are no two ways to an issue like this because I will cancel the wedding plans immediately. A marriage between a man and a woman is a lifetime contract and in the family where I come from, once you are married, there is no turning back. I don’t need to waste time. Yes, we would have come a long way for us to be getting married but which woman does not want to be called a mother? And I am sure he would have known about the problem too and finding out before being joined together is the best thing so I don’t end up filled with regrets.

I will cancel the wedding plans

Fadare Emmanuel

Well, if such a thing should happen, I will stop the wedding plans with her because to me, the primary essence of marriage is to bear fruit. The years we have spent together is nothing compared to the risk in accepting to continue with the wedding plans. Adopting children can never be like my own offspring. I love her but I am an African and I need to have my own children and not take care of another man’s kids. I will cancel the plans as I am not the one responsible for her predicament.

I will marry him

Esther Elisha

I will not end my wedding plans to my fiancée a week to my wedding because of that. Rather, I will continue with the ceremony. God is the giver of children and because of this; I will allow him take control. There are ways to have children, we can adopt. For him to propose to me and has come this far with me, it means we love and understand each other perfectly and love conquers all. I will marry him.

I want an heir to my name

Ayilola Ayodele

If I discover my lover and I can’t have children together a week to our wedding, I won’t marry her, especially if the fault is not coming from me. One of the priorities of getting married is to have children and I want an heir to my name. I want to be called a daddy. Adoption is also another option but, it has many demerits. So the best thing is for us to end the wedding now that we haven’t been joined in holy matrimony.

The time we courted would be a memory

Adesola oyindamola

I won’t marry him if I find out a week to our wedding we can’t have children. Every relationship requires healthy doses of tolerance, patience and willingness to work it out, but there are times when separation may be the best thing to do. I would not put the time we had spent together as a waste but as a memory. I want to be called a mother and not adopt someone else’s child.

The wedding may have to be postponed

Odidika Charles

It all depends on the reason behind us not being able to give birth in future. If it’s a medical issue that can be cured, I would go ahead with the wedding plans regardless. But if it can’t be cured, it would take the grace of God for the wedding to go ahead. Yes, I love her but it will be difficult for me to know about such a situation and still marry her legally. The wedding plans would have to stop or maybe be postponed so that I can think properly and seek God’s face. A marriage is a lifetime agreement and decisions have to be made carefully.

True love conquers all

Akinsulire Aanuoluwapo

We love each other and marriage isn’t all about children. I would not because of such issue break up with the man I love and have decided to spend my life with a week to our wedding ceremony. Thank God it is easier these days and we would adopt children, it will be a secret between us. True love conquers all. I will take care of the children we will adopt like they were from my womb.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]