Things to consider when changing apartments
Ihuoma Chiedozie

In a recent post, which went viral on social media, a Nigerian lady lamented after an apartment she had just packed into was demolished by the government. The lady had only stayed in the one-bedroomed apartment, located in Opebi, Lagos, for two months before it was brought down.

Apparently, the Lagos State Government had already marked the building which had the apartment for demolition before the unfortunate lady rented it.

An element of fraud was also involved in the matter – according to the lady’s account, the owner of the house and the caretaker scammed her and other occupants of the building by repainting the house after it was marked for demolition, and rented it out to unsuspecting members of the public.

Narrating her travails in the post, the lady said, “I paid the sum of N300,000 on March 25, 2019 to the caretaker’s account. I also renovated the toilet, kitchen and the room window. I fixed new tiles and fixed problems with the plumbing.

“On Friday, May 17, 2019, my neighbour called me from work that our house was being demolished. I rushed down and lo and behold, Lagos State Task Force had already started demolishing the building.

“I rushed in to see if I could be able to get a few things, but the dust was too much for my lungs. I started choking and I was unable to breathe, so I ran out when I had an asthmatic attack.

“I became unconscious and was rushed to Lagos State Emergency and Accident Centre, Ojota.”

The caretaker and the owner of the house have stopped answering the lady’s phone calls since the incident.

The sordid experience which the lady had to go through is the biggest fear of most people who are looking for new apartments – there is always a chance that they could fall victim to fraudsters. Beyond the risk of being defrauded, there is also the danger of ending up in an apartment you will not like to live in.

Choosing an apartment can be difficult at times but in order to avoid the sort of ugly experience suffered by the lady, there are some important things you should consider before renting an apartment. Renting an apartment can be quite expensive so you need to establish a budget and then start searching for an apartment within that budget. The location is also important, as well as other factors which are:

Budget

Highlighting the factors that should be considered before renting an apartment, an estate surveyor and valuer, Temitayo Abe, noted that budget should be determined first.

“First of all, there has to be an alignment between your budget and what you want,” Abe said in a chat with Saturday PUNCH.

When considering budget, you should bear in mind that the rent will have to be renewed. Unless you are moving into your own house soon, you should look for an apartment you can renew without much difficulty.

You do not want to be evicted from the apartment due to your inability to renew the rent so you need to ensure that you have a stable income to support the fees associated with rent.

Mobility

Abe further observed that mobility should be taken into consideration whenever one is looking for a new apartment.

“You have to think about commuting to your workplace and other places– there are some places you will live in and it will be like living in hell. You have to consider how you will go out and come in. If you live within some estates and you don’t have a car, things will be very difficult for you,” he said.

The location is a huge factor when choosing an apartment. It is usually cost effective when you select an apartment that is near the workplace. You will spend less money on commuting from your apartment to work. Do you like the urban or rural area? Will the apartment be close to the hospital and shopping areas? These things are really important when you decide to rent an apartment.

If there is an emergency, you want to ensure that you can access healthcare facilities quickly.

Marital status

“If you are a married man and you want an apartment, the things you will look out for will be different from the things a single individual will look for,” Abe said. As a parent, you will consider how the location of the apartment, and the apartment itself, will affect members of your family.

In this case, issues to consider include proximity and access to the children’s school, healthcare facilities, as well as recreational and neighbourhood centres. If you don’t intend to change your kids’ schools, it is best if you get an apartment that is not far from their school. Moving far away could require a change of school, which might be disruptive to their educational well-being.

Security

“You have to look at the security of the area. Find out how secure the area you want to move to is. You don’t want to move into an area where you will always sleep with one eye open,” Abe said.

Security is a major factor that should be given all the needed consideration whenever you are changing apartments. You want to select an apartment that is safe for you and your family. Read up on the location and find out if the area is prone to crime.

If you are a female living alone, you need to consider if the apartment has a gated complex. Does the apartment have surveillance and protection? Does the place have security? Do the windows, doors, and gate offer maximum security? You need to think about your safety and choose an apartment that can provide maximum security.

History of rent increment

When changing apartments, endeavour to find out the ‘history of rent increment’ in the place you are planning to move to.

“There are some apartments that have a history of having a new tenant every one or two years due to increment in rent. In some cases, the landlord will offer you an attractive rent when you are moving in but the following year they are jerking up the rent and they don’t care if you move out. Some landlords do this intentionally so that they can be collecting agreement fee every time from new tenants, apart from the rent,” Abe said.

Outstanding utility bills

Always remember to enquire about outstanding utility bills, such as electricity and water charges, before you move into a new apartment.

In many cases, people move into new apartments only to be confronted with huge outstanding bills. This is particularly so in situations where the estimated billing method is being used to charge for electricity. It is best to go for an apartment where a prepaid electricity meter has been installed.

However, according to Abe, if there are outstanding bills, and the apartment has no prepaid meter, you can reach an agreement with the owner of the building, or the caretaker, that you will not be involved in clearing the debt if you move in.

Find out if the property is under litigation, or about to be sold

Just like the Opebi, Lagos building which was demolished just two months after the lady in the viral video rented it, some apartments that are put up for rent have already been slated for demolition. Before you pay up, find out the state of the apartment you want to move into.

Also ascertain if the apartment is up for sale – you don’t want to be confronted by new owners, who might not honour the rent agreement you entered into with the former landlord, just days after you moved in.

View and inspect the apartment

You want to ensure that you are comfortable when you move in. It is advised that you visit the apartment and see if you like it. Don’t just look at pictures but view the apartment in person. Is it clean and in excellent conditions? Are there any repairs that need to be done before you move in? Would you like the landlord to change anything? Try using all appliances and see if they are in good conditions.

In fact, experts advise that the best time to change apartments is during the rainy season, when you can easily ascertain the ‘true’ state of the environment, especially when it rains. Some areas are prone to flooding, it is better you find out before you move in, to avoid bitter disappointment and inconvenience, afterwards. Inspecting the apartment will also help you identify some issues that could become a problem, if you are to move in.

“Is the building overcrowded? Are there problems with parking of cars? If you have a car, you need to be sure that the car will be parked inside the compound,” Abe added.

Can you decorate your apartment?

People like to decorate their apartments to suit their personalities. There are apartments that you have to keep in its original condition. In cases where you don’t have to alter the state of the apartment, it is usually spelt out in the agreement. To avoid disputes, go for an apartment which has agreements that suit your taste and style.

Personal space

Do you like to share with others or do you prefer your own bathroom, kitchen and living area? Some apartments offer shared facilities that may not be appealing to you. If you like your own personal space, then you should inquire about an apartment that is not shared. However, if you are working on a budget, you will not be able to afford the luxury of a personal space. You will need to share with other people. Be prepared to adjust and accommodate to living among strangers.

History of the landlord

Before you rent an apartment, you should try to find out some information on the landlord such as his relationship with previous tenants. You can talk to old tenants about their experience. They will give you some information and advice. You cannot tell if the landlord is reliable by just meeting or interviewing him once.

Read your contract carefully before signing

One of the most common mistakes among renters is not reading their contract. They quickly sign it because they need a place to stay and they end up breaking some rules which attract additional expenses. You need to be satisfied with the conditions that are presented in the contract. If you don’t understand them, ask questions. Make sure everything is clear before you sign.

Additional source: technobezz.com

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]