Would you sacrifice your job to save your marriage?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

There may come a time in life when one has to choose between a job and one’s marriage. It could be because of distance or the nature of the job. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians if they would sacrifice their jobs to save their homes. Here are their responses:

I will let my job go – Olubunmi Ajibade

There are three relationships that are very critical in the life of a normal human being: relationship with God, relationship with family and relationship with others. My marriage falls within the second category. If there is conflict between my marriage and my job, the most sensible thing to do is to let my job go. Basically, I need adequate time to stay with my family. This is not negotiable. I resigned from my first job because I did not have enough time for my wife when I newly got married. I think at that time, it was the wisest decision to take. I was always out of the house for up to 14 to 16 hours daily. Then, I was Assistant News Editor and still had to handle the energy beat. I also had to produce four pages of Industry and Energy reports weekly. All these really took a large chunk out of my time. Though it is good to get money to pay bills and keep the family going, it is only a family that is intact that one can keep going. There are some things money cannot buy. One of them is the joy of family life. This matter requires setting priorities right. The right order is God-family-work. If any of the components is out of alignment, there will be crisis.

No, I won’t do that – Dagogo Theophilus Igani

I will not sacrifice my job to save my marriage because if I lose my job, there won’t be any marriage. If some of the issues are about money, time or location, I will rather strike a balance. It is right if someone refuses to leave their job to save their marriage. Like I said earlier, when there is money to feed a family in marriage, everyone is happy.

Experience has taught me to put marriage first – Ehis Edewor

Personally, my marriage is more important to me than my job. My marriage is a spiritual covenant, on which most of the other things that affect me or relate to my life, is built. Marriage makes you one spirit and one flesh with your spouse. Therefore, it’s very important and cannot be taken for granted. You can’t go to work if you are sick. In the same way, you cannot be your best at work if your marriage is sick. I have seen really productive men, whose productivity is inspired by the happiness and peace they have in their home. Marriage is a commitment to make your spouse a happy and fulfilled individual. Therefore, if for any reason, there is a situation where I have to choose between my job and marriage, I’d choose marriage.

Nothing should be placed above marriage -Atinosola Pelumi Oladipupo

After salvation, my marriage is the most important relationship to me that I can’t afford to lose. What’s the essence of a job without a family? Well, marriage means different things to different people but what it means to me is that nothing should be placed above it. I look forward to spending time with my family every day no matter what comes up at work; it is my place of comfort and peace. I have heard about cases of men whose female bosses insisted that they must have sexual relationship with them before getting promoted. I know that a few men will decline while some will go ahead with the offer, on the basis that they need the job to sustain their family. I will say that you don’t need your job to hold your marriage together; your marriage will survive with or without a job. I usually say you don’t need so much money to be the head of the house and run the house; you just have to be accountable and plain to your spouse, money isn’t everything.

The emotional, physical and spiritual well-being of a man can be dependent on the marriage; therefore, if you are not stable in these three areas, it will soon affect your job. We should know that marriage is sacred and it requires quality time for it to thrive.

It will depend on the issues involved – Chisom Okechukwu

I can sacrifice my job to save my marriage. I can do that if there is a situation whereby I’m required to commit adultery as a precondition for career advancement or promotion in the office. Refusing to leave your job depends on if the reason is worthy or not. Your spouse can’t ask you to leave your job because of a flimsy reason. I can only advise a spouse to leave their job if they are required to commit a sin there or be involved in adultery, fraud or what destroys their faith in God.

I can make that sacrifice to care for my children – Folasade Oluwabunmi Falaju

Marriage is not designed for husband and wife to live apart. In my experience in counselling wives, I have come to realise that there are certain issues that could be prevented in a marriage if a couple do not live apart. I know that sometimes, living apart might be unavoidable but it shouldn’t be for too long. Secondly, if you are being harassed sexually by your superior at work, then that job is a threat to your marriage. For instance, I once left my job to relocate with my husband because I strongly believed that a couple should try as much as possible to be together. Also, I will gladly leave my job to care for my children. These children won’t be young forever. If I do not have a good support system for them, then I should be with them at such a vulnerable period of their lives. It is important to state that leaving your job as a woman for the sake of your marriage or any other reason does not necessarily mean you will be totally dependent on your husband, especially in this era of social media.

Yes, a job is a contract – Josephine Metseagharun

I will sacrifice my job to save my marriage. Marriage is a covenant and it is ‘till death do us part’, but a job is a contract that can be terminated at any time. One day, your employer may decide that your services are no longer required and drop you for another.

It depends on some factors – Rokanmi Orunmuyi

It depends on a number of factors. First, why is the job a threat to my marriage? There are some possible reasons I can think of. One is distance, that is, if my husband and I work in different states or maybe even different countries and the distance is putting a strain on our marriage. Another reason is if the home front is suffering (i.e. the welfare of the children) and this in turn threatens the marriage.

Another factor is the type of job in question; if it’s just a means to an end. For any of the two reasons I mentioned, I can sacrifice my job for my marriage.

However, if it’s a job that I’m passionate about and derive satisfaction and fulfilment from, then we will have to explore other conflict resolution options that will not require me to leave my job. Marriage is great; I’ve been happily married for over 10 years. Life consists of many components and marriage is only one of them. With marriage comes sacrifice but many sacrifice the whole essence of their being for their marriages and they end up living a life that is devoid of fulfilment.

Yes, family is paramount – Modupe Olanrewaju Bello

I will sacrifice my job to save my marriage; my family is paramount. This is because many of us are career couples; we leave our children to outsiders to watch over which is detrimental to their future because we all have our different values to uphold. In a home where they don’t see anything wrong in a child going out late in the night, you can be sure that the child may be exposed to different things outside their home.

For example, in my home, nobody stays out late except if there is a cogent reason. If I leave them with outsiders; I might be exposing my children to some dangers.

My husband may need more time and attention – Bukola Daramola

Marriage is a union between a man and a woman who come together legally to become husband and wife. Marriage has to do with love, understanding, maturity, unity, responsibility, caring, etc. Yes, I can sacrifice my job to save my marriage. My reason for leaving my job would be if there’s lack of time and attention for my family. Men also need time and attention. For instance, what if something has been bothering him and he needs me to be there for him but because of office work, I am not available to be there for him. It could be about his work or finances and he may need me to cheer him up but work may not permit me to do that. Most people commit suicide because they are neglected or aren’t given enough time and attention.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]