Mental health are simple signs you both ignore
Elizabeth Badejo

There has been significant evidence to show that marriage is a great remedy for mental health, considering the fact that building a close-knit relationship during adulthood and old age is associated with better health physically, emotionally and spiritually. The high rate of loneliness today can be attributed to factors such as staying single out of choice or chance; being in a stable relationship can mean less stress and less depression. However, a miserable marriage can also indicate that a spouse’s behaviour is as a result of a mental health disorder or alert.

As complex as mental health may sound to a lot of people, couples who spend quality time together are more likely to recognise signs and changes in their partner’s behaviour, especially those that have been continuous and unresponsive to change.

MOOD SWINGS

Even though everyone has mood swings, it can become a concern when you can no longer predict your spouse’s behaviour. If their mood becomes aggressive, intimidating and is constantly triggered by the smallest provocation, it can be a sign of mental illness, which can have adverse effect on your marriage and your well-being also. Marriage is for better or worse and just as you are quick to recognise those aspects of your partner that make your lives so beautiful together, you must also be able to recognise the worrying signs that can overtake the great moments that you share together as a couple.

CHANGES IN ROUTINE

It is not difficult to notice changes in a spouse who once had a stable routine and suddenly becomes very uninterested in things that meant everything to them. Perhaps she is no longer the wife and mother you once knew and has lost interest in taking care of self and her home. It is as simple as being the supermum who wakes up at 5.30am to get the children and spouse ready for school and work to being the woman who cries all day in bed, terrified of communicating her feelings to her spouse as he may never really understand.

ABSENT-MINDEDNESS

If you or your spouse is constantly forgetting very important tasks, missing appointments and not turning up at events after making promises to families and friends, it could be a sign of depression. Depression is associated with cognitive disorder in every two out of five adults. Your spouse is no longer present with you or anyone and definitely not interested in chatting or doing fun things. Perhaps he has switched from being the most impeccable family man to becoming extremely disorganised and disoriented because depression has set in.

POOR HYGIENE

When your spouse suddenly starts to find their personal care a demanding and depressing task to achieve, it is a worrying sign that you should not ignore. Depression impacts negatively on sufferer’s personal hygiene because life becomes worthless in their own mind and caring for self will certainly become the least priority at that moment in time. Signs of self neglect should not always be seen as being irresponsible but rather a cry for help if you simply care enough.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]