At what age should an adult leave their parents’ house?
There comes a time in the life of a child when they have to leave their parents’ home and seek their own path. Many people believe that this should be done when a child is old enough. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians what age a child can be said to be old enough to leave their parents’ home, and here are their responses

24 for men, 30 for women

Odumusi Bolanle

Men should leave their parents’ house at the age of 24. They don’t necessarily have to rent an apartment; they can stay with their friends. At the age of 27, they should be fully independent and must have understood the concept of how life works. Leaving their parents’ home would give them a good sense of responsibility, privacy, ability to think and concentrate without parental distractions. I will advise a female child to stay with her parents – if the home is conducive enough for her – until she’s in a relationship. However, if she is working and buoyant enough to rent an apartment that is closer to her office than her parents’ house; then it’s fine. But the condition should be that she would have a female friend or sibling staying with her. Living alone sometimes is fun but if not properly managed as a lady, a lot of mistakes are bound to happen. I left my parents’ house when I was 28 years old for a ‘mini flat’ (an apartment that has a bedroom, a sitting room, kitchen, bathroom and toilet). It gave me a full sense of responsibility, but along the line, I lost it because I became lonely and felt dejected. I made two costly relationship mistakes with men. It hurt badly but those mistakes strengthened me. Above all, I will advise a woman to stay alone when she’s in her 30s. She should leave her comfort zone; it will help her a lot.

There should be no specific time for it

Oladepo Olayemi Adeola

There shouldn’t be a specific time for someone to move out of their parents’ house. Whether you are a man or woman, it’s your parents’ house. You should be allowed to stay there until you can be responsible for yourself. In a good economy, in your early 20s you should already have a direction for your life. However, here in Nigeria, some people are still battling with Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (university entrance examination) in their early 20s. My opinion is that people should stay in their parents’ house pending when they can fend for themselves and be responsible for themselves. For women, if her job takes her away from the state where her parents are located, she has to be responsible for herself and stay alone. Also, at some point in the life of an individual, they will need some form of privacy. However, it’s a personal decision. If you are not ready, don’t move out. The street is not smiling. I’ll advise young men and women to take their time; they shouldn’t try to be independent and end up being homeless.

From age 21 is fine

Oluwaseyifunmi Gold

Unmarried adults with gainful employment or in profitable business ventures should learn to be independent and stay alone at the age of 21. I feel that what is expected of men is equally expected of women; there shouldn’t be any difference.

It is very appropriate for a child to leave their parents at some point to experience freedom and become more responsible. As a parent, I would encourage my children to be independent and self-sufficient.

There is no shame in staying with one’s parents

Bello Oluwaseyi

When a man is 25 years old, he should be allowed to stay on his own provided he is done with university education; this will enable him to strategise, organise and build his life for the future. For women, I think they can stay in their parent’s house until they are ready for marriage, except they are not in the same town/city with their parents because of their job. People usually respect a woman who stays with her family members more than those who stay alone. Parents should allow their children, especially the male ones to stay alone if they wish to do so once they are at least 25 years old, provided they can take care of themselves. But it is imperative to know that there is no shame in staying with one’s parents.

Maturity is important

Ijeoma Nwoye

Age has no role when it comes to living alone. For men, as far as they are working and doing well for themselves; they should be able to stay alone, fend for themselves and provide for their daily needs and wants. It could be when they are 25, 27 or 29. Even though some men become independent at age 23, I don’t think it’s advisable to let them live alone because they may not be mature enough. Maturity is important. An unmarried man should stay alone so that he would be able to make certain decisions on his own without his parents and relatives interfering. Living alone and handling responsibilities will prepare him for the future.

For women, my mum used to tell me that in our land (Anambra State), a woman is not allowed to live alone. I have seen it happen in my state; a woman who was very wealthy was not allowed to stay alone or buy herself a car.

It depends on many factors

David Aderemi Oluwadare

Staying alone depends on a number of factors and it has its advantages and disadvantages. Staying alone means you’ve had a level of maturity – physically, spiritually, mentally, emotionally and financially. It is right for a man to stay alone if he has maturity in these areas. Even if he doesn’t have it, staying alone will improve his level of maturity as he’ll have to confront challenges that will help him achieve that. I believe parents should encourage their children to stay alone so that they can learn how to handle responsibilities after graduating from tertiary institutions. The major benefits of staying alone is that it improves one’s level of reasoning, maturity and sense of responsibility, thereby preparing one perfectly for marriage.

A single woman living alone may be seen as a prostitute

Uche Jessica Obodoechi

My view is that men are not supposed to be seen in their parents’ house at the age of 25. At 25, he is considered a grown man and should be able to fend for himself and start a future by working so as to prepare himself for marriage and also take some burden off his parents.

For women, in Africa, a responsible lady is expected to be in her parents’ house until a man comes for her. A grown single woman seen staying alone may be seen as a prostitute.

It’s about stage, not age

Bosun Dare

For men and women, there should be no specific age to leave their parents’ house. Rather, it should be about a stage in their life. This stage can include a state of comfortable financial well-being or a state of developed sense of reasoning. The goal is to get prepared for adulthood, not get thrown into adulthood. However, when the man or woman begins to get too comfortable due to excessive parental care, then at this stage, the guardian of such a person should start to initiate conversations that will enable their ward prepare for adult life.

It is right for a man or woman to stay alone prior to getting married because staying alone is a form of adjustment to maturity. Staying alone can help personal development and help the individual to mature.

It’s not wrong for single men and women to live alone

Rita Ali

Men should leave their parents’ house by the time they are 30 years old because at that age, they should be wise and strong enough to face any challenge. For women, they are expected to leave their parents’ house when they are ready to settle down for marriage except in a situation where the woman’s place of work is far from her parents’ house. It is not wrong for men and women to stay alone if they are not married.

Men should leave before marriage

Chukuma Nwachukwu

Living alone has a way of making people responsible and it should be encouraged by parents, especially for the man before he gets married. For a woman, it will depend on some circumstances. Logically, it is not wrong for an unmarried woman to live on her own but it is perceived by the society as too much freedom.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]