How much is ‘too much’ to spend on ‘aso ebi’
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

The use of ‘aso ebi’ (uniform fabrics) at parties and other events is commonplace in some parts of the country, particularly in the South-West. However, there have been divided opinions about how much ‘aso ebi’ should cost, as some have been deemed to be too expensive. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians how much they think is too much to pay for ‘aso ebi’. Here are their responses

N20,000 is too much for ‘aso ebi’ – Bola Olarere

Most of the time, we try to impress other people by doing things that add little or no value to us. The idea of ‘aso ebi’ has gone beyond its original purpose. For instance, it is called ‘aso ebi’, and therefore, it should strictly be for the family member (Ebi). However, because many people want to commercialise their events; they pressurise their friends to partake in things that are meant for only family members. I don’t really like the idea of buying ‘aso ebi’ irrespective of how cheap or expensive it is. I believe it puts too much pressure on people and it is a form of show-off. I have friends whose wardrobes are filled with several uniform fabrics that they do not need. People should be allowed to choose the type of cloth they want for an event. If someone should tell me their ‘aso ebi’ is N20, 000; I would decline.

Between N3,000 and N5,000 is fine – Nweke Chigozie

To me, ‘Aso ebi’ is a Yoruba tradition which has been adopted by other tribes. Today, intending couples try to raise funds for their wedding by selling ‘aso ebi’ and they impose it on their friends and families at a very high price. People who do this see weddings as avenues to generate funds rather than the real essence of the ceremony, which is to celebrate marital bliss. No one should impose ‘aso ebi’ on anyone. If friends want to celebrate with someone, the fabric should range from N3, 000 to N5, 000 depending on the quality of the fabric. Anything higher than this is too much. Forcing people to buy ‘aso ebi’ is wrong and selfish. Wedding ceremonies, for example, is an invitation for people to be merry and raise funds.

It should not cost more than N55, 000 – Oladimeji Daniel Adeoye

The use of ‘aso ebi’ in our society is now seen as a form of competition. Some people are ashamed if they can’t buy ‘aso ebi’ for an event. There is no need to force the use of ‘aso ebi’ on friends. When friends are forced to use ‘aso ebi’ and they are not rich enough to afford it, they may be constrained to get loans to get it. Personally, I think the highest amount ‘aso ebi’ should go for is around N50, 000 to N55, 000. When it’s getting beyond this price range, I will back out.

Above N50, 000 is not okay – Sontyo Jimin James

Spending N50, 000 on ‘aso ebi’ is fine, in my view. I have bought at that price and below it but may not likely buy if it costs more.

People should not be forced to buy ‘aso ebi’ but the problem is that individuals are forced to buy it indirectly, because of friendship, for example, even when they don’t want it. Most of the time, ‘aso ebi’ is usually not of good quality; it is used as a fundraising mechanism.

I have never been forced to buy ‘aso ebi’; I do it for friendship sake. However, it gets annoying when the person in charge of collecting money repeatedly reminds you of making payments for the fabric.

Anything above N30, 000 is unreasonable – Freeman Adeshina

‘Aso ebi’ is traditionally worn in Nigeria and some West African countries as an indication of cooperation and solidarity during ceremonies and festive periods. Social media has ‘hyped’ the importance of ‘aso ebi’, the value and the price too. Most times, the market price of ‘aso ebi’ depends largely on how much it will cost. But I have seen cases where the couple makes the price too outrageous in order to make profit from it; that is bad.

The price of ‘aso ebi’ should be kept minimal irrespective of how rich you are; it’s not a competition, there is a high possibility that one might not wear it again or for a long time. I can’t say precisely how much ‘aso ebi’ should cost, but selling ‘aso ebi’ above N30,000 is unreasonable. Also, it shouldn’t be forced on anybody because people’s financial capabilities differ.

N80, 000 is too much – Adekunle Oreoluwa

Personally, I feel N80, 000 is too much for ‘aso ebi’. Though it’s good for your friends to look very good on your big day, I don’t think one has to break the bank to get a nice fabric. There are very beautiful and affordable fabrics in the market. The least amount I can spend on ‘aso ebi’ is N4,500 and it has to be ankara to be that cheap.

Being cheap doesn’t mean the quality would be bad but the important thing is for it to be nice.

I really do not feel ‘aso ebi’ is necessary, we all have plans and budget so if it’s not within my budget and it’s not convenient for me, I feel I should be allowed to wear what I can afford. At the end of the day, my presence at the event is all that matters; it’s not about buying ‘aso ebi’. As long as I am celebrating with them, I feel it’s a thing of joy. I have never been forced to buy ‘aso ebi’.

No amount is too much-Beatrice Okunato

‘Aso ebi’ is meant to distinguish the person celebrating an occasion and the family members from the others. However, these days, it is for everybody and people joyfully buy them to connect with the celebrant and show they appreciate and share in their joy.

I really do not think there is an amount that is too much to spend on ‘aso ebi’ as the cost and quality depend on the social class of the celebrant. One should know that any ‘aso ebi’ that costs more than your purse or social class is too much for you. I buy ‘aso ebi’ mostly when the event is within my family circle. It depends on my relationship with the celebrant and my purse. People should budget for things like ‘aso ebi’ based on convenience and the opportunity cost of other pressing needs within the family. You must not force your ‘aso ebi’ on people. By doing so, you just might be causing problems for friends and family members who are to rejoice with you.

N25, 000 and above is outrageous

Okoro Ijeoma Gift

People now use this tradition to enrich themselves. How can you organise a wedding, for instance, and want your ‘aso ebi’ to be sold for N25, 000 and above? It is outrageous.

A reasonable amount for ‘aso ebi’ should cost around N5, 000 to N10, 000 at most so that people won’t die paying debts because they bought ‘aso ebi’ for a friend’s wedding. In 2017, someone in my church was getting married and the ‘aso ebi’, which was meant to be used to sew ‘agbada’ (flowing gown), was N35, 000. A man in the church, in a bid to feel like part of the group, bought the ‘aso ebi’. He was a school bus driver and his salary was N40, 000.

He allowed himself to be put under pressure and he incurred debts. He has relocated to his village and I heard he owed a lot of people before he left. To me, ‘aso ebi’ should not be forced on people because it tends to put them under pressure.

Above N10,000 is too much – Chizoba Olugbue

From my little understanding of ‘aso ebi’, it is fabric that is sold to relations and friends attending an event so that they can look uniform there. However, these days, some people use it to generate money for the occasion; some people also go for expensive fabrics just to show off their economic class. It is supposed to be sold at moderate prices so that everyone involved would be able to afford it, especially if the event is a burial. For example, if it is a wedding or ordination, I can buy ‘aso ebi’ worth N10,000; but if it is above that, I may not buy it. So the least amount I can spend on ‘aso ebi’ is N1, 000 and the highest is N10,000. It is not wise to impose it on people because you don’t know their budget at that particular time. There was a time one of my friends brought ‘aso ebi’ for her grandmother’s 100th birthday to me. Fortunately, I had same ankara fabric so I told her that I would not be able to buy it but I would support her with whatever I had. She was angry; she left my house and refused to talk to me again, even at the event. I gave her an envelope containing N5, 000; my husband even bought one carton of expensive wine for her husband but she still refused to talk to me for a long time.

N50, 000 is too much- Olagbemide Damilola

The highest amount of money I can spend on a uniform outfit depends on my financial status at the time. However, in all honesty, I don’t think there is a particular amount that should be labeled as the least. The most important thing is to cut your coat according to your cloth.

In my opinion, it is not mandatory that one should use ‘aso ebi’ for a party and it is also not compulsory that one should buy. I think N50,000 is too much for ‘aso ebi’. I will totally decline to buy a fabric like that in my present state.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]