Should a woman give her salaries to her husband to attract divine blessings?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Some people are of the belief that women should give their salaries to their husbands to attract divine blessings, and this notion has also been voiced by some clerics. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians if they thought that such a gesture would attract divine blessings for married women. Here are their responses

Men could abuse it – Lawal Adebayo

I would start by saying ideally this shouldn’t be encouraged as it could easily be abused by men, especially if the husband is irresponsible. However, I have seen instances where such is being done and it has helped the family. This of course was due to a mutual agreement between the husband and the wife. Looking at it from a religious angle, a union between a man and a woman should be a perfect one, on the basis of two becoming one; hence there is nothing wrong if the family has a single ‘purse’ as this would strengthen the love between them. Personally I would not subscribe to this because I have my pride as a man; I would rather give mine to my wife than my wife giving me hers.

It sounds toxic to me – Adetunji Oyeniya

I don’t believe there’s any blessing attached to a wife giving her husband her salaries.

Sincerely, it sounds like ‘toxic masculinity’ to me. It sounds like one of those schemes men who have wives that earn significantly more than them will come up with in order to help their ego. No man should seek to collect the wages of his wife’s labour and vice verse.

It should be done willingly, not by force – Ocholi Okutepa

Submission is a basic biblical concept. The Bible teaches in 1 Peter 3:1 that: “In the same way, you wives be submissive to your own husbands…” Ephesians 5:22-23 commands this submission ‘in all things and as unto the lord’. The issue is, submission is not palatable but it is what the woman is commanded to do, according to the scripture. However, I will just quickly add that as we see in Ephesians 5 and 1 Peter 3, the man has a corresponding responsibility to unconditionally love his wife; this creates balance on both ends. However, when it comes to a woman submitting her salary to her husband, I do not agree with this. If a woman wants to submit her salary, she should do it willingly and not out of the fear of not being blessed. The man has the responsibility to provide and should not demand; the wife should do this. I would want my wife to willingly submit to me in every area. My job is to focus on loving her and making submission easier for her

I do not think it is true – Demola Ajimataranreje

I have not found it anywhere in the Bible that a woman must give her monthly income to her husband. If a wife chooses to give her salary to her husband it’s okay, but she should not be forced to do it. I do not agree with any person who says a wife must submit her salaries to her husband. The Bible says wives should submit themselves to their husbands not submit their money. Self and money are separate. I do believe there is a blessing when giving in love, whether it’s money, time, effort, etc. Men should work and stand tall on our own and leave a woman’s money for her. And God will bless us men as we hustle and provide for our homes

No blessing is attached to it – Obinna Onwuka

First, a woman is a helpmate not an apprentice. She has the right to her money and her salaries, and she is not obliged to give her salaries to her husband. Even if she does that, it is out of love for her husband, and it is not an inalienable right of the man. There is no form of blessing attached to it if a woman decides to give her salaries to her husband because this can make her impecunious and always waiting for her husband to give her money, even before she can get something as little as a sanitary towel. No man should be interested in his wife’s salaries because she works for her money, the same way the man works for his money.

It is barbaric – Tobi Alex-Oni

I do not think it’s reasonable to tender your income to your husband for blessings. As a matter of fact, I think it is barbaric and in this time and age, no responsible man will allow such. I bet no man will submit his salaries to a woman for blessings; it is improper.

I shouldn’t be robbed of my financial strength – Ijeoma Thomas-Odia

This is a big no for me. I can’t imagine working so hard only to submit my salary to my husband at the end of the month to manage for me to attract some divine blessings. There is no ‘special’ divine blessing attached to this practice. The truth is, the Bible says the man is the head of the home, but then it also says anyone who cannot fend for his family is worse than an infidel, so being the head means he should live up to that responsibility. I am a helpmate who should support with my efforts and not by giving up all of my earnings. In fact, there’s no justification for doing this and I can’t ever advocate it in anyway. I work hard to earn a living alongside bearing children; I shouldn’t be robbed of my financial strength because I want to remain in marriage. A man should never be interested in his wife’s salary, it portrays him as a weakling.

He should even give her additional allowances – Samson Funmilayo

The man is the head of the house so a woman should respect and obey her husband, yes, but not to the extent of giving her salary to him. Let us remember that the woman did not fall from heaven, she has parents or dependants too. If her salaries are given to her husband, how would she will take care of her parents and dependants? A responsible man does not look at his wife’s salary; rather, he would give her allowances to maintain herself apart from her own salary.

Only if the man is going through hard times – Mary Chinweze

A woman is not obligated to submit her salary to her husband except in special cases like if the head of the home, who is the man, is going through a hard time providing for the family. The holy book made us to know that a woman is a helpmate and as such should keep her salary to take care of herself and some other needs of the family. There is nowhere in the Bible that it is stipulated that a woman should hand over her earnings to her husband and there are no special blessings attached to it either. A responsible man will work hard to provide for his family and never consider collecting his wife’s salary. A man who relies on his spouse’s earnings is lazy and and has given over his authority to his wife.

A man doesn’t have a right over his wife’s salary – Abimbola Omotola

I believe the man is the head of the house but my salary is mine. I am a helpmate to him, so I shouldn’t submit my salary to him. The man is supposed to provide for the family; if he needs me to support, I will. A man shouldn’t be interested in his wife’s salary. We can help one another. A lot of times in the house I do things on my own without asking for money; a man doesn’t have any right over a woman’s salary. If I don’t tell him about my salary, it is my choice.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]