What is your definition of true happiness?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

The struggle to find true happiness is a daily one for many people, and being rich or poor doesn’t really matter. Therefore, in essence, wealth does not guarantee happiness. So what does? In a bid to understand this, Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians to define happiness and here are their responses:

Self love – Olakunle Matimoju Anthony

True happiness means different things to different people. Some may say it comes with true love; others may say it has to do with the possession of everything the world has to offer. However, in my view, true happiness is about being in love with oneself. For instance, when issues of life arise, a person who is at peace with themselves would easily come up with a solution because of their state of mind.

Some of the other things that can guarantee true happiness include a happy, contented and understanding wife; a good job and a good relationship with your creator.

Living for others – Samuel Folorunsho

True happiness is about being at peace with the creator after fulfilling divine purpose on earth. When I touch lives or someone smiles just because of me, I’m happy. True happiness is that inner satisfaction you have, knowing that someone out there enjoys a privilege as a result of my input and efforts in their lives. There are examples of people who did that; some of them were Mahatma Gandhi, Mother Theresa (Mary Teresa Bojaxhiu) and Helen Keller. They all lived such lives. True happiness is found in living for others and not for yourself alone.

Accepting everything about me – Ugwu Emmanuel

True happiness is accepting everything about oneself; body size, weight, complexion, family, society, country and everything around me. I have always learnt to be happy no matter the situation; I also try to share my happiness with people around me. These days, due to lack of happiness, many people have resorted to suicide. When we get disappointed by people we trust or believe in, it causes unhappiness. When we fail to meet a specific target or task, it also causes unhappiness. The things that will make me truly happy are the little things that I value such as family, having someone that truly loves me for who I am and getting a new job after a long search.

Placing value on what I have – Promise Okeke

True happiness is about placing value on whatever I have. Having N10m in my account cannot guarantee my happiness. Some people have that amount and still pray to God for more.

Seeing beyond the physical – Ayion Ahmed Allen

True happiness is not got because someone has everything. It is not got because people are around you, or because you see everything working out great for you.

True happiness is not got from having all your needs met or all your intentions carried out. True happiness is a feeling.

It is an immersive feeling that everything is good inside. It is not just about riches or wealth; it is a state of mind in which one has a fulfilling and satisfying feeling that his heart is truly at rest. Happiness is more or less a fantasy of the mind. It’s there, yet hidden. It’s a measure of your life, intertwined with a feeling that you are light, free, restful and not overwhelmed. It is about the amount of your troubles carried away by a moment’s feeling. True happiness is not just happiness. It’s not just peace, it’s not just joy. These things have a cause for them. They have things or persons that make them happen. True happiness is just there. It’s that peace you get when you’re in trouble. It’s that joy you have when you’re bereaved. It’s that happiness that comes even in the middle of a crisis.

True happiness may be a fantasy, but it’s a real fantasy. Only those who open their minds to see beyond what their eyes can see will have it.

Seeing my son grow – Ayankoya Omowunmi

True happiness comes from within; it is about being at peace with myself.

In my view, seeing my son grow into a respectful and successful man in a society that doesn’t appreciate single mums makes me happy. Money is also important, some people call it the root of all evil but I would say if it is used for the best things, it is the root of all good. With the right investments and finance management, I will achieve a lot.

True happiness is also about giving back to humanity: there are a lot of children who are not in school and can’t even boast of a skill. I will like to train children up to tertiary level or at least encourage them to have a vocation. This can be done with money.

Enjoying your company – Folawiyo Tamarapreye Grace

True happiness is enjoying your own company and living in peace and harmony with your body, mind and soul. To be truly happy, you don’t need other people or material things. Happiness is the consequence of personal effort and living a life of purpose. People get into relationships or marriages because they seek happiness in their partner and suddenly when they have an argument, all the happiness is gone.

Little things make me happy – Kikanwa Onukwu Ijeh

Happiness is cheap and free and one can actually create their own happiness.

Very little things are needed to make me happy. If I’m healthy, have a family that loves me, few good friends, food on my table, roof over my head and clothes on my body, then I’m a happy woman. I don’t need to have all the money in this world to be happy; wealth doesn’t give happiness.

Being contented – Eze Lilian

To me, true happiness is when you are contented and satisfied. Things that can make happy include money. Without money, life can be frustrating. Using myself as an example, I have an illness internally and have no money to treat it and I feel unhappy when I have an attack. With money, I will be comfortable because I can afford what makes life enjoyable. Secondly, being in good health; it makes me happy, especially when I go to the hospital and see other patients.

Pleasing God – Nimah Yusuff

True happiness is about pleasing God and being content with what He has given me. Constant gratitude to God creates happiness. Every break of day gives me joy. Whenever I am able to observe salat (religious duty for Muslims) at the stipulated time; it gives me joy. Seeing other people happy also makes me happy. I derive joy in other people’s success stories.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]