How to look younger than your age
Tunde Ajaja

For some who did not know her closely or ever heard her age, seeing 50 years written on the invitation card for her ‘golden jubilee birthday’ could have seemed like an error, or worst still, they thought, the printer must have made typographic error.

And truly, whether seeing her from the distance or at a close range, Mrs. Josephine (surname withheld) looked like someone in her mid 30s, not even with her enchanting smiles, fair, spotless skin, an all-black hair and charming panache.

Thus, beyond being the celebrator and invariably the centre of all eyes, people, both men and women, watched her in amazement and admired her elegance.

Such is not surprising, because for as long as one could remember, humans have always desired having good, radiant looks, not only because it gives them great delight, it also boosts their confidence, carriage, ego and sometimes it’s a thing of pride among friends.

Given the many comparative benefits, people therefore tend to do all kinds of things to make sure they don’t look older than their age, and that include using all kinds of products on their skin, believing that the higher the cost of such products, the more potent it would be to attain the desired result.

But, according to findings, things that cause premature skin ageing include stress, harsh weather, lifestyle, feeding habit, environment, smoking, lack of sleep, genetics, depression, etc., and these manifest on the skin as it makes it to become slack, rougher, develop lesions and then non-uniformity of colour (complexion).

According to a consultant dermatologist, Prof. Frances Ajose, there are basic things people need to pay attention to so as not to look older than their age. She noted however that some people tend to age faster than others because of genetics.

“Yes, it has to do with genetics, I mean the quality of the person’s DNA repair mechanism,” she added.

But, whether it is genetics or a product of environmental factors, there are some ways out and these include:

Avoid excessive exposure to the sun: According to Ajose, the most powerful ageing agent is the sun and excessive exposure to it invariably causes ageing. “If you check the difference between your forearm and your stomach, you would notice how much impact the sun has had on your skin, thus, people should learn to avoid excessive sunlight. That is major,” she added. Meanwhile, in a piece on WebMD, medical experts explained that exposure to the sun could make its ultraviolet light to damage certain fibres in the skin. These fibres are known as elastin, which is a highly elastic protein in connective tissue. It helps the skin to return to its original position after stretching, contracting or when it is pinched or poked. But when the elastin fibres have been damaged by excessive exposure to the sun, the skin would have lost its ability to be firm again, thus leading to stretching and sagging. Beyond that, such a person is more susceptible to bruises, and such takes longer to heal. It should also be noted that these effects on the skin may not be immediate, but later in life, more so that it can hardly be undone. As a way out, people are advised to limit their exposure to the sun, wear protective items like hat, long sleeve shirts and sunscreen.

Water: One other way not to look older than your age is to drink a lot of water. Ajose said this is one way to stay hydrated and ensure the skin has enough fluid to replace the quantity lost as sweat and the quantity needed to detoxify the body. She also noted that water is an important detoxifier but a lot of people don’t drink sufficient quantity, which is neither good for their health nor skin. She added, “If you don’t drink enough water, you won’t get rid of a lot of toxins in the body, and the accumulation of toxins would disturb metabolism, and disturbed metabolism would cause accelerated ageing. That is the importance of water. It is very important that people drink a lot of water, especially in a tropic region like Nigeria.”

She said people often rely on textbooks that prescribe taking minimum of 2.5 litres of water per day, but that such prescription does not apply to regions with tropic climate like Nigeria. She noted that writers of such books are from areas with temperate climate, which are areas characterised by mild temperatures. Thus, she recommends that people living in Nigeria should drink minimum of four litres of water a day, which is an equivalent of eight sachets of water per day.

Watch what goes into your mouth: Given the general conviction that the skin is partly a reflection of what goes into the body, people have been advised to mind what they eat, and especially make sure they eat balanced diet. Ajose was quick to add that people should avoid eating junk food.

She added, “Whether you are well or unwell depends on what enters your mouth. Unfortunately, people pay more attention to medication than to food. People would ask you what drug they could use to have fresh skin, instead of concentrating on what goes into their mouth, and that is why people need to learn about food literacy, which simply means understanding the impact of food choices on your health, environment and economy.” Repeatedly, people have been advised to eat lots of green vegetables, fruits like apple and watermelons, and tomatoes, which are rich in lycopene, an antioxidant that has anti-ageing properties. The lycopene also protects the skin from being damaged by the ultraviolet ray of the sun, and ultimately helps to make the skin look young and fresh. Also, according to the American Academy of Dermatology, diets containing lots of sugar or other refined carbohydrates could accelerate ageing.

Quit smoking and taking alcohol: As said earlier, what enters the mouth goes a long way to impart on the skin. According to AAD, smoking “greatly” speeds up how quickly skin ages, delays healing of wounds and it has been found to cause wrinkles and a dull, shallow complexion. Specifically, some of the chemicals in cigarettes have been found to damage collagen and elastin fibres that maintain, strengthen the skin and make it elastic. Beyond that, a dermatologist, Dr. Milton Moore, said smoking makes the blood vessels to become thinner, which reduces blood circulation and decreases the oxygen level in the blood, thus, affecting the skin. Meanwhile, the AAD also found that alcohol hydrates the skin and in turn damages it, which would ultimately make such persons to look older.

Stay positive: On the face value, this may seem not to have any connection with the skin, but according to Ajose, the mind also plays a very important role. “If you are always sad and always looking at the wrong, negative side of life, you cannot look healthy and you cannot look young. A gloomy face would always have wrinkles. So, the mind influences how you look.” And this explains why depression wears people out and it reflects on their skin. Also, AAD advised that people should avoid making repetitive facial expression, because it tends to contract the underlying muscles repeatedly, which could become permanent.

Mind your choice of cosmetics: In a bid to have a beautiful skin, people tend to use all kinds of cosmetic products on their skin, not minding whether it has harmful effects or not. Ajose, however, pointed out that people should be careful. She said, “A lot of people damage their skin because of their choice of cosmetics. Some chemicals and petrochemicals in the substances people use could impair the quality of the skin and force the skin to age. The skin has an enormous capacity to repair itself but when you put on the skin things that would impair its ability to repair itself, you are damaging the skin. And one of the commonest agents people use to damage their skin is wrong type of soap.” The AAD adds that any skin care product that burns or stings the skin could ultimately make it look older.

The body equally notes that doing moderate exercise improves blood circulation and boosts the immune system, both of which give the skin a gentle appearance. Also, while bathing, people are advised to cleanse their skin gently and avoid scrubbing it, to avoid irritation. Washing the face after sweating as well as having adequate sleep are other approaches that have been found to be helpful.

Beyond these, regular sex has been found to also make the skin look younger because of some hormones released during orgasm or ejaculation. Notably, sex reduces stress, which helps the skin as well.

Meanwhile, there is some good news for those who are not impressed with their skin. Given that the skin has the ability to repair itself, people who already have signs of premature skin ageing or people who have observed that rapid ageing runs in their family should discontinue any inimical habit or lifestyle, as identified above.

“By protecting your skin from the sun, you give it a chance to repair some of the damage, and smokers who stop often notice that their skin looks healthier,” AAD added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]