The best sex position for women
For most couples, cowgirl sex is still the best position there is when it comes to bedroom matter!

And experts say it doesn’t matter if you’re doing it regular, or if you are going for reverse, as either way feels amazing.

It allows a female complete control, and she can control the exact pace she wants to go at.

In addition, it is one of the easiest and quickest ways to orgasm. And not only orgasm once, but it allows for repeat pleasure.

So, why did the jury give it to cowgirl? These reasons…

Makes orgasm attainable: The great thing about cowgirl is that it allows for great clitoral simulation, which then leads to achieving orgasm easily and quickly. Plus, it is perfect for a quickie.

The view: It is one of the few sexual positions that actually allows the female to look down at the male, not vice versa. You can raise yourself up, wrap your legs around him and admire his reaction below you.

It doesn’t hurt: You actually get to control the exact angle and level of penetration, so there is no need to stop halfway through because of any pain. Instead, you get to set the threshold.

So much confidence: It allows you to climb on top, really show off your skills and grind as much as you like. And that feeling of being in charge definitely gives a big confidence boost.

Take control: Instead of laying back and letting someone do something to you, you’re on top and can take control of the moment. Which is quite a powerful thrill.

Go at your own pace: You can go slow, or you can go fast. There are no rules or set moves, you can rock yourself however you see fit.

Can use sex toys: Regular cowgirl means that you’re both facing one another, which makes it so easy to add a toy like a bullet to tease the clitoris. It will only help to make your orgasms more intense.

Good workout: None of this passive nonsense with this move. You will have to put in the work, and you will totally burn a lot of calories doing it.

No flexibility required: Some moves like doggy style require flexibility, getting that perfect arch and friction burns on knees.But this move is comfortable, requires no flexibility and is still, well, sexy.

Can go reverse: If you want to mix it up, you can go for reverse cowgirl. You can squat or balance on your knees for a different level of penetration, and give your partner a sexy view to take in.

Do it anywhere: Anywhere you can sit on your partners lap is fair game for cowgirl.

A chair, the bed, the car, even in the cinema if you’re brave enough.

Can be romantic: There is something really romantic about this position, because it allows for face to face contact, holding one another close and a lot of kissing. But if romance isn’t your thing you can pick up the speed and make this position as rough and quick as you like. The best thing is, you’re in control; so it’s totally up to you.