[PHOTO] Four-inch sex toy disappears into 20-year-old
A 20-year-old lady has spoken out about how a night of wild passion led to the disappearance of a four-inch, sharp-edged, bejewelled sex toy into her.

The young lady narrates that she was enjoying a sex session with a male partner when the four-inch sex toy ended up lost inside her.

Her lover accidentally pushed the toy too far up her bottom and the stainless steel ‘plug’ promptly disappeared.

After attempts to manually retrieve it failed, she says, her one-night stand suggested leaving it to ‘naturally work its way out’ and then left her, claiming he had work early the following morning.

A concerned friend rushed her to the hospital, where doctors warned her that there was a risk of it perforating her bowel due to its sharp, jewel-encrusted edge and that she faced an hour-long surgery.

An x-ray shows just how dangerously high in the lady’s bowel the sex toy ventured.

Emily Georgia, from East Preston, West Sussex, said: “We were having a naughty night-in last March and decided to use the toy. I had never used one before.

“I think he got too excited and managed to push the end of it in too. It was a goner.

“I began to panic and told him I needed to go to hospital. He said it should come out naturally on the toilet and then he said, ‘I’m really sorry; I have work early in the morning;’ and he shot off.

“My housemate didn’t believe me at first, but when I began to get upset, she realised I wasn’t joking.”

Emily was assessed and then went for an x-ray, which showed just high up the sex aid had gone.

Emily said: “I waited for three hours – by this point the pain started to kick in.

“It was already in my bowel, bashing me about and because it’s made of stainless steel, it felt really heavy and uncomfortable.

“I assumed they could get it out manually, but it was only when I saw the x-ray did I realise they couldn’t and how dangerous it was.

“I’m petrified of needles, so when they lay me down and a nurse put a line in, I realised they needed to operate. I was terrified.”

As she was being wheeled to theatre the following day, doctors told Emily if they couldn’t extract it rectally, they might have to go through the bowel and take some out, which could mean at least six months with a colostomy bag.

The toy also had a fake sharp-edged gem on its base, which doctors warned could have perforated her bowel.

Emily said: “Obviously, when they said about the colostomy bag, I was devastated. I’m only 20.

“When they spoke about the gem and that it could perforate my bowel I was devastated that a night of fun could have killed me.”

At 2pm on March 29th, Emily underwent an hour-long operation, which involved placing a camera inside her rectum before manually extracting the butt plug.

She was discharged the following day and tentatively made her way home.

Emily now wants to raise awareness and urge anyone in a similar predicament to seek medical attention.