Ten unbeatable encounters for starters
Funmi Akingbade

Many couples especially the ‘about to wed spouses’ most times do ask me for the best sex ever. They want to know the best encounter that will be registered in their memories for life and I say the best sexual experience is the one both spouses enjoy the most. However, as my way of doing things, I went researching and from research, I gathered that the best sexual ‘gbam’ tends to begin with slow and steady movements.

One … Slow soft kiss is the rule of the game. As the kiss gets deeper, bodies move closer, minds become more focused and hands start to roam. Even if you have had sex with your spouse hundreds of times, you can still feel the incredible thrill slowly progressing to a climax. The benefits are not just that you are bound to feel a wonderful sensation for a little longer than you would during a quickie; you are also more likely to feel enhanced sensual thrills. For couples taking their time, you both have a chance to pay attention to how you both respond to different touches, kisses, positions, thrust and pleasures.

Two … You both have more opportunities to try new things, make small adjustment, and build towards a state of heightened arousal that rocks both of you from head to toe. In addition, during slow sex, you are more likely to look each other in the eyes, to communicate what you want, and to tap into more profound emotions. A lengthy sexual encounter is like a well-prepared intercontinental, African, Chinese or village/local meal. It is not just about satisfying your hunger; it is about enjoying every single, delicious mouthful.

Three … Husband, please don’t squeeze your wife’s breast like tissue paper or handkerchief but feel her nipples become erect one at a time, as your fingertips circle each one over her blouse or night dress with the bra off. A little kiss on her panties can provide a provocative preview of things to come later on. Wife, the aroma of a hygienic, sparkling, fresh, dirt-free, vagina fluid is one of the erotic sexual tip offs for many husbands. So, keep your vagina inviting, captivating, appealing, tempting and enticing always. Husbands should treat their wives to the most classic romantic move, you can just sweep them off their feet and carry them to bed; 100 per cent of wives are dying for this move. The last time many husbands swept their wives off their feet was on the wedding day when they were posing for the wedding pictures. You all will agree with me that another sweeping off the feet is long overdue. Wife, a romantic, well-perfumed light wear can inspire a slower-paced response from a man than something tight, rough, unattractive, old and smelly.

Four … It is characteristic for African couples to rush through sex, but when a spouse is in the mood to savour sex, start with soft kisses and caresses, letting your lips and hands glide at first, and then slowly add more pressure. These first small moves set a precedent for your spouse to follow, they let him or her know that you are in the mood to let every sensation linger.

Five … Starting in first gear does not mean you have to kick off the night with a mouth-to-mouth kiss with un-brushed mouth. Many times, a typical wife’s ‘sex engine’ has ‘knocked’ few months into the marriage, the car parked on a hilly side with the handbreak pulled to neutral just because the husband all the time rushes through sex. Husband, I want you to know that it is not where you direct your attention to first that sets the mood for leisurely loving, but it is how.

Six … You can start caressing below the waist and still inspire a long, romantic sex with soft kisses, light touches and gentle licks. In addition, the more time spent caressing each other over your clothes, the more you will both anticipate the fabulous sensation of skin against skin. A ‘rush in rush out’ sex is another major stress prone factor. Please slow down and calm down! Slow and steady sex is a healthy, curative, therapeutic and romantic love spa that helps increase the body’s general immune system to combat germs and virus that kills.

Seven … Savour every spot, peel off and do not irritably tear off your wife’s clothing piece by piece. Notice each freckle and curve as it is uncovered, then kiss or stroke it. When either of the spouses is still partially dressed and the other is naked, the result can be extremely racy. Keep all or a few pieces of clothing on after stripping your spouse to let them know that, for the moment, their bare erogenous zones are the sole focus of your attention and if you need to pass any constructive positive comment for a healthier better shape, be very careful and cautious about your utterances. The comments and reactions of our spouses go a long way to enhance and boost or inhibit, hinder, hamper and hold back our sexual performances.

Eight … Pay attention to those rarely-appreciated areas like a man’s nipples. Nonetheless, the surprise of feeling fingertips, lips or tongue in these sensitive areas will shoot tiny shivers of pleasure up your husband’s spine, as you would be igniting not easily tamed fire unknowingly. Please be sure to use more pressure in typically delicate places to keep the touch.

Nine … One thing that is crystal clear is that there will be an intense connection. In a long-term marriage relationship, it is very easy to fall into an eye-closed-routine-sex in which first thing happens and then couples stop talking, stop looking into each other’s eyes as they both just engage in a physical sex. At this point, sex is as intimate as a wrestling match and that can be passionless, unsatisfying or boring because you feel that you are just going through the motions. You can prevent this from happening by taking minutes to be still, looking your spouse in the eyes, kissing those eyes carefully, stroking their hair, complimenting them and reaffirming your love for each other. Even when your wife is bare headed, take control of the action while still being gentle by cradling her head in your hands, caress the head and tell her you knew she lost her hair while in your house and you are ready to help her regain it back. When you begin to touch each other, again things will feel different, more intense and fulfilling.

Ten … Wife, while in missionary position and thrusting in and out is going on, to make things more intense, wrap your arms and legs around your husband’s body and pull him closer to you for deep penetration. Don’t just lie down there; match the rhythm of each thrust so that your bodies move together. Holding hands during sex is surprisingly intimate and loving. Then grasping your spouse’s hands is also a romantic way for you to provide added support and balance when he or she is moving up and down on top of you. Alternate this position to wife on top, and if husband gets the moves right, it is guaranteed to take your wife’s breath away. Encourage her to straddle you on the edge of the bed and give her neck and breasts plenty of loving attention as she moves on top of you. You can also lift her by placing your hands under her thighs, slowly turn her around and lay her back on the bed. If you are good at multitasking, kiss her continually and as you do this, subtlely push your longest finger into the tip of the vagina and manually do a thrusting in and out with it while you place the thumb on her clitoris and rub it vertically. I tell you, you can’t beat this undercover cruising; do you want to try this out? Please do and I can’t wait to hear from you.

Should I take my husband’s advice over the choice of a surrogate

It’s been close to 15 years that we have been married and no pregnancy or a sign of one. We are happy with each other and so far, I have not had any reason to doubt my husband’s solidarity because the reason for my lack of being pregnant is traceable to him. But recently, we decided to have a baby by a surrogate dad and my husband is insisting against my wish we use his ex-girlfriend’s boyfriend as the surrogate dad, I am not very comfortable with this, although he said I could investigate, which I am still at it but I suspect a foul play here. His point of insistence is on the fact that the supposedly surrogate dad is a genius, what do you think?

Really confused wife

Hmm, this is a dicy situation. I think you both have to sit down and air your views and share your worries. He may mean well, but I can’t possibly read his mind. However, I think for the sake of other readers and better enlightenment on these issues, I would love to explain what surrogating is and who a surrogate dad or mum is.

A surrogate mother or father is a stand-in or a substitute or a replacement mother or a father for a married couple due to the fact that one or the other married partner is unable to naturally give birth to a child and they are not considering an adoption.

There are two kinds: –

One … Traditional surrogate: It’s a woman who gets artificially inseminated with the father’s sperm. She then carries the baby and delivers it for you and your partner to raise.

A traditional surrogate is the baby’s biological mother. That’s because it was her egg that was fertilized by the father’s sperm. Donor sperm can also be used.

Two … Gestational surrogates: A technique called “in vitro fertilization” (IVF) now makes it possible to gather eggs from the mother, fertilize them with sperm from the father, and place the embryo into the uterus of a gestational surrogate.

The surrogate then carries the baby until birth. She doesn’t have any genetic ties to the child because it wasn’t her egg that was used.

A gestational surrogate is called the “birth mother.” The biological mother, though, is still the woman whose egg was fertilized. Gestational surrogacy is less complex legally. That’s because both intended parents have genetic ties to the baby. As a result, gestational surrogacy has become more common than a traditional surrogate. About 750 babies are born each year using gestational surrogacy.

If you’re a woman, you may consider a surrogate for several reasons:- Medical problems with your uterus, you had a hysterectomy that led to the removal of your uterus, conditions that make pregnancy impossible or risky for you, such as severe heart disease. You may want to think about surrogacy if you tried but couldn’t get pregnant with a variety of assisted-reproduction techniques, such as IVF.

Surrogates have also made parenthood an option for people who might not be able to adopt a child, perhaps because of their age or marital status.

How to choose a surrogate is very important, although right now there aren’t any regulations about who can be a surrogate mother. But experts agree on a few points about how to select one.

You should choose a surrogate who is at least 21 years old, has already given birth to at least one healthy baby so she understands firsthand the medical risks of pregnancy and childbirth and the emotional issues of bonding with a newborn, has passed a psychological screening by a mental health professional to uncover any issues with giving up the baby after birth, signs a contract about her role and responsibilities in the pregnancy, such as prenatal care and agreeing to give you the baby after birth.

Researchers say a surrogate should get a medical exam to check that she’s likely to have a healthy, full-term pregnancy. The researchers suggest she gets tests that check for infectious diseases such as syphilis, gonorrhea, chlamydia, HIV, cytomegalovirus, and hepatitis B and C. Surrogates should get tests to make sure they have immunity to measles, rubella (German measles), and chickenpox. Also, you may want to ask that she gets a medical procedure to visually “map” the uterus, which can help the doctor check her potential to carry a pregnancy. A surrogate mother should have her own doctor during pregnancy rather than use yours.

Can banana make me get pregnant fast?

My husband and I have been really anticipating getting babies for three years of marriage now and I hear and read a lot about bananas and cough syrups, can they help get me pregnant on time? My second question is the issue of age; my husband is 60 while I am 30, is it okay for us to still hope for babies?

Mrs Oru Mimi

Maybe you heard that bananas boost fertility or yams make you more likely to have twins. But there isn’t enough proof to show that any particular food helps your husband’s sperm meet your egg faster. Instead, aim to eat more fruits and veggies, whole grains, healthy fats and different kinds of protein to keep your body healthy. A study suggests eating iron-rich plants (like spinach and beans) may make you less likely to be infertile. Secondly some people have claimed that cough syrup is proven to help people to conceive. Well you might have heard these rumours. Some websites claim that an ingredient called guaifenesin in these medicines makes it easier for sperm to reach an egg. But there’s no scientific evidence to back up that idea.

Thirdly, definitely age affects fertility and it’s true that some men can become new fathers in their 60s or later. But research shows their biological clocks tick, too. Women become less fertile after age 35. The reason: As they get older, they have fewer eggs, and the eggs become less healthy. Fertility changes in men don’t happen as suddenly, but age can still impact a man’s ability to have sex and the health of his sperm. Women are most fertile in their 20s. More women are having babies later in life, compared with past decades, but the odds do drop after age 30. A pregnancy could still happen right up until you go into menopause, but with age, you might be more likely to need fertility treatment.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]