Would you allow your spouse’s ex take delivery of your baby?
Angel George and Sandra Ogunfiditi

No matter how friendly two ex lovers remain after a break-up, there is a general perception that they parted ways because all was not well between them and may still have scores to settle at the slight opportunity. If their spouses’ ex was a doctor, Saturday Punch asked Nigerians whether they would allow such ex to handle the delivery of their baby.

He can swap my child – Ejioye Funsho

There is no way I would allow my wife’s ex lover deliver our child. Humans are evil minded because my wife would have broken his heart and maybe he is not happy in his own marriage. He might see this as an opportunity to avenge whatever she might have done to him in the past. The chance of him harming her and my child is 95:5 per cent. I would be there with her in the labour room or better still, we are going to another hospital if they tell me that there is no other doctor on duty. Life nowadays is scary; he can kill them both and blame it on some sort of complications or swap my child.

I would be scared – Olopade Helen

I would be scared because she might harm me and my baby. Although, it also depends on how they ended their love affair. If she was my doctor before the delivery date and I had no idea she was once my husband’s lover, I would have trusted her too much and would not think she can hurt me. But if it’s on the day of my delivery that I found out, I might not allow her touch me and I would request for another doctor or we will go to another hospital.

I have to consider the pain she is going through – Ogundana Oladipo

At first, there is life involved. If he is the only most qualified doctor around at that time, then he can go ahead, because if eventually my wife loses the baby because I don’t want her ex to help her in labour room, then I am stupid. Another thing I have to consider is the pain my wife is going through at that moment. I know that immediately after she is delivered of the baby, he cannot do any harm to her nor see her nakedness again. It also depends on the way they both quit the relationship they once had. If they quit the relationship on smooth and peaceful ground, I will allow him to do the delivery of my wife, but if the reverse is the case, we are going to another hospital immediately.

She may try to get my husband again – Akomolafe Oluwabukunmi

It depends on if I am in serious pain and cannot wait for my husband to take me to another hospital or request for another doctor. And if at that moment, no other doctor and no nearby hospital, then I would allow my husband’s ex take my delivery. In the first place, if I knew she works in the hospital as a doctor, I would not even think of registering there for my anti-natal care. There’s no way my husband would not get close to the doctor in charge of his wife’s anti natal and post natal care, even during childbirth and who knows, the lady might not have really gotten over him or my husband over her, anything can happen. And you know I just gave birth and wouldn’t be getting too close to my husband that time sexually; she may decide to try her luck again.

He won’t put his profession at risk

Oluyemi Ogunseyin

I would allow my spouse’s ex to deliver her of my child as long as it’s a good hospital. I believe just like myself that everyone would place an utmost importance on professionalism than emotions. We are talking about life at stake. I do not feel someone would want to jeopardise his career because of a relationship which went sour. I do not want to believe that he would harm my wife or baby because if he ever did really love her when they were seeing, he wouldn’t do anything to take her life or my child’s life.

My life would be at risk

Hosanna Enigbonjaiye

That is never going to happen because there is a probability that after my baby’s delivery, she can inject him or her to death or even myself and would send nurses to tell my husband that the baby was a stillbirth, whereas she killed him or her. If she happens to be the only doctor in that hospital, we are going to another one. Yes, I know being in labour is painful but I would be at risk if I allow my husband’s ex touch me. She can even damage my womb. If there is no other nearby hospital, my husband would have to deliver me of the baby.

It all depends on my wife – Ayuba Adejuwon

Yes, I would allow my wife’s ex deliver our baby because it’s his job as a doctor and at that moment, there was no other choice. She can’t have a baby without the help of a doctor and I want to believe he is professional enough. But if my wife is not comfortable with the idea, we will demand for another doctor or go to another hospital.

At that moment, I don’t care if she is my husband’s ex – Dorcas Falana

In all honesty at that moment, that she had been my husband’s ex lover would not even sink into my brain. The pain I would be in then would not make me know the difference between his ex and my ex and all I would be concerned about would be delivering my baby in good condition. It’s not about her at that moment at all; we are talking about life and death. Yes, she can harm me and my child but my spirit would definitely hunt her. If my child decides to come to life 2am and that is the closest hospital to us, I would allow her deliver my baby even if I do not know if her intentions would be good or evil. Labour pain isn’t like a normal headache pain; the pain can make you do anything.

It depends on how they parted – Brendan Aiwuyo

Well, I can allow my spouse’s ex deliver our child because I believe he would not allow emotions get involved with his job, meaning that he will keep it professional. But it also depends on how they parted ways in the first place and breaking up doesn’t make them enemies. If they broke up in a messy way, I would not allow him touch my wife. But, at that moment that she is in labour and I do not have a choice, I would not even think he is her ex or not because I am not a doctor. All I would want is for her and the child to be safe.

My husband would go into the theatre with me – Esther Ademoyegun

She cannot do anything to me because immediately I realise that she is my husband’s ex lover, I would request that my husband come into the labour room together with me. He has the right to be there because he is my husband and the father of the baby. But if she does not allow him into the theatre, we will go to another hospital because obviously, she has something evil to carry out. Without my husband being in the theatre with me, I would not allow her touch me. Although if she injects me or the baby, he might not know the name of the injection but at least if anything goes wrong, he would be able to testify that he saw her inject me and my child.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]