Five things STDs do to you
Tunde Ajaja

Sexual intercourse has a way of putting people in an ecstatic mood, whilst boosting their immune system, lowering blood pressure, reducing stress, being a good form of exercise and improving sleep, among other benefits.

But in spite of these, according to findings, three major fears seem to accompany sexual intercourse, especially when done outside marriage.

They are, fear of contracting HIV/AIDS, fear of unwanted pregnancy and fear of getting sexually transmitted infections, which, arguably, seems to be the most prevalent.

While all of these could be prevented by the use of some contraceptives, like condom, one could presume that most people know the end result of all but the latter; STIs. It is a given that unprotected sex could lead to pregnancy and also HIV which still remains incurable.

But for STIs, findings have shown that not many people know the details of what they do to the body; they don’t know what the causes and symptoms really are. Apart from the fact that having STIs dampens the ego and social confidence of such persons, it has serious health implications that could even lead to death if left unattended to.

There are many symptoms of STIs and according to Dr. Traci Johnson, a United States-born obstetrician and gynaecologist, anyone with any or some of these symptoms should cease from having sex and see a doctor immediately, as STI is highly contagious, through sexual intercourse.

In her piece on WebMD, a website that provides valuable health information, tools and support to people, Johnson identified the symptoms of STIs to include painful sex, vaginal bleeding other than during monthly period, genital and/or anal itching and irritation; discharge or leaking of blood-streaked, white, yellow, green or gray liquid from the penis, urethra, vagina or anus.

Other symptoms include pain during urination; pain in the groin or lower belly area; pain or swelling of the testicles; swelling or redness of the vagina; weight loss; loose stools; night sweats; rash, blisters, sores, lumps, bumps or warts on or around the genitals, anus or mouth. And according to her, flu-like symptoms like aches, fevers, pains and feelings of coldness accompanied by shivering could also be symptoms of STIs.

These highlight the bad sides of the likely danger in having an unprotected romp in the sack and they underscore how much impact they could have on the carrier’s well being. These sex-induced infections include gonorrhoea, syphilis, etc.

According to a seasoned consultant endocrinologist, Dr. Michael Olamoyegun, STI could manifest in both men and women who contract it and the effects could be immediate or on a long term, especially if not well treated.

More importantly, however, these diseases have the following effects on the body:

Could cause permanent infertility – Even though STIs are said to manifest early in males than in females, experts have warned that these infections could over time block the fallopian tube and prevent the woman from ever conceiving. According to Olamoyegun, the infection could grow (ascend) into the fallopian tube and when it gets there, it could cause fibrosis, which would narrow or completely block the fallopian tube, hence there would be no fertilisation. Ordinarily, for fertilisation to take place, the ovary would release an egg and the sperm deposited into the vagina would ascend, so the egg and the sperm could meet in the fallopian tube, which is where fertilisation takes place. But once there is fibrosis, also known as tuber blockage, both the egg and the sperm would not be able to meet and so there would not be fertilisation.

Olamoyegun added, “It is one of the commonest causes of infertility in females, and it is usually as a result of previous STI that was not well treated. So, if the fallopian tube is blocked, there cannot be fertilisation.” He pointed out that even if surgery is carried out to correct the blockage, the outcome of the surgery is often very poor.

He said, “Even if you open up the blocked tube, you can’t do anything to the lining of the tube that is needed for the sperm to meet the egg. So, the outcome is usually poor, and so that can cause permanent infertility, especially if the two tubes are affected. But if it is only one, the other one can release egg. If somebody has repeated STI that is not well treated, it would lead to infertility and it could be permanent. The solution for such people is In Vitro Fertilisation.”

Could affect the kidney – Apart from causing permanent infertility in the woman, sexually transmitted infections could also affect the kidney. According to Olamoyegun, this is more likely if the infection finds its way to the urethra, which is the tube that brings urine from the kidney to the bladder. He added, “In females, the urethra, which is the tube that takes urine from the bladder to the external part of the body, is very close to the vagina, so due to the proximity, if the infection affects the urethra, it could go to the bladder and cause cystitis, which is the infection of the bladder. From the bladder, it can ascend through the urethra to the kidney to cause pyelonephritis, which is the infection of the kidney. Therefore, you can imagine that if the kidney is affected and is not well treated, it can lead to permanent damage, then kidney failure.

Could cause heart failure – It would appear there is so much havoc that unprotected sex could cause for both men and women. Olamoyegun said further that if syphilis, in particular, is not well treated, the long term effect is that it could affect the heart, even if it takes 10 years after. This applies to men and women. He added that there are some forms of syphilis that could affect the joint and cause arthritis. Given the advent of antibiotics, syphilis is not as common as before, but it is not totally wiped out and so if left untreated, it could cause heart failure.

Could spell doom for a man – In men, experts say STIs could narrow the path through which urine comes out of the penis, thus leading to severe pain anytime the person wants to urinate. That is on one hand. On the other hand, it is the same path through which sperm comes out of the body. Thus, once this path is narrowed, sperm would find it difficult to come out of the penis. But that is nothing compared to the pain the person experiences anytime he wants to urinate. This phenomenon is called urethral stricture.

Olamoyegun explained, “If gonorrhoea is not well treated, it could lead to fibrosis. In this case, the path through which urine comes out is now narrowed, such that by the time the person wants to urinate, it won’t want to come out. Sometimes, it can cause acute urinary retention, because the duct is now narrow. You can imagine the pain when someone finds it difficult to urinate.

“The urine would settle in the bladder and it would get descended. If that continues for a long time, the pressure in the bladder can now be transmitted to the kidney through the urethra, which connects the kidney to the bladder. There is now what we call back pressure to the kidney. That can damage the kidney and cause pyelonephritis. Another name for urethral stricture is bladder outlet obstruction. The back pressure to the kidney can damage the kidney and when that happens, that is kidney failure. That is one side effect of STIs.”

Discomfort: As cited in the symptoms, STIs could cause severe discomfort for the carriers, both males and females. It could make sex painful for such persons, it could cause serious itching and irritation of the genitals and anus. It could as well lead to discharges from the genitals, all of which bring about discomfort and could lead to frustration. When combined with the likely pain in the groin and swelling of the testicles and vagina, among other things, the experience is understandably unpleasant; all for a romp in the sack.

Given the complications surrounding STIs, it is important to know what causes them. According to experts, there are bacterial and viral causes. For example, HIV is an STI and it is caused by a virus, while gonorrhea and syphilis are caused by bacteria.

STIs manifest early in males than in females. Thus, if a man has any of them, he could know through penile discharge and pain during urination, but if a woman has it, she might not easily notice until the damage is already done.

And so Johnson had this to add, “If one of your current or former sex partners tells you he or she has or had an STI, see a doctor. Even if you don’t have STI symptoms, you may have the disease.”

How then can one avoid contracting STIs? Olamoyegun said this could be avoided through three ways. He said, “The best way to avoid it is abstinence, for those who are not married, but for those who are married, they should stick to a partner. However, those who can’t stick to a partner should use condom, a contraceptive. If after all these, somebody has it, it has to be treated quickly and adequately to prevent future complications.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]