Six ways husbands can discover what sex is to a woman
Funmi Akingbade; [email protected], 08096762941, 08029593116

Many women find sex to be the deepest form of love and connection. They are very sexually oriented. But the ways that women experience and express their sexuality are often very different from the male stand points.

Here are six of the most common ways that women may differ from men.

One … Sex begins in the mind. Many husbands are often disappointed that their wives do not crave for sex in their bodies as much as they do. But a woman’s body is very different hormonally. As much as the testosterone does cause physiological desire in both genders, but ironically it is to a differing degree. Proportionately, male hormonal drive is a loud scream and the female hormonal drive is an occasional whisper. For her, it’s the fantasising, remembering and imagining hot sex that revs her engine. So, during the times when you both fell in love, the time when she is constantly thinking about being together with you her husband or lover, it is very certain that her sexual appetite would be very high and her sexual arousal will not only be very easy, but very easily surprising to the husband.

Two … However beautiful or well-structured a lady’s body build may be, if she does not feel being desired, she is not really for that remarkable sex. Sex is about being desired. A sex researcher says being desired is the orgasm for a woman. Even for a single lady while seeing an attractive man might cause a small spike of excitement in her, it’s the thought of his reaction to her that makes her feel or appear sexually responsive, even if she has taken a lot of effort to seduce the man. Such thought that goes on and off in her mind is, ‘I wonder if he thinks I’m hot?” Just as men often expect abundant sex after marriage, women have expectations of lots of continuous romance that assures her of her sexual desirability. Husbands, don’t call your wife demoralising names in the day time and expect her to be a super hero at night during bedtime. She will behave expertly the way you called her during the day time.

Three … Sex is a mixed bag. Most women do love sex, but desire can easily be derailed by tiredness, resentment and physiological problems of pain and menopause. Women often come to bed willing to have a good experience but not yet really wanting and craving sex until aroused. And sometimes getting to the peak of arousal can be bumpy climb (for most women it may take up to 45 minutes). Experiencing regular orgasms is not as easy for women as it is for men, but it is necessary for continued desire. So, while men love variety, women may prefer a tried and true position or routine because there is more guarantee for her pleasure which allows her to relax in the moment.

Four … Sex is circumstantial. Feeling sexual desire is, at its core, the rawest form of vulnerability – to want her lover to touch her and bring her pleasure is to experience need. Often, marital/ relationship ups and downs cause women to withdraw desire and protect their heart in a way that their sexual involvement with their husband becomes more of ‘let me satisfy him for the sake of my marriage’ and not because they want to enjoy the sexual relationship anymore. So, they do not care about their own personal sexual feelings any longer, suppressing the force of their biological drive.

However, a woman’s need to feel safe emotionally before the sexual moment cannot be overstated. Romance and seduction are ways that both spouses can co-create a context for sex that helps her separate from the cares of her day and her mental checklist of things to do and brings her to a place of vulnerability.

Five … Sex is an aspect of love. Sex, talking, hanging out, working together, managing a home and family as a team, celebrating holidays, giving and receiving gifts and affection may all comprise love for a woman – sex is part of the whole, not the defining factor. Making love may flow from the warmth she feels in the relationship, but it’s not necessarily the source of the heat.

Six … Sex is a way she gives love. I am absolutely not implying that women are obliged to give sex when they don’t want to, but sometimes, she may recognise her husband’s need for sex and despite her own lack of inclination, she may want to meet his need. If there is relational warmth and good will, this offering can be a real gift of love. And because she often feels desired after arousal, she may find herself glad that she started making love. Many women find deep satisfaction in sexual intercourse even if it comes without orgasm. While most of the time they want to feel like they are on the same page with their husbands before having sex, sometimes it’s having sex that gets them on that same page.

Husband and wife both need to feel deeply attached to their spouses for happiness. But often the starting place is different. Emotional intimacy combined with sexual intimacy is the combination that creates a passionate marriage relationship.

Questions!!! Answers!!!

When and how should I check my blood pressure?

I am hypertensive and I have been for quite a number of years and I really do enjoy sex. I have been told that if I manage my blood pressure very well, I can still enjoy my sex life till old age. My challenge is how to get a very good way of checking my blood pressure. Please, can you help?

Mr. Orogun David-co

First and foremost, kindly follow your doctor’s instructions for when and how often to check your blood pressure.

Keep in mind that certain factors can cause blood pressure to temporarily rise. Blood pressure normally rises as a result of:

Stress

Smoking

Cold temperatures

Exercise

Caffeine

Certain drugs

Avoid any of these factors when taking your blood pressure. Also try measuring blood pressure at about the same time each day.

How do you take blood pressure?

Before taking your blood pressure:

Find a quiet place. (You will need to listen to your heartbeat.)

Roll up the sleeve on your left arm or remove any tight-sleeved clothing, if needed. (It’s best to take blood pressure from the left arm, if possible.)

Rest in a chair next to a table for five to 10 minutes. (Your left arm should rest comfortably at heart level.)

Sit up straight with your back against the chair, legs uncrossed.

Rest your forearm on the table with the palm of your hand facing up.

Taking Your Blood Pressure

If you purchase a manual or digital blood pressure monitor, follow the instruction booklet carefully. The following steps provide an overview of how to take your blood pressure using either a manual or digital blood pressure monitor.

Locate your pulse

Locate your pulse by lightly pressing your index and middle fingers slightly to the inside centre of the bend of the elbow. Here you can feel the pulse of the brachial artery. If you cannot locate a pulse, place the head of the stethoscope (on a manual monitor) or the arm cuff (on a digital monitor) in the same general area.

Secure the cuff Thread the cuff end through the metal loop and slide the cuff onto your arm, making sure that the stethoscope head is over the artery. (When using a manual monitor, the cuff may be marked with an arrow to show the location of the stethoscope head.) The lower edge of the cuff should be about 1 inch above the bend of your elbow. Use the Velcro wrap to make the cuff snug, but not too tight. Place the stethoscope in your ears. Tilt the earpiece slightly forward to get the best sound. Inflate and deflate the cuff

If you are using a manual monitor:

Hold the pressure gauge in your left hand and the bulb in your right. Close the airflow valve on the bulb by turning the screw clockwise. Inflate the cuff by squeezing the bulb with your right hand. You may hear your pulse in the stethoscope. Watch the gauge. Keep inflating the cuff until the gauge reads about 30 points (mm Hg) above your expected systolic pressure. At this point, you should not hear your pulse in the stethoscope. Keeping your eyes on the gauge, slowly release the pressure in the cuff by opening the airflow valve counter clockwise. The gauge should fall only two to three points with each heartbeat. (You may need to practise turning the valve slowly.) Listen carefully for the first pulse beat. As soon as you hear it, note the reading on the gauge. This reading is your systolic pressure. Continue to slowly deflate the cuff. Listen carefully until the sound disappears. As soon as you can no longer hear your pulse beat, note the reading on the gauge. This reading is your diastolic pressure. Allow the cuff to completely deflate.

IMPORTANT: If you released the pressure too quickly or could not hear your pulse, DO NOT inflate the cuff right away. Wait one minute before repeating the measurement. Start by reapplying the cuff.

If you are using a digital monitor:

Hold the bulb in your right hand. Press the power button. All display symbols should appear briefly, followed by a zero. This indicates that the monitor is ready. Inflate the cuff by squeezing the bulb with your right hand. If you have a monitor with automatic cuff inflation, press the start button. Watch the gauge. Keep inflating the cuff until the gauge reads about 30 points (mm Hg) above your expected systolic pressure. Sit quietly and watch the monitor. Pressure readings will be displayed on the screen. For some devices, values may appear on the left, then on the right. Most devices will also display your pulse rate. Wait for a long beep. This means that the measurement is complete. Note the pressures on the display screen. Systolic pressure appears on the left and diastolic pressure on the right. Your pulse rate may also be displayed in between or after this reading. Allow the cuff to deflate.

IMPORTANT: If you did not get an accurate reading, DO NOT inflate the cuff right away. Wait one minute before repeating the measurement. Start by reapplying the cuff.

Record your blood pressure.

Record the date, time and systolic and diastolic pressures.

My right leg shakes during orgasm

Thank, you for the great work that you are doing through your Saturday column on family and sex. I must sincerely tell you that it has tremendously and immensely changed and united many families. Each topic is very vital as sex cannot be removed from any home that wants to experience true happiness. Many people are ignorant of the fact that sex is one of the tools for a happy home.

This is my challenge and I need your advice: Just of recent, I started noticing that each time I have sexual relationship with my wife and I am about to ejaculate, my right leg would start shaking just at the peak of orgasm. As a practising Christian, I have prayed, but all to no avail. I have even tried to imagine what could be causing it but I am yet to come up with any reason or solution. Kindly help.

Lawson, Adamawa

Are you placed on a special hormonal drug or any drug that you might be reacting to? Pay attention to what you eat as some of the preservatives or component used could have been produced through chemicals that are harmful to your health. What is the health state of your prostate? Sometimes when the prostrate is inflamed, the right leg shakes during sex. I would advise that you try to see a medical practitioner and also know the antigen of your prostate gland. Men should know the specific antigen of their prostate when they are 30 years and above. So, go and do your P. S. A. prostate specific antigen.

I can’t sleep beside my wife after sex

I came across your responses to issues that border on sex in marriage and I was highly impressed. I hope you can help me and my marriage. Before I got married about ten years ago, I was never used to sleeping beside a woman after sex. I had thought that things would change after marriage, but the situation has persisted.

When I got married, I had to travel abroad. My wife joined me three years later. Then, the nightmare began. When she first arrived, I was literally sleeping at work because of lack of sleep. I tried all I could, and even resorted to sleeping pills to no avail.

When I gradually begin to fall slightly asleep, I have to turn my back to her. I always feel bad about doing that every night, but that is the only way I could grasp some sleep. We have been having a great sex life.

But in most cases afterwards, I would just lie there fully awake, while she falls asleep like a baby. It’s been ten years now, with two children, still, I can’t sleep facing her. She has not raised the issue and I never bothered to explain. I am not even sure she has noticed. What do I do?

Stephen, Grumoso

One basic foundational need in a successful marriage is the ability to adapt and adjust to marital changes. Marriage is like a refinery, where most of our ideas are fine-tuned and reshaped. If the situation is unbearable, take time out to discuss extensively with your wife and change room so that you can grasp some sleep.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]