Five reasons women avoid having sex
Many men are quick to conclude that their partners are satisfied with their sex life simply because the woman has not been complaining.

However, they also express surprise that their partner is hardly in the mood for sex, and she is always coming down with headaches and tiredness towards bed time.

Experts say while the excuses may be valid on occasions, often, there are underlying problems that make the woman avoid sex, even when she doesn’t necessarily love her partner less.

So, what are the five reasons that make women avoid sex? These ones…

• She’s finds sex painful

Sex should feel good — but 11 percent of the women in the survey reported feeling pain during sex. In fact, a separate study of nearly 7,000 British women also found that one in 13 women feel physical pain during sex. This made women more likely to feel uninterested in sex. Plus, they also had more trouble getting wet and reaching orgasm.

Focusing on foreplay, and a using little lubricant when she needs extra help can help remedy the situation, says lead study author, Dr. Kirstin Mitchell. Focusing on making her feel good will lead to less pain and more arousal, which ultimately leads to more (and better) sex for the both of you.

• You can’t get hard

This one is a bit out of her control: Six percent of women surveyed reported that their partner had sexual issues, like erectile dysfunction. While that may be out of her hands, it’s completely up to you to take care of your erection problems.

• She’s too tired

According to a survey of 2,000 women aged 30-80, a quarter of women reported avoiding sex because they were too tired. Indeed, a 2010 poll by the National Sleep Foundation found that married people or couples living together were too tired for frequent sex 21 to 26 percent of the time.

• There’s a lack of intimacy

Women say they avoid sex due to a lack of intimacy. Feeling connected to you is crucial for her, since research shows that women have trouble reaching orgasm if they’re not psychologically aroused. So, you can’t just push the right buttons physically — she has to feel mentally turned on, too.

• She feels anxious

Thirteen percent of women in the survey reported avoiding sex because they were anxious. This could potentially stem from any pain she’s feeling. In the study, women often felt anxious during sex because they started anticipating painful sex, Mitchell explains.

Feeling self-conscious about it can also make her feel nervous, as she may not want to bring it up and hurt your feelings. If things feel awkward, just communicate with her: Openly ask if what you’re doing feels good and go from there.