Ten ways couples can update their sexuality awareness
Funmi Akingbade

Despite the fact that we live in the post-Victorian, post-human potential movement, post-free love movement, we are still uncomfortable with our own sexuality. One would think that with all of the talk about sex, all of the books written about sex, and all of the movies depicting sexuality, we would finally have reached a point in our evolution where we would be as comfortable talking about and experimenting with sex as we are talking about food; sharing sexual information as readily as we share recipes. But this is not the case.

One … Let’s ask questions from resourceful persons, we are uncomfortable talking to our friends about sex; we are uncomfortable asking for help with our sexuality, and we certainly would not take lessons in how to increase our enjoyment of sex. We will take cooking classes to learn how to prepare a gourmet meal. We will take dancing lessons to better be able to trip the lights fantastic.

Two … Let’s take lesson from sex therapist or sexology if need be, we will take golf lessons, tennis lessons and any number of other lessons to increase our expertise and enhance our abilities. However, when it comes to sex, we assume that we should be able to function optimally without help. Furthermore, if we should want to increase our sexual pleasure or should we feel uncomfortable with some aspect of our sexual life, we feel embarrassed in seeking counsel.

Three … Never believe that sex is only a basic instinct; it should be learnt and acquired also. Generally, we carry the belief that we should know everything there is to know about sex as if sexual behaviour was encoded in our DNA. Most of us carry attitudes about sexuality that we learned when we were adolescents. We seldom take the time to update that information. As adults, we operate based on adolescent notions of sexuality. Ignorance is one of the most effective deterrents to effective sexual functioning.

Five … understand that human sexuality is enormous, versatile and multidimensional. There are no rules for the human sexual response. We can respond to the same sex or the opposite sex. We can have a sexual response when we are alone or with someone. We respond to living beings and inanimate objects. Human sexuality includes all of the senses — smell, touch, sound, sight, and taste. Sexuality involves imagination, fantasy and imagery.

Boys tend to learn about their sexuality through locker-room talk, erotic magazines and movies and trial and error.

Girls gain their sexual knowledge through conversations with other girls and women, love stories and movies and experience. For men, the sexual act is often a combination of pleasure, sexual release and power. For women, sexuality is often intimacy, affection and pleasure. Just think about the terms men and women use when referring to sex. Male terms tend to be aggressive, even hostile, while female terms are gentle, loving and even spiritual. Women make love, men get laid.

These attitudes and values affect the manner in which the genders approach sexuality and, in large measure, contribute to their appreciation of the sex act. Furthermore, these values affect how men and women perceive themselves and how they view each other.

Six … the differences are very obvious, generally, men establish their identity through performance. From childhood through adulthood, they measure themselves by such things as how far they can spit, how fast they can run, how far they can throw a football, grade point average, penis size, salary size, staying power in bed and the number of women they can “conquer.”

One way or another, performance matters. Women generally measure themselves by how attractive they are to men, the power held by the men that are attracted to them and by how they are treated by these men. If men treat them kindly, then they are good, if men treat them poorly, they perceive themselves bad.

Men and women bring these attitudes into the bedroom, playing out their roles as performer and seductress. During lovemaking, the male is concerned with whether he will perform well enough or whether he will fail. Rather than focusing on his loved one, he is concerned whether she will be pleased with his performance. She, on the other hand, is concerned with whether he will think she is attractive enough. Are her buttocks too big or are her breasts too small?

Seven … Sex has different languages of expression, lovemaking is similar to ballroom dancing. Each person may or may not be a good dancer. One person may be a great dancer and the other may not be terrific.

However, it is how they dance together that matters. Some people can dance well alone, but not with a partner. To be beautiful and satisfying, ballroom dancing demands cooperation, communication and consideration. One partner must not go on his or her own without communicating to the partner; and the partners must cooperate.

No couple expects to dance well together, no matter how well either one may dance alone, without practising together. It does not matter how easy it might be to dance with other partners, one’s current partner is the one that matters if you wish to become a good ballroom dance team.

All of this is true for lovemaking as well. Yet we often believe that good lovemaking should “come naturally,” without education.

Eight … We can make up our mind to update on sex, we covet beliefs that somehow people should know how to make love together and should not have to talk about it or practise with the intent of improving our style so that it is mutually satisfying. Clearly, if your dance partner continuously stepped on your toes and was unwilling to discuss the matter, it would not take long before you either stop dancing or find a different partner. Yet majority of couples do not communicate about their lovemaking and are not open to exploring their sexuality with one another. Even the most experienced lovers often practise poor lovemaking strategies. People, especially men, become defensive when their partner wants to discuss their sex life as if they were about to be criticised.

Nine … Communication is a vital key, communication between dance partners and lovers is essential for having a satisfying experience. The partners must frequently communicate verbally and non-verbally with one another in order to learn to anticipate each other’s moves. With sufficient practice, the dance of love seems effortless.

Lovemaking should be fun, playful, affectionate, intimate and fulfilling. When something goes awry, either because of faulty communication, inappropriate attitudes, or antiquated beliefs, a sexual dysfunction may emerge.

Ten … Couples must remember that most sex goes on between your ears, not between your legs! Good sex starts with a healthy attitude about sex.

The cardinal rules for good sex are: respect your married partner

-adopt a healthy attitude towards your partner and sex

-share your thoughts and feelings with your spouse

-talk about what you like and don’t like

-be honest

-experiment

-have fun and relax

-practise and keep practising because practice makes perfect.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

What to do when she is pregnant?

We are newly married and already my wife and I are anticipating her first pregnancy, but I am a little bit concerned. My object of concern is just what to expect sexually while she is pregnant. I love sex, dream of sex, engage in sex with a high velocity and I really would not want any pregnancy to put me on hold for the nine-month period of her pregnancy. Besides this, I know my wife secretly fears the size of my penis thinking it may cause damage to the baby or be too big for her while in pregnancy state. I am highly endowed and this is really not to my advantage.

The best married husband so far

There is actually no need for you to experience fear or anxiety of any kind. Both of you can still experience blissful sex from day one of conception to few days to delivery. The best ways to experience blissfulness are as follows-;

One … Be very understanding, caring and tolerant to any change in condition especially any of her particular or unique reaction to pregnancy. The moment this is in place, I can assure you that both of you are going to experience the best of sex.

Two … I need you to know that the vaginal secretions generally have a much stronger odour during pregnancy than at other times, so it is advisable to encourage her to clean up well.

Three … How much a woman wants and enjoys sex can vary during pregnancy, not only from one woman to another, but also in the same woman at different times throughout the 40 weeks.

Three … In fact, some women have their first orgasm or multiple orgasms while pregnant.

Five … I also need to tell expectant pregnant wives this: remember that, just because your husband wants you to start the sexual encounter doesn’t mean he expects you to take over the sex bed. Once he knows you are hot for him on bed, he’ll be so turned on he’ll be the one jumping all over you. But kindly be careful not to hurt your wife or the baby.

Six … both husband and wife must know that if sex hurts so badly first, it may be likely the wife is not producing enough lubricant. So buy additional artificial lubricant to prevent friction, pain and hurt. Then it may also be that you both are not spending enough time together during foreplay. If you spend quite a good time with foreplay to become adequately aroused, sex will definitely be without much pain.

Seven … The vagina can accommodate any size of a penis inasmuch as the same vagina can accommodate the head of a new born baby and so far, there has not been any penis size that is as big as the head of a new born or the body mass of a new born baby. Any time you and your wife are getting busy, take it slow. Wife, have your husband lavish attention on all your hot spots, with plenty of genital touching and tongue teasing. And make sure you apply some water-based lube to your vagina or his shaft right before he enters you.

She has lost interest in sex

I am a regular reader of your column. I got married about seven years ago and the marriage is blessed with two lovely kids, six and two years old respectively. I fall in the category of men who did not have the ‘’best of time’’, sexually before marriage due to parental strictness and guidance (a blessing in disguise, you will say). Hence, I was looking forward to a sexually enjoyable and explosive marriage. I met my wife a virgin and she never allowed me to have sexual intercourse during our courtship.

The first six months of our marriage was beautiful when it comes to sex, but after then, her interest dwindled; she did not initiate sex anymore and I became more of burden anytime I demanded sex at night. These days, I am lucky when I am able to have it once in a week; best-case scenario is twice in a week. I have tried my best to make her happy by buying her gifts from time to time; but the effect does not last long. I bought a Honda car for her just for good sex, but nothing changes.

It is becoming so frustrating. I have tried on a couple of occasions to make her read your columns but she does not; she is not an avid reader. I am giving up the fight and I do not want to seek for pleasure outside my marriage, even though the temptations are always there.

I am confused.

Bolero kunle

Thanks a lot for sharing with me, l want to first appreciate the fact that you have done a great job by not taking irrational decisions. I would also want to add that you should try to create time out that you will actually pour your heart out to your wife the way you did to me now. I am so sure, when she sees the importance, she will definitely change because no woman wants her marriage to pack up. You can do this by going for a weekend vacation to a free, quiet and private place together, keep the children with trusted friends and just go out alone together. This eradicates stress and helps both of you to unwind.

You should also remember that affection and foreplay mean a lot to many ladies, if you skip foreplay, most of them feel as if they are being legally raped or put under the knife of a surgeon. Then make sure that the way and manner you address and talk to her is befitting a wife and not an elevated house girl.

My condom slips off

I recently got married to a young beautiful girl. We decided not to start child-bearing immediately after marriage. We resorted to using condom for family planning. But my problem is that during sex, the condom slips off too frequently and this is quite irritating. Is there a better way to wear it? I don’t want to use any other method.

Marvel

I can understand your frustrations, because badly fitting condoms reduce the sexual pleasure of couples. A recent study on 436 men found that 45 per cent had used ill-fitting condoms before. These men were more than twice as likely to report the condom breaking or slipping and contributing to difficulty in reaching orgasm for both partners. They were also five times more likely to suffer irritation of the penis and report reduced sexual pleasure for them and their partners. Using condoms also affected erections, with men around twice as likely to say they interfered with their erection or caused erection loss.

Some husbands who also complained of condoms becoming dry during sex were twice as likely to remove the condom before the end of intercourse. When next you want to purchase a condom, ask questions such as the size, the make and brand name. This will assist you to choose the right one.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]