Five annoying things men do during sex (2)
This is the part two of what you need to know about those things that men do during sex, which set women boiling!

• You attack her clitoris

Orgasm doesn’t happen via clitoral stimulation.

“Men think ‘clitoris, clitoris, clitoris’ — they think it’s all about the clitoris, so they focus on it,” says a dating and relationships coach, DeAnna Lorraine.

“But they don’t realise it’s incredibly sensitive. It doesn’t need to be jackhammered or be the sole focus.” Instead of going straight to high-speed stimulation, start by very slowly stroking her clitoris — and let her body tell you when it’s time to try a new move.

“Sometimes, women will shift their partner’s fingers aside or shift a little bit because it’s getting too sensitive,” says Lorraine.

• You’re overly commanding in bed

Yes, it can be totally erotic to be told exactly what to do between the sheets — but, remember, there’s a difference between taking the reins and being controlling.

“It’s nice when a man is in charge and he has a sense of confidence about him,” says a licensed marriage and family therapist, Monica Lieser. “That’s very different from just running over somebody.”

How can you tell if you’re crossing the line? One clear signal: You direct her into a position that you’ve never tried before. “It’s just assumed that the partner will do it,” says Lieser.

If you want to be a little dominating, only command her to do things you’ve experimented with in the past — and mutually enjoyed.

• Manual stimulation is your first move

To you, it’s an awesome appetizer to the main event — but to her, starting with clitoral stimulation just feels a little invasive.

“Men think that a woman must be manually stimulated in order to become turned on,” says Lieser. “But there’s nothing arousing (to her) about putting your finger in a vagina that is not lubricated. In fact, you’ve just gone back by about five feet!”

The most reliable way to make her wet: Touch her everywhere but her genitals. That will rev up her desire and help lubricate her — and only then will she be ready for you to go near her vagina.

• You initiate dirty talk unexpectedly

We’re not talking about spewing your go-to phrases in a moment of passion — that’s fine. We mean randomly upping the dirty-talk ante — spouting off a string of expletives she didn’t see coming.

“You were already there in your head, but your partner wasn’t there yet,” says Lieser. “So, there is this catch-up game.” In other words, you mentally built up the necessary arousal for your dirty talk to seem appropriate, but your girl is just caught off guard.

SEE ALSO: Five annoying things men do during sex (1)

• You try to last as long as possible

Believe it or not, marathon sex probably won’t boost her satisfaction. But it will encourage her to mentally do her grocery shopping or plan tomorrow’s outfit.

“Men hear all this stuff about stamina, so they think the longer they last, the better,” says Lorraine. “But when you keep going and going, it’s kind of like chopping wood after a while.” (She compares it to being massaged in the same spot for 45 minutes. Not fun, right?)

How can you tell if she’s disconnecting? “She will stop making noises, or she’ll just kind of stop trying—you can feel a limpness in her,” says Lorraine.

Take that as your cue to wrap things up.

The bottom line: Study your woman and know what she likes!

Sources: Menshealth, Prevention, ForHer, Womenshealthman