Shower gel sets woman’s vagina ‘ablaze’
Shower gels are designed to give you a refreshing, tingly feeling on your skin when you use one.

However, careless application can result in unpleasant experience, as this Facebook user later said of her experience.

The woman who goes by a Facebook identity, I Know, I Need To Stop Talking, said she had used the mint and tea gel made by the Original Source.

She wrote: “I washed my arms and shaved underneath them. I washed my neck, breasts, stomach and back. Thus far, it had been a positively first class bathing experience.

“And then. and then. Oh. Dear. God. My vagina was ablaze.

“For a moment, I wasn’t entirely sure what had happened. Had I repeated the never-to-be-forgotten error when I managed to apply hair removal cream which was strictly not for front bottoms to my front bottom?

“Had a stray spark inadvertently set light to my pubic thatch? Because it f***ing felt like it.

“Yes, Original Source, your innocuous looking green bottle of so-called shower gel, it turns out, is an absolute f***ing liability.

“My flaps were on f***ing fire. I had a quick look at the ingredients list to see if it contained gasoline. It did not.

“There was a warning though. ‘Keep away from eyes.’ Keep away from eyes? Keep away from eyes? Frankly, my eyes were the least of my problems right now.

“I frantically scrubbed my flaps, which by now felt as though they were being ceremoniously scrubbed by ants wearing ice skates laced with chilli sauce.

“‘7,929 tingling leaves’”, claimed the front of the bottle. Tingling? tingling? This wasn’t tingling my minge. It was starting a f***ing bush fire down there.”

She said that 12 hours later, her “front bottom” had “calmed down,” but she wanted to pen the note “in the interest of public safety.”

She also suggested a new tag line for Original Source’s gel, which read: ‘7,297 tingling leaves which will accost your genitalia until it screams for mercy.’”

The post was greeted with comments from sympathetic clean people who had made the same mistake on themselves or their children.