Five annoying things men do during sex (1)
Agreed, men do all they can to please their women in bed; but sometimes, they still manage to annoy women during that sacred moment.

The following are some of the things that can annoy your woman during sex:

• You leave your socks on

Maybe you just like keeping your feet warm — or perhaps you think leaving your knee-high socks on is as erotic as her wearing heels to bed. Well, this is wrong, because it’s actually a major mood-killer for women. For one, it is not visually attractive, says a licensed marriage and family therapist, Monica Lieser.

Another not-so-innocent implication: Sporting socks during sex may suggest you’re so agenda-driven — get in, get off! — that you’re unwilling to even fully undress. If you like the idea of staying partially clothed, leave your pants around your ankles instead of stripping down to your socks, Lieser suggests.

• You repeatedly touch her no-go zones

Every woman has a few places on her body — often her stomach or her thighs — that she feels self-conscious about when it comes to someone touching her. And consistently trying to bring that sensitive spot into sex play won’t ease her discomfort.

“If you’re trying to put your hands on this body part, even if you say you’re admiring it, it’s a quick way to shut her down,” says a dating and relationships coach, DeAnna Lorraine.

It can also suggest a lack of imagination. If you really can’t keep your hands off, tell her why you love that certain spot.

• You let her do all the work when she’s on top

Woman on top is a position of sexual power for females — but that doesn’t mean she wants to have sex with a dead fish. Even when she’s in control, she’s looking for an engaged bedmate. Just lying still can leave her feeling a little directionless.

It makes a woman self-conscious — like, what is he expecting me to do right now? So, make some physical contact: Touch her breasts, caress her backside, or even just grab her butt.

SEE ALSO: Five annoying things men do during sex (2)

• You keep calling her “baby”

The occasional “baby” or “honey” can make your partner feel connected. But overdo it on the generic pet names, and you’ll just sound like a seductive sweet talker.

“It makes it impersonal—like it’s not really her that you’re with,” says Lieser.

You can always stick to her first name — she’ll love hearing you scream her name in the throes of pleasure — or for more intimate moments, use her nickname that you’d never want your friends to know about.

“It’s better to have a specific pet name for a girl, like Dimples or Sugar Pants—something that’s just between the two of you, instead of ‘baby’ or ‘babe,’” says Lorraine.

• You gaze at her vagina

Look, all those intricate folds are fascinating. But staring down her lady parts during oral doesn’t make her feel appreciated — it’s just kind of creepy.

“A little bit of looking and admiring is fine,” says Lorraine. “But don’t fully focus on it.”

While it’s okay to compliment her vagina — that’s an easy way to help her relax during oral — or even to say you love watching as you enter her. Just don’t gawk.

Sources: Menshealth, Prevention, Streetwise