If you discovered your spouse slept with your landlord/lady to prevent eviction, what would you do?
In a time like this, the prevailing recession in Nigeria may make people susceptible to different tricks to survive the hard times. Payment of rent could be so unsettling for families that a man or woman may be forced to do something as unthinkable as sleeping with the landlord to retain their apartment. Saturday Punch asked Nigerians what they would do if they discovered that their spouse had slept with their landlord to get a rent cancellation

It will forever be a mental scar

Seyi Akinsulie

In all honesty, I would be extremely mad at her and she might not look the same way in my eyes anymore. I might understand the reason behind her action but it will forever be a mental scar I would never be able to rub off. I will not divorce her; I can never harm or hurt a woman, not to talk of my wife. It’s hard but I can’t trust her again. My general belief is that where there is life, there is hope. I would rather fight and hope things get better than defile our “holy matrimony.”

We will move out

Folakemi Ajewole

He had better give me a good explanation on that. We would still have to pack out of the house if not, it would not be cool between us. I want to believe that it would continue that way forever as both of them will be sleeping with each other. If he wanted to protect us from being thrown in the street suddenly, he knows the appropriate thing to do. I also want to believe that my landlady wanted that initially because how would she suddenly increase the house rent without notice. Next time she needs my house again, she will come up with another strategy. We will leave that apartment

I can’t live with her again

Olakunle Ojo

If my wife had to sleep with our landlord so we don’t get evicted from the apartment, that’s huge! Well, either way, I am still going to leave the house but, I am not sure she will be coming with me. I am an African man living in an African setting, and it’s a taboo for her to have done that without asking me. I can’t live with her again because the trust will be gone. How am I even sure if the landlord is the only beneficiary of her ‘generosity?’ Her action will raise a lot of questions which may never be answered for the rest of our lives.

I would not mind

Christiana Osatuyi

If at that time we didn’t have the money for the rent, I would not mind. There’s no assurance that he does not have other ladies he is sleeping with outside. As far as he did it just to provide shelter over our heads, I would not mind. If I found out on my own without him telling me, I would not even ask him. Though it is not easy, I will accept it to be one of the prices we have to pay in life.

I will divorce her

Oladejo Saheed

If I discover my wife slept with my landlord for house rent, I will first of all make findings as to whether she was threatened or she voluntarily did it. If she did it voluntarily, I will divorce her and move out of the house. But if not, I would sue the landlord for threatening her to do such a thing. It is totally absurd for her to have stooped so low to have done that. There are other ways she could help to pay the rent and not her sleeping with my landlord.

The landlady will keep coming back for more

Anjola Oshiga

Why on earth would he sleep with her because of rent? He does not have to, he has no excuse at all. I do not care what he thinks of the sacrifice he might have made for me and the kids but we are moving out of that apartment. We would move out once we have enough money to get a better place. The landlady would want to keep coming back for more and this will break my home in the long run. I can’t even stand looking at the so-called landlady anymore because I might end up doing what I would later regret. We are moving out as soon as possible.

It will hurt so badly

Adefemi Alayaki

It is going to hurt so badly and it’s a big shame on my personality. I just have to forgive my wife and move on with the secret plans of moving out of the house because there is no way I am going to be comfortable staying there again. So just to protect the integrity of my home from the so called landlord, we will need to move out as soon as possible to get another place far away from that vicinity. I will forgive her because she wanted to shield our family from embarrassment.

He will do it again for other reasons

Odaroh Elizabeth

If my husband should sleep with our landlady, we would just talk it out like civilized human beings. Although sleeping with her for the payment of rent is highly unacceptable. I must know why he slept with her, because we can gather money to pay the rent together. If I decide to pack out of the house, there is no place I would go to and I know that if I should accept my husband back easily, he will do it again for other reason. I don’t want to believe that he slept with her for house rent; only maybe they have been giving each other signs. He is my husband, we will talk it out and he would assure me that it would not happen again.

She will return to her father’s house

Peter Simon

I would not be happy with her knowing that what she did was totally wrong because no matter what, she did not need to sell her body for anything. The deed has been done; the only remedy now is for her to leave the house for me because if something like that should happen again, she is still going to do the same thing. So, the best thing is for her to go back to her father’s house until I am ready to forgive her. No circumstance can warrant a married woman to do that. As long as I am the man and the breadwinner of the house, she does not need to do that. What is the point living with someone you do not trust? We love someone because we trust them, if there is no trust, then there is no love.

He’s my husband, the deed has been done

Favour Ulebor

He should struggle to get the rent and not to be so cheap to sleep with the landlady because of house rent. If he could do such a thing, what does he expect me to do? I would have to forgive him anyway, because he is my husband and the deed has been done but he will swear to me that it will never repeat itself. I cannot leave him; it is for better for worse. He must learn how to work for his money and stop sleeping with the landlady for such reason.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]