Seven signs your spouse is cheating on you ‘Emotionally’
Jesusegun Alagbe

Dimeji and Dupe Olawale (not real names) are currently not on good terms.

Dupe works as a nurse in one of the public hospitals in Lagos, while Dimeji is an accountant at an oil servicing company in Port Harcourt, Rivers State.

Since the couple — who have three children — live 620 kilometres apart [according to Google Maps estimate], they talk more on the phone and sometimes via WhatsApp video call, especially at weekends.

The only period Dimeji comes home is when there is a public holiday or when he feels like he is missing his family, to wit he jets out of Port Harcourt Friday evening and returns to work on Monday morning.

“But even when he’s around, you can’t feel his presence at home. He cuddles his laptop and fondles with his smartphone all day long, talking to the same people he left at work in Port Harcourt,” Dupe complained bitterly to our correspondent. “He barely has time for me and the kids. So, what’s the point of him coming home if he can’t spend time with us?”

Apparently, Dimeji had done the same thing his wife accused him of when he was in Lagos last weekend, which is why she has since been pissed off at him.

She said, “He was around again last weekend, but I could barely feel that he was around. He got to Lagos around 8pm on Friday. I would have loved to go and pick him up at the airport, but I told him to charter a taxi because I thought to myself, what’s the essence of him coming home?

“He got home around 9.30pm, he showered, ate the meal I served him and resumed back to his laptop. I was mad. He was busy browsing the internet while I was waiting for him in the bedroom after his meal. I told him to come into the room, but he ignored me. I slept off.

“The following day, which was Saturday, I asked him to take me to see the movies. The kids could stay with my sister who was around. He agreed, only for him to change his mind later. He said he had a meeting with his friends. He came back very late, we couldn’t go out again. Even when he came back, he started caressing his phone again and making nonsense hilarious laughters at some comic social media video posts.

“On Sunday, we went to church and from there we went to see a family friend. We got home around 7pm. By the time I would finish cooking, he had started packing his luggage. By 5am on Monday, he had vanished out of Lagos again. He had no intimate moment with me throughout the weekend — as usual!”

Although Dupe did not insinuate her husband was cheating on her, Dimeji is very well cheating on her, but rather emotionally, according to Dr. Sheri Meyers, an American marriage therapist and the author of Chatting or Cheating: How to Detect Infidelity, Rebuild Love and Affair-Proof Your Relationship.

Meyers defined emotional cheating or affair as a relationship between a person and someone/something other than their spouse/lover that affects the level of intimacy, emotional distance and overall dynamic balance in the marriage.

Stating that the role of an emotional affair was to create emotional distance in marriage, Meyers added that the phenomenon injures a relationship more than a “one night stand or other casual sexual encounters.”

Dr. Jane Greer — an American marriage/family therapist and author of What About Me? Stop Selfishness From Ruining Your Relationship — likewise said in a publication in Women’s Health magazine that although someone might be faithful physically to their spouse, they could, however, be cheating on them emotionally, just as the case of Dimeji.

Greer, in her publication titled, “Seven signs your partner might be having an emotional affair,” asked partners to look for the following pointers to know if their loved ones are having an emotional affair:

Change in tech habits

If your spouse no longer texts you very often and is suddenly glued to their phone or spends more time browsing on social media than they used to, something might be up, said Greer.

And if they start dodging details about who they’re keeping in touch with, this could be a subtle admission of guilt, she added.

“In some instances, your spouse knows what they’re doing isn’t quite right and that you’d understandably feel jealous, so they avoid and evade, thinking that what you don’t know won’t hurt you.”

Reduced sex life

Greer suggested that when a person is having an emotional affair that hasn’t yet turned physical, the frequency of sex with their partner can actually increase.

“When there’s an uptick in emotional intimacy with someone new, the level of sexual interest in one’s current partner takes a nosedive,” she added.

Distance or detachment

If someone is scoring attention and emotional support from someone else, they might stop discussing the intricacies of their life with their partner, Greer said, adding that since people have limited emotional energy to go round, their attention tends to go where they are most drawn.

“Over time, this can also lead to physical detachment. If your partner is spending the time they previously spent with you on someone else, that is an immediate warning sign that needs to be addressed,” she added.

Attitudinal change

In addition to pulling away, your spouse may start praising their new obsession and criticising you. For instance, a man may start throwing shade about his wife’s cooking skills or dress sense, even though these aspects never bothered him before.

Greer added, “This is an especially dangerous territory because your partner may be unconsciously sizing you up, comparing you to a fantasy version of the other person and idealising what it might be like to be with them.”

They drop your name constantly

“We mention friends from time to time, but a constant name drop is disrespectful and inappropriate,” Greer said. “It’s basically an invitation for you to call your spouse on it. And when you do, take note of their reaction. If they’re super-defensive and reiterate that there’s nothing going on multiple times, or they’re super-forceful about wanting you to believe them, it might be time to take stock of their loyalty.”

They argue with you differently

If you’re hearing new and surprising comments from your spouse in response to disagreements you’ve been having for a long time, it could be a sign that they’ve been spilling on your relationship issues with them, and then absorbing their commentary — unlike before. Your spouse might be doing this to quickly allow you to say what you want to say so they could go back to the new thing or person that they’re giving attention.

You’re feeling like third party in your relationship

Let’s say you’re at a party with your partner and their friend shows up. If your spouse immediately leaves you alone to tend to the needs of their friend, that’s the big red flag, according to Greer.

“If you start to feel like you’re not number one and that everything significant isn’t being shared with you first, you may not be on solid ground in your relationship,” she added.

Speaking to Saturday PUNCH, London-based Nigerian family therapist, Dr. (Mrs.) Mary Banjoko, said in her over 20 years of practice, she had seen couples divorce due to issues stated above.

“The thing that makes couples divorce these days is not even extra-marital affair, they are the issues stated above. Emotional affair is more dangerous. Once there is an emotional separation, the marriage starts to crumble,” she said via LinkedIn.

“I remember a case of a Nigerian couple here in London in 2015 who were nearly on the verge of divorce. The problem was — the husband was always reading novels and surfing the internet at weekends. The wife felt they should be spending the weekends together. She saw her husband as being selfish and uncaring. Of course, she was right.

“The lady was very bothered at that time. But after having some discussions with them, with prayers, the guy changed. Thankfully, they are still together and they have two kids now.”

Banjoko advised that if the signs that Greer stated in her publication apply to one’s spouse and one can’t shake the feeling that something’s up, it’s better to be upfront about one’s concerns sooner rather than later.

She said, “You ought to talk in marriage. You discuss issues. In my experience in this profession, sometimes women would just be complaining about their husbands’ habits and when I asked them, ‘Have you discussed with him?’ they would say no. Other times, it could be the husband also nagging about his wife’s habits.

“Here’s what I tell them: Bring issues up by saying that you feel your partner has been distant and that it has something to do with the closeness they’ve developed with another person or thing. They won’t kill you. Be honest about wanting them to stop the bad habits. Reinvest in your relationship, discuss problems and rebuild your bond. Put an end to every emotional affair!

“Expressing your hurt and concern doesn’t mean you’re pointing fingers; it just means you care about what happens to your relationship and that you’re willing to do the work,” Banjoko added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]