16 ways married couples can arouse each other’s desire (3)
Funmi Akingbade

[email protected]

08096762941

08029593116

Last week we started a series of ways married couples can arouse each other’s sexual desire. Today, we shall be giving the concluding part.

One of the ways couples can get each other aroused is by finding ways to communicate the importance of sex in marriage. Many couples have erroneous idea about sex in marriage, some think it is just basically to make babies, some think it is just an expression of our animalistic nature. Some think it is purely an obligation to be carried out while others only see it as a means to self-satisfy themselves. When couples don’t sit down to communicate their different views of sex in marriage, the pleasure, desire and interest easily wear out and libido drops.

Seventeen … I need us to know that in different parts of the world, sex is viewed as an act that should be the exclusive right of married couples. Beyond physical pleasure, it helps to strengthen the bond that already exists between a man and his wife. Unfortunately, hang-ups, personal misgivings and myths make it difficult for most couples to fully enjoy this beautiful gift from God. Some people believe that sex is evil and that it may be the reason why misfortunes have continued to afflict mankind since creation. But the truth is that sex is more than mere physical activity. It is both emotional and spiritual. God himself invented sex and built it into man in the form of an instinct or an urge that must be satisfied, in the same way as the hunger instinct.

Besides, since God has declared that all the instincts in men are good, we should also see sex as good. Some married couples are of the opinion that sex should be for only procreation. Such couples are still clearly far from the truth. The truth is that couples should concentrate on making their sex lives fulfilling to prevent a situation where a party decides to seek sexual satisfactions elsewhere. Husbands should not see their wives as sex toys that are desired only when they want to ‘release tension’. Since both partners have similar, but equal libidinal drives, careful consideration should be given to the wife.

Any married couple that truly wants to enjoy a healthy sex life should attempt to find out what good sex means to each other. It is not to assume that you already know enough. You only need to ask and you will be amazed at your partner’s idea of what good sex should be. This is necessary because every man and every woman have different sexual needs and preferences. Each person expresses his or her sexual needs in some special ways, with regards to positions, arrangements, places, time, approaches and accessories, which also differ greatly.

Eighteen … In addition, a couple can experiences good sex if both partners understand the basic differences that exist between the male and female genders. For example, the male is highly aggressive sexually. He is as a matter of fact more sexually oriented than the female. Apart from this, the male hormone, testosterone gets fired up easily and does not take much time to be set ablaze. This is because men frequently think about sex more than women do. Men always feel good knowing that they are sexually desired by their wives. Most men are easily stimulated by visual images. They are turned on by erotic pictures, skimpy dressing and nudity. Studies have shown that at least 90 per cent of men are tempted by pornography and they are easily aroused by the anatomy of the women folk. This is why most husbands become easily aroused whenever their wives undress in the bedroom.

Nineteen … When having sex, men are like electric bulbs or aluminum cooking pots that get easily heated up. They are quicker to respond to manual stimulation than their wives are and, of course, prone to hurrying through the process.

Twenty … Here in Africa, men express feelings of love to their wives through sex; romance is mostly displayed through sex because the society and culture do not permit the male gender to be emotionally expressive. They settle argument in the home through sex, too. To most men, having an intense sexual relationship is often a physical and emotional tranquiliser; it enables them to relax afterwards. They are usually very calm and peaceful after each satisfying sexual encounter with their wives. The physical release resulting from an explosive orgasm is one of the most powerful sources of a ‘high’ for men. As a result, a sexually fulfilled man is not prone to high blood pressure. Nor does he grow grey hairs too early.

Twenty-one … Sex is the only thing that truly amuses and entertains the men folk. Women ought to understand that men are hardly disturbed during lovemaking. Most men tend to enjoy themselves, with or without noise of any kind. Television does not provide true recreation, but a temporary escape from pressure and worries. That is why after orgasm, they have a pleasant sense of satisfaction.

Twenty-two … Wives should know that sexual desire in a man is basically a matter of hormonal functions and regulations and that it is purely physical. So, when a wife maintains a balanced and enthusiastic sexual relationship in her marriage, her husband feels more secure, even more caring and loving, as he grows older. On the other hand, women are mostly aroused when their emotional needs are satisfied. Naturally, they offer sex in exchange for affection and intimacy. Affection to women is what sex is to men. It is their most sensitive cord to sexual response. Sweet talks, kind, tender gesture and loving care can turn a woman on easily. Understanding and tolerant partners quickly and effortlessly stimulate women and they always get the best from them.

Twenty-three … Women want to be regarded as valuable, important and worthy person by their spouses. They want to feel treasures. That is why they easily ‘give in’ sexually to spouses who are attentive listeners and who appreciate them as worthy human beings and not just sexual partners. Women like to be treated as precious beings. This convinces them beyond doubt that they are the most important and significant persons in their husband’s lives.

So, what should men do? They should pay more attention to their wives and learn to speak words of encouragement all the time. Lovemaking for a woman does not start in the bedroom; it starts long before then! It starts when the husband listens, values her opinion and respects her ideas. All these give a woman the emotional stability needed for good sex.

Twenty-four … A woman may appear to admire a handsome partner with a well-toned body, but this is definitely not her priority when it comes to lovemaking. Men should understand that a lot of psychological networking of emotional connections must have taken place before a woman is truly ready for sex. When a woman is genuinely tired, the last thing that is on her mind is sex. Women get easily disturbed at the slightest noise. It could be when the light is suddenly switched on, the bedroom door is not properly locked, or when it suddenly swings open; or when the privacy she envisages is not just enough. Jokingly, I often advise couples to put the mattress on the floor if the spring of the bed is too noisy! Sex is more exhilarating on the floor; it helps to strengthen the bones.

Question and Answer

Please help pass this on, it will help someone out there

I just want to use this medium to address some partners in my category to borrow a leaf from me and do the right thing. That was why l wrote to you to please publish my experience for general consumption. My attitude before then was: “We can make love if the children are asleep, the house is clean, and we‘re both freshly showered and in bed in a tidy room, with the lights down low. Did you get your hair cut lately? Please go and shave; my skin is too tender for your beard.” Little did I know that the chance was slim for a man to meet all these conditions at the same time or at all times! Even if we were able to accomplish everything on my “must-do before sex” list, we were much more likely to drop wearily on the couch instead of passionately exploring each other‘s body in each other’s arms.

Something had to give. I couldn‘t keep up with all my requirements and have the energy for intimacy. I needed to simplify my life. I was too rigid for my husband.

When I started reading the articles, a thought occurred to me: what would my husband think if I suddenly let go and pursue lovemaking when things weren‘t perfect, when the dishes were left on the table?

This wasn’t going to be easy. I needed a role model. I chose sex and sexuality column. The column advocates pleasing one’s husband in every way possible. I wondered what the ladies my man frequently visited had that I didn‘t have. Then I realised it was the other way round. These ladies didn‘t have a house they could keep clean or a shopping list or tasks they must perform. They didn’t care a hoot about orderliness. Rather, they provided the passion and pleasure he needed. They inflamed his passion and set the stage for him to come again and again.

Was it possible I could expect less and get more? Less home chores, less complaint, more physical touch, more sparkles on my eyes towards his approaches? Less tasks and more romance? What woman in her right mind would do otherwise? But as an exhausted mother with young children, I wasn‘t in my right mind, so I needed to practise.

I started small. My initial thought was: ‘what if I let the dishes go until morning so we could get to bed earlier and allow a “standing ovation” type of sex to take place as advocated by the columnist?’ I realised that this, rather than having a clean kitchen always, makes him feel much better.

A clean kitchen would never make him feel better than spending the next hour with him, connecting to each other in a way designed by God? No amount of cleanliness would make a kitchen surpass that?

Then I took it a step further, getting used to walking past things that I could not pick up until a messy floor didn‘t bother me again, at least not as much as it used to. l started walking around the house with various ‘oh my God‘ night wears specially designed for him. My husband became really confused when each time he reached down to help me clean he heard me say, ”Honey, thank you, but l’d rather leave the floor that way than not having those sessions with you tonight.” The best part came when I read in one of the articles about oral sex, where the columnist quoted Song of Songs about the lover and the beloved stealing away to a beautiful garden. The lover describes his beloved as a precious myrrh just as she too portrays him as a delightful spice. Not once does he say, ”Your kitchen sparkles like the stars of heaven and is scented with the aroma of a thousand pines.” It is all about the beauty and desire they found in each other.

Reading that book made me realize that I rarely expressed the attraction I had for my husband‘s body. So I put it to practice one day, quoting Song of Songs 5:15, I blurted, ”Your legs are like pillars of marble, my honey!” He was pleasantly shocked and smiled like a little boy who had just received his dream power-bike toy.

To this day, I often tell my husband how attractive he is, specifically admiring the bright colour of his eyes, the strength of his legs, or the handsome turn of his smile. Now, when I start a sentence with ”Honey,” he gives me his full tender attention. There’s a much better chance that a compliment will follow and you can imagine the effect of such compliment.

We‘ve been married for seven years and I have adopted this method for more than a year now. And I‘ve continued pursuing moments in the garden. Sometimes it’s a simple “I‘m naked under these clothes,” which is always true but intriguing when said out loud. At other times, it is something special on his pillow (even if the bed is unmade) or clothing that’s slightly more feminine than what I usually wear.

It’s important that I take him as he is, without requirements. No shower, cologne, valentine flowers. Just him and his “out of Africa” manliness. His brute, organic, and earthy being. Of course, his visits to “disputable places” stopped.

There will always be pressures that sap my energy and time. But I’ve learnt to embrace what is erotic and splendid for the union, putting housework on hold for a while and keeping fire work of sex aglow always.

Please do not print my name or e-mail address.

I hate sex but I am married

I have been married now for two years and I absolutely hate sex. It seems my mind and body are totally disconnected because sometimes my body shows signs of arousal, but my mind does not follow. I am so much more comfortable with friendship with my husband than sexual love. However, I know that sexual love is essential to a healthy marriage. How can I get my mind and body in shape?

Mrs. Olokodana Modupe-Oshin

If your body can get sexually aroused, your mind can come around. When it does, your sexual relationship will contribute much more to your overall marital success. The fact that you occasionally sense physical arousal indicates that your physiological response is intact.

My solution to your “thinking” problem is that you explore the background of your attitudes. Many developmental byways can create roadblocks to sexual pleasure. Probably, the most common is a negative attitude about sexuality in your family of origin. Mothers who have had unpleasant experiences will sex teach their daughters that sex is a ‘necessary evil’ or an unpleasant duty that women must endure and this, of course, will definitely have a negative effect on the marriage of such daughter.

A slightly different dynamic that is well intentioned, but can engender resistances to sexual fulfilment is a message of caution and restraint.

This may help a girl keep herself pure before marriage (which l highly recommend), but if the prohibition is not removed, it can easily be carried over into marriage. “Good girls don’t enjoy sex” is a powerful message that has bouncing back effect. More destructive and regrettably common is a history of sexual abuse.

The memories of that trauma are often repressed and unconscious, but have lasting impact on the emotional response to sexually intimate situations. Avoidance of the emotional pain that has been repressed requires mental resistance that effectively shuts down motivation for sexual intimacy.

There is also the possibility that the problem is related to relational or sexual technique in your marriage.

Can I have intercourse with my wife during breastfeeding?

My wife was delivered of a baby boy four months ago. My enquiry is whether it is safe to sleep with her when she is still breast feeding the baby? Thank you and God bless.

O.G.M., Anambra State

It is absolutely safe. The only caution is that you have to make sure she does exclusive breast-feeding; she must breastfeed the baby at least ten times a day so as to prevent pregnancy from occurring. If not, there is the possibility of becoming pregnant while still breastfeeding.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]