What to expect from sex with uncircumcised man
Though the average Nigerian man is circumcised, there are cultures where males are not circumcised until they reach certain age.

If you happen to find yourself in bed with a man whose foreskin is still intact, here’s what to expect…

Risk of infection: Experts warn that when a man is uncircumcised, moisture can get trapped between his penis and his foreskin, creating the ideal environment for bacteria to incubate.

“Female sex partners of uncircumcised men are at increased risk of bacterial vaginosis,” says an epidemiologist at the University of Illinois at Chicago, Dr. Supriya Mehta.

Such men may also be more likely to pass along any infections they have, including yeast infections, Urinary Tract Infections, and Sexually Transmitted Diseases, particularly HPV and HIV.

Dirty groin area: It can be pretty difficult to keep an uncircumcised penis fresh 100 percent of the time, experts say. “Although most men that are uncircumcised do a very good job cleaning below the foreskin, it’s more of a task for them,” says Mehta.

Increased pleasure: One recent study from Denmark found that women with circumcised spouses were twice as likely to report dissatisfaction with sex than those with uncircumcised hubbies. This is because the foreskin can be a tool for pleasure.

The reason is simple: When an uncircumcised man’s foreskin retracts during erection, it may bunch up around the base of his penis, providing a little extra friction against the clitoris.

“This is going to play a role in pleasure for women who have the clitoral pattern of arousal,” Mehta says.

Less pain: Again, there’s cause for joy, as Danish researchers say women with circumcised partners are three times more likely to experience sexual pain than ladies with uncircumcised spouses.

“The uncircumcised penis is much glossier, with a more velvety feel,” says study leader, Paduch. “So, for women who aren’t lubricating well, they may have much less discomfort having sex with a man who is uncircumcised.”

He adds that men who have their foreskin intact require lubricant far less frequently during sex, since the skin of their penis is naturally slicker.