ICYMI: 7 things men should know about women’s nipples
For the average man, a lady’s nipples are one of the areas of a woman’s body that can give men pleasure when touched or sucked.

Yes, this is very true; but men also need to know a few things that happen to a woman’s nipples when it comes to sex, pregnancy, childbirth, etc. So, here you go…

Nipples are not decoration. You already knew that; but you also need to know that a woman’s nipples can be a warning that some serious health problems are there. For instance, as you romance your partner’s breasts, help her check to see that the nipples don’t have what looks like pockets (dimples) around them. If dimples occur around any of the breasts, it could be a warning sign for breast cancer. Tell her to see the doctor.

Nipple discharge is often normal, even when she isn’t pregnant or breastfeeding. Discharge can occur in most women if the nipple is squeezed, says a breast surgeon, Dr. Leah Gendler. But if you’re not squeezing—and especially if the discharge is bloody and/or coming from just one breast—take her to the hospital. The discharge could be the result of a benign growth, a harmless cyst, or breast cancer.

Exercise can injure nipples. If your partner is not doing vigorous activity yet you or her notice that the nipples are red, itchy, scaly, and/or flaking, advise her to see the doctor. This could be a sign of Paget’s disease, a rare form of cancer involving the nipple and areola, Gendler says. She adds: “It could also be eczema, so don’t get anxious. Just see your doctor.”

Nipple pain during breastfeeding is common (and preventable). For men whose wives are nursing babies, know that throbbing, burning, cracked, or sore nipples are all common complaints, particularly in the first few weeks of breastfeeding. But if this pain continues, take her to see the doctor.

Hairy nipples are normal—even in women. Those small bumps around the nipples are normal hair follicles. If your partner has dark hairs growing on her nipples, she is not awitch. Just encourage her to trim it carefully. However, if the hair follicles become painful, grow in size, or are itchy and scaly, let her see the doctor. It could be a sign of infection—or cancer.

Inverted nipples are normal. If your partner has inverted nipples, there is no cause for alarm, says a plastic surgeon, Dr. Paul Lorenc.

Nipples are erogenous zones. Well, scientific research has also confirmed what we already know! According to researchers at Rutgers University, the sensation from nipple stimulation travels to the same pleasure centres of the brain as sensations from the vagina, clitoris, and cervix.