Four hot ways to make your partner orgasm during sex
Compared to women, it is believed that men are able to achieve orgasm during sex as quickly as they get aroused if they are in good health.

Sexologists however note that sometimes, it doesn’t matter how hard a man thrusts during sex or how long he stays on it, a woman’s pleasure is not an exact science.

A doctor of human sexuality, Emily Morse, says instead of focusing on his own pleasure, a man should show how much he yearns for his woman, noting it could be the key to the elusive female orgasm.

“Sex alone is not enough to make her feel desired. If you seem in a hurry to get off — or to get her off — that will only slow things down,” Morse warns.

So, to make your sex partner achieve unforgettable orgasm, follow these hot hot tips…

Build up her passion

Send your girl texts mentioning the parts of your last encounter that most turned you on. “This will jumpstart her sense of anticipation and excitement for the next time you’re together,” Morse says.

“When you let her know how much you want her — and what you plan to do to her — she will be easily aroused.

“And that will make your job a lot easier when the real fun begins,” Morse says.

Heat her up with foreplay

For guys, foreplay is just a prelude — a fun teaser they have to get through before the main event. Not so for women, Morse says. Kissing, touching, caressing, oral and manual stimulation will help her reach climax quickly once you’re inside of her, she says.

If you have the time, Morse recommends at least 20 minutes of foreplay before you move on to sex. But if you want to speed things up, mix in some dirty talk.

“For many women, words are aphrodisiacs — especially when those words are full of affirmations that fill her need to feel sexy,” she says.

Her advice: “Paint a verbal picture of all the things you want to do to her while whispering in her ear. Your warm breath on her ear will send chills down her spine.”

Use your fingers!

Your partner probably requires some extra clitoral stimulation in order to climax.

Use your fingers to gently stimulate her clitoris, and encourage her to touch herself as well, Morse suggests.

Positions like the clitoral alignment technique (a.k.a. “The Cat”) or any configuration where she’s on top can also help ensure the angle of your thrusts is providing plenty of stimulation to her most sensitive areas, Morse adds.

Grab a sex toy

Vibrating penis rings and wand-like devices can help you stimulate her erogenous zones with minimal effort—speeding her toward orgasm.

“Vibrators are fun and easy to use, whether during foreplay or the main course,” Morse says.