14 realities of sexuality
Funmi Akingbade, [email protected]

08096762941

08029593116

The primary reason for this column is to make sex life of married couples a blissful one. So today, I have gathered some facts about the patterns of men and women’s sex drives that researchers and sex therapists have found out. However, couples should bear in mind that individuals may vary from these norms. According to the National Opinion Research Centre, the average couple reports having sex 66 times a year. Couples under age 30 say they have sex an average of 109 times a year. The average number drops to 70 times per year for 40-somethings and 52 times a year for couples in their 50s.

One … Experts say sex drives of men and women differ. They say women’s sexual inclinations are more complicated than men are. While men may be rigid and specific about what they become aroused by, women have less-directed sex drives. Researchers say women are more likely to be more influenced by lots of irrelevant things and factors. Sexual desire in women is extremely sensitive to the environment and context.

Two … Experts say men score higher in libido, while women’s sex drive is more about intimacy. That does not mean that men do not seek intimacy, love, and connection in a relationship, just as women do; most men crave more foreplay, they just view the role of sex differently. Women want to talk first, connect first and then have sex. For men, sex is the connection. Sex is the language men use to express their tender loving vulnerable side.

It is their language of intimacy. Studies after studies illustrate that men’s sex drives are not only stronger than women’s, but also much more straightforward. The sources of women’s libidos, by contrast, are much more difficult to pin down. It is common wisdom that women place more value on emotional connection as a spark of sexual desire.

Three … Men want sex more often than women at the start of a relationship, in the middle of it, and after many years of it. About two-thirds say they masturbate, even though they feel guilty about it, they are forced to masturbate because they are constantly being refused by their wives. Eighty something percentage of married men confessed having cheated on their wives though they say they feel guilty about it but also gave the reason for this – their wives’ deliberate insensitivities to their sexual fantasies, need and lack of innovation and tastelessness’.

Four … Men and women travel slightly different paths to arrive at sexual desire. I hear women say in my office that sexual desire originates much more between their ears than between their legs. For most married women, there is a need for a plan hence the romance, affection and the foreplay. It is more about the anticipation, how you get there; it is the longing that is the fuel for desire. Women’s desire is more contextual, more subjective, more layered on a lattice of emotion. Men, by contrast, don’t need to have nearly as much imagination, since sex is simpler and more straightforward for them.

Five … Most married women are more influenced by the attitudes of their peer group in their decisions about sex. Wives who are not ‘religious’ are likely to have liberal attitudes about sex, they let go and release themselves to the pleasure sex has to offer than the most ‘religious’ ones. Married women with higher education levels were more likely to have performed a wider variety of sexual practices, education made less of a difference with men. Women were more likely to show inconsistency between their expressed values about sexual activities.

Most married women under age 60 think about sex less than once a day.

While the majority of married men under 60 think about sex at least once a day, only about one-quarter of married women report this level of frequency. As men and women age, each fantasise less, but married men still fantasise about twice as often. Men reported more spontaneous sexual arousal and had more frequent and varied fantasies. There are beautifying natural libido enhancers that can help. Women please contact me.

Six … Older married women are more likely to experience orgasm when sex is within the context of a faithful and loving relationship.

Seven … Married women over 50 are more likely to report orgasm when a sexual event takes place in a totally strange environment. Researchers speculate that coming together of long separated spouses may make the novelty of a new experience arousing.

Eight … Most second round sex is safe and healthy, sex therapists say. In addition, it can improve sexual function and relationships by teaching both spouses about their own sexual responses, so they are better able to explain to their partner what feels good to them. However, spouse who becomes too obsessed with third round sex may develop sexual problems or lose interest in sex with their partners.

Nine … Women experience orgasms differently than men, while researchers find it tricky to try to quantify issues like the differing quality of male vs. female orgasms, they do have data on how long it takes men and women to get there. Men, on average, take four minutes from the point of entry until ejaculation; [ideal time should be at least 10 minutes] anything lower than this is considered to be premature ejaculation. If you suffer premature ejaculation, please contact me. Women usually take around 15 to 18 minutes to reach orgasm. That is another difference between the sexes on how often they have an orgasm during sex. Among married men, 75 per cent of them report that they always have an orgasm with their wives while 29 per cent of married women report that they always have an orgasm with their husbands.

Ten … Most married women cannot have an orgasm without direct stimulation of the clitoris so they need clitoral stimulation to reach orgasm. For women who have trouble achieving orgasm, incorporating clitoral stimulation into sexual activity may be all that is necessary. The G-spot is a sexually sensitive part of a woman’s anatomy found in the anterior vaginal wall.

The G-spot is a region found behind the pubic bone that has been credited as the trigger for a vaginal (vs. clitoral) orgasm, and even a catalyst for female ejaculation. However, some experts note that there is no unique anatomical structure where the G-spot is supposed to be located. If the G-spot exists, it is best described as an erogenous zone rather than a part of a woman’s anatomy.

Eleven … A study in the Journal of Sexual Medicine found that the duration before an average married man ejaculates during sexual intercourse from the beginning of vaginal penetration until ejaculation was 7.4 minutes, while the appropriate time should be 12 to 15 minutes. The average penis length is between eight and 10 inches when erected and averages around 4.6 inches when flaccid. A man’s flaccid penis varies in size considerably because of various environmental factors and their effects on the sympathetic nervous system. Cold water and cold air are perhaps the best-known causes of this “shrinkage” phenomenon, but psychological stress can do the same thing. It is advisable to stay off stress and if you have a shrinking penis, kindly contact me.

Twelve … Only 10 per cent of married men reported a preference for oral sex to achieve orgasm, while six per cent of married women reported that preference. Men are more likely to reach orgasm when sex includes vaginal intercourse, but women are more likely to reach orgasm when they engage in a variety of sex acts that include vaginal intercourse or real foreplay sex.

Thirteen … Masturbation can cause injury; frequent or overly vigorous masturbation can irritate the skin of the penis, and men who masturbate can injure their urethras, this has been a major cause of erectile dysfunction for many who masturbate.

Fourteen … Sexual activity can reduce the risk of stroke and heart attack in older couples.

While couples with a history of stroke or heart disease should consult their sex therapists about sexual activity, for the most part, sex is a healthy form of exercise for older people. Researchers who tracked 914 married men for 20 years found that having sex twice or more a week reduced the risk of fatal heart attack by half, compared with those who had sex less than once a month. They also found frequency of sex was not associated with stroke.

Questions and Answers

Is it wrong to give masturbation to my spouse?

I want to know if masturbation is wrong within a married home. We know masturbation is stimulating oneself but in Advance Learners’ Dictionary, it also means giving another person [ which here I believe could mean one’s spouse] sexual pleasure. Does that mean a couple masturbating each other is wrong?

Andrew Hope

Hi, Mr. Andrew, masturbation itself as you mention is giving oneself or another sexual pleasure. It is wrong with lots of negative health effects. It’s also known as solo sex. But when both husband and wife sexually stimulate themselves, this is not wrong although it may be called masturbation or aggravated, exaggerated, heightened, intensified foreplay.

Please help pass this on, it will help someone out there

I just want to use this medium to address some partners in my category to borrow a leaf from me and do the right thing. That was why l wrote to you to please publish my experience for general consumption. My attitude before then was: “We can make love if the children are asleep, the house is clean, and we‘re both freshly showered and in bed in a tidy room, with the lights down low. Did you get your hair cut lately? Please go and shave; my skin is too tender for your beard.” Little did I know that the chance was slim for a man to meet all these conditions at the same time or at all times! Even if we were able to accomplish everything on my “must-do before sex” list, we were much more likely to drop wearily on the couch instead of passionately exploring each other‘s body in each other’s arms.

Something had to give. I couldn‘t keep up with all my requirements and have the energy for intimacy. I needed to simplify my life. I was too rigid for my husband.

When I started reading the articles, a thought occurred to me: what would my husband think if I suddenly let go and pursue lovemaking when things weren‘t perfect, when the dishes were left on the table?

This wasn’t going to be easy. I needed a role model. I chose sex and sexuality column. The column advocates pleasing one’s husband in every way possible. I wondered what the ladies my man frequently visited had that I didn‘t have. Then I realised it was the other way round. These ladies didn‘t have a house they could keep clean or a shopping list or tasks they must perform. They didn’t care a hoot about orderliness. Rather, they provided the passion and pleasure he needed. They inflamed his passion and set the stage for him to come again and again.

Was it possible I could expect less and get more? Less home chores, less complaint, more physical touch, more sparkles on my eyes towards his approaches? Less tasks and more romance? What woman in her right mind would do otherwise? But as an exhausted mother with young children, I wasn‘t in my right mind, so I needed to practise.

I started small. My initial thought was: ‘what if I let the dishes go until morning so we could get to bed earlier and allow a “standing ovation” type of sex to take place as advocated by the columnist?’ I realised that this, rather than having a clean kitchen always, makes him feel much better.

A clean kitchen would never make him feel better than spending the next hour with him, connecting to each other in a way designed by God? No amount of cleanliness would make a kitchen surpass that?

Then I took it a step further, getting used to walking past things that I could not pick up until a messy floor didn‘t bother me again, at least not as much as it used to. l started walking around the house with various ‘oh my God‘ night wears specially designed for him. My husband became really confused when each time he reached down to help me clean he heard me say, ”Honey, thank you, but l’d rather leave the floor that way than not having those sessions with you tonight.” The best part came when I read in one of the articles about oral sex, where the columnist quoted Song of Songs about the lover and the beloved stealing away to a beautiful garden. The lover describes his beloved as a precious myrrh just as she too portrays him as a delightful spice. Not once does he say, ”Your kitchen sparkles like the stars of heaven and is scented with the aroma of a thousand pines.” It is all about the beauty and desire they found in each other.

Reading that book made me realize that I rarely expressed the attraction I had for my husband‘s body. So I put it to practice one day, quoting Song of Songs 5:15, I blurted, ”Your legs are like pillars of marble, my honey!” He was pleasantly shocked and smiled like a little boy who had just received his dream power-bike toy.

To this day, I often tell my husband how attractive he is, specifically admiring the bright colour of his eyes, the strength of his legs, or the handsome turn of his smile. Now, when I start a sentence with ”Honey,” he gives me his full tender attention. There’s a much better chance that a compliment will follow and you can imagine the effect of such compliment.

We‘ve been married for seven years and I have adopted this method for more than a year now. And I‘ve continued pursuing moments in the garden. Sometimes it’s a simple “I‘m naked under these clothes,” which is always true but intriguing when said out loud. At other times, it is something special on his pillow (even if the bed is unmade) or clothing that’s slightly more feminine than what I usually wear.

It’s important that I take him as he is, without requirements. No shower, cologne, valentine flowers. Just him and his “out of Africa” manliness. His brute, organic, and earthy being. Of course, his visits to “disputable places” stopped.

There will always be pressures that sap my energy and time. But I’ve learnt to embrace what is erotic and splendid for the union, putting housework on hold for a while and keeping fire work of sex aglow always.

Please do not print my name or e-mail address.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]