What you admire in a woman’s body reveals your personality!
The part of the body that attracts you in a woman says a lot about your personality — or so sex psychologists want us to believe!

Are you a breast man? Butt man? Or do legs drive you wild? Experts say whether you appreciate a figure-8, cat eyes, or humble breasts can provide hidden clues about your relationship style — and hers.

Where do your eyes go when you check out a beautiful woman? Here’s what your answer means.

Eyes: You’re probably thinking of how her eyes say, ‘I want you.’ But subconsciously, you’re thinking about babies. You are more likely to be attracted to a woman who shares your eye colour, a recent study found. Why? Down the line, eye colour can serve as a simple paternity test, the researchers believe.

You’re probably thinking of how her eyes say, ‘I want you.’ But subconsciously, you’re thinking about babies. You are more likely to be attracted to a woman who shares your eye colour, a recent study found. Why? Down the line, eye colour can serve as a simple paternity test, the researchers believe. Breasts: If you like smaller breasts, you may be more likely to settle down. When men were shown pictures of breasts in five sizes ranging from small to extra-large, researchers found that men who preferred larger breasts also had loose attitudes toward sex and favoured short-term commitment. Researchers believe it’s because while almost all men think bigger breasts are attractive, committed guys are focused on traits that are important in the long run such as personality and parenting skills.

If you like smaller breasts, you may be more likely to settle down. When men were shown pictures of breasts in five sizes ranging from small to extra-large, researchers found that men who preferred larger breasts also had loose attitudes toward sex and favoured short-term commitment. Researchers believe it’s because while almost all men think bigger breasts are attractive, committed guys are focused on traits that are important in the long run such as personality and parenting skills. Curves: When researchers tracked the eye-movements of men looking at photos of women, they found the majority of men looked to the torso first when judging the attractiveness of a woman. The reason: Subconsciously, you’re seeing if she’ll make a good mom. Women who have a slim waist but larger hips are less susceptible to disease and have less difficulty conceiving.

When researchers tracked the eye-movements of men looking at photos of women, they found the majority of men looked to the torso first when judging the attractiveness of a woman. The reason: Subconsciously, you’re seeing if she’ll make a good mom. Women who have a slim waist but larger hips are less susceptible to disease and have less difficulty conceiving. Her body — and only her body: If you’re more concerned with her shape than her face, you’re not thinking about settling down. (Surprise!) But a recent study confirmed when told to consider a woman for a short-term relationship, 51 percent of men checked out her shape, but only 25 percent looked at her body first when told to consider her for a long-term stint.

If you’re more concerned with her shape than her face, you’re not thinking about settling down. (Surprise!) But a recent study confirmed when told to consider a woman for a short-term relationship, 51 percent of men checked out her shape, but only 25 percent looked at her body first when told to consider her for a long-term stint. Nothing: If your buddies are drooling over a woman while you can’t be bothered, that’s a sign you’re happy with your relationship. According to a recent study, men who were shown pictures of an attractive woman and then asked to write an essay about their significant other actually suppressed thoughts about the photos because they were thinking about their woman.

The bottom line: Avoid saying you like one body part specifically — she’ll wonder why you don’t like them all. Instead, go with something general like “Your body turns me on so much.”