Sex in the swimming pool? No-no!
It’s a long weekend that started on Thursday night and extends till Monday night. So, the tendency is to have the ultimate fun — including sex.

And because you and your partner are likely to end up having a picnic near some water bodies such as beach or a swimming pool, you may want to experiment what it feels like to have sex under the water!

However, experts warn that underwater sex comes with some unexpected dangers. So, here are the gross reasons you should never have sex in a hot tub or public swimming pool.

Water is not a good lubricant: You may be wet, but water is absolutely rubbish at lubricating your sex organs. In fact, it tends to wash away any natural lubrication you may have generated during foreplay, making penetration laborious for the man and painful for the woman. This will ultimately lead to friction and injury for both of you.

Increased risk of pregnancy and STIs: Sexologists say being underwater actually increases your risk of sexually transmitted infections and accidental pregnancy, because condoms are unlikely to work in that condition. The lack of natural lubrication means your protection is much more likely to break or slip away, without you even realising it.

Not only can you still get pregnant while having sex underwater, but condoms are more likely to slip off because of the lack of natural lubricant

Pool chemicals can cause infection: Chlorine and other cleaning agents used in pools can disturb the vagina’s balance of good bacteria, leading to thrush, inflammation and bacterial vaginosis. Gynaecologist, Dr. Vanessa Mackay, warns, “If a woman has sex in a pool, there is a chance chemicals could enter the vagina and irritate it.” While any microbes could increase your risk of bladder infection, and being in natural water – such as a pond, river or the sea – could put you at risk of other infections.

Weewee ingestion: According to recent research from the University of Alberta, the average pool contains around 10 litres of other people’s urine.You sure don’t want that reaching your genitals, do you? So, keep your swimwear on, and save sex for the bedroom.

Dangerous: Swimming pools have hard, slippery surfaces – making it reasonably easy to fall over and smack your head.

The bottom line: Sex and water don’t mix. So, it’s best to resist the temptation.