Can you leave your spouse because of mouth odour?
Angel George and Sandra Ogunfiditi

Intimacy between spouses, especially in the modern world, is not complete without the act of whispering sweet words into the hearing of loved ones, complimented with passionate kisses. But if all of a sudden, one of the partners in marriage is afflicted with mouth odour, such intimacy may be strained because people could be very sensitive to smell. If in an event of such infection, Saturday Punch asked Nigerians whether they would on account of that leave their spouses

Our love is forever – Olanike Oguntimehin

I can’t leave my husband because of mouth odour. There is a reason our marital vow was “For better or worse”. Mouth odour is like the least of things that can make me leave him. I know it is curable though, it might be embarrassing at first because I am very sensitive to smell but I can never break my happy home for that reason. I can’t even dump a friend because of mouth odour either.

It’s going to be embarrassing – Oginni Dolapo

We will have to visit various dentists and start with immediate medications even if he has to start walking around with a mouth spray. I am not leaving my husband for such little reason. If it has no cure, he would have to use mouthwash more often than ever. I would make sure he brushes his teeth when he eats anything. It’s going to be an embarrassing moment but I would make him feel loved like never before. When it comes to kissing, he will wash his mouth or take mint. Mouth odour to me is preferable to body odour, I cannot stand that one.

Kissing will be suspended- Adeyi Nike

Since it is not something I married him with, first thing we would do is visit a dentist, a specialist preferably. We have to find out what prompted the sudden smell in the first place. I am 100 per cent sure it’s going to have a remedy even if it means to fly him out of the country for better treatment. I am not leaving the man I love and that loves me for who I am. But if he is reluctant to get help, I would be left with no choice but to leave him. We should be able to go through thin and thick together because, that’s what marriage is all about. It takes a lot of tolerance. In terms of kissing, it will be suspended. For the time being, we will do just pecks and hugs till we arrive at a solution.

Mouth odour is not a disease-Yewande Adenaya

There are worst things than mouth odour for me to leave my husband. We are in a modern age and things that are hard these days have cure except HIV. Mouth odour is not like a sickness or disease without cure, we would work hand in hand to make things right just like the way it was before. We would kiss, romance, do everything couples are meant to do, I would not want him to feel bad and unloved because it would look like I married him for my selfish reason. I might even jokingly bring up a talk about purchasing mouthwash and we could take it up from there. But trust me, I would never leave my husband for such reason.

I love him for who he is- Olatundun Ade

No, I’m not leaving my husband for that reason, maybe for something extreme. There are drugs that can cure mouth odour, as far as I am concerned. I would not let my true love go for something not reasonable. There is a reason I fell in love with him and decided to be with him through every situation, not because he is rich or handsome, I love him for who he is. I believe we can visit the dentist together and I am sure there is something that can correct his breath and my husband is not a stubborn man.

Mouth odour is not HIV- Baderin Mojeed

I cannot leave my wife because of bad breath, maybe for some other reasons but not that. Bad breath can be minimised to the minimal level medically. I love her with all my heart and leaving her would not solve the problem on ground at all and it might even prove to some people that I married her for her beauty which is not true. Why would I leave a woman whom I love and have compassionate feelings for just because of a curable situation when it is not that she has HIV/AIDS or some other form of terminal diseases? Love conquers all and I will stand by her in all situations. We will work towards getting things back to the way they were.

We will seek medical solution-Ilori Ogoluwa

Marriage is sweet; perhaps one of the best things that could happen to humans but the sweet roller coaster doesn’t come without its own challenges. I can’t leave my woman due to bad breath especially when it was not like I married her that way, maybe for other reasons but that should be the least. Although it’s pretty annoying and embarrassing for both of us either I like it or not but for the fact I love her so much, we will find a solution. I cannot because of that leave her. I would rather take her for medical corrections no matter the cost.

I would be a coward to leave her-Kehinde Ilesanmi

I don’t care about any other man but for me, leaving my wife would not solve anything at all. I didn’t marry her with mouth odour. If I met her with it, I would not have even married her because I hate smells. Based on the saying that marriage is for better for worse, till death do us apart, we will be in it together. If I decide to leave her for this minor infection that can be treated, I would be seen as a coward and I am not one either. I believe, since she is my wife, we are married, we have become one and we should be able to stand by each other in good and bad times. Pending the time of the treatment she will undergo therapy for bad smell, we will kiss but I might just have to chew gum or some sort of mint to ease the smell. We might not kiss all the time. We will find a permanent solution to the infection. So, I am not leaving her.

Kissing will be difficult-Sheidi Ankuri

The only part that would be difficult for both of us is when it comes to kissing because I love kissing my wife every time. If I decide to leave her because of a sudden infection, who knows what the next woman I end up marrying will have? It might be something even worst. She would secure an appointment with a doctor and if she wants me to go with her, I will. This will be the best time to prove to her that I love her unconditionally and not for any other reason. Therefore, I am not leaving my wife because of mouth odour, we will fight whatever it is and win together.

Too flimsy an excuse to leave her-Fayemi Demola

As much as I claim I love my woman, I am definitely ready to endure the smell and enjoy her since she was not born with it. At this point, I will not be far from her at all because she has to feel loved and not abandoned. I will make her comfortable though, it is going to be a little bit hard. I will also try my best to pull every string to make sure we eradicate the bad smell in her breath. I am sure the only infection without a cure now should be AIDS, not mouth odour. We will find a way to make her breath normal again. She is my wife, and I will not leave her for such flimsy excuse that can be treated and corrected. Nothing will change with us, we will be the way we were before the mouth odour started.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]