When your marriage is the cause of your depression
Elizabeth Badejo

They say that when you find a great partner that complements you, life can be simply beautiful as you both plan a great life together. Today, hopes and aspirations of many couples of a great marriage have been dashed due to lack of marital contentment or irrational behavioral pattern of their partners which has constantly left the spouse feeling depressed.

Are you in a marriage where your spouse is constantly criticising and nagging your every move or perhaps you are a nagging spouse who is feeling depressed because your partner is constantly aggravating you?

Expectations

Marriage has the capacity to mend broken hearts both past and present and the tendency to prevent further heartbreaks. Marriage gives you the freedom to surrender and become vulnerable with your spouse in exchange for care and protection. Unfortunately, when you realise that your spouse is not the man or woman you thought they were and they do not possess the ability and acumen to guide you, let alone protect you, life can become very frustrating and depressing.

Wrong choice

Marriage is not just about finding the right person but when you truly come to the realisation whether or not you have married the wrong person, marriage can be very depressing too. Perhaps you do not feel intimately for your spouse either due to constant neglects which have left you dejected in your own solitary, life can be regrettable when your hope of a blissful marital life is suddenly destroyed by the person who should be protecting you.

For better and worse

Marriage is meant to be enjoyed but unfortunately today, there are so many men and women living in bondage through emotional pains being inflicted on them by their spouses. If you are enduring the constant emotional abuse from your spouse as well as drowning in a miserable marriage because you have vowed to remain committed to your marriage for better or worse, your situation may eventually lead to depression if you continue to remain in denial.

It’s contagious

There is a tendency for a couple to suffer depression together if the home is a constant battle ground where arguments, nagging and fear take predominance. The victim may eventually become provoked and strike back when the pains induced become agonizing. This can ultimately turn the house into a hostile place for both couple and their children if they have any. Depression is contagious and can leave a spouse feeling disconnected emotionally and this can have a life-threatening effect on one or both couple if help is not sought on time..

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]