If you sometimes have headache after sex, here’s why
Sex is interesting because of its many health benefits.

However, as with every good thing, there are also some downsides to having sex!

Physicians say that at least one out of 100 people who have sex experience sex headaches. And people who are mostly affected are men!

Medically known as coital cephalalgia, sex headaches are head pain that occurs before, during, or after orgasm.

Neurologist/certified headache specialist, Dr. José Biller, says there are two kinds of sex headaches: a dull ache in the head and neck that intensifies as sexual excitement increases; and the second is a sudden, severe, throbbing headache that occurs just before or at the moment of orgasm.

He adds that the condition can also manifest as a headache that occurs after sex; and it can range from mild to extremely painful.

The headache gets worse when the individual stands, and lessens when the person lies down on his/her back, Biller says.

And though experts at the online portal, Mayo Clinic assure that they headaches are usually not dangerous, they quickly warn that sex headaches associated with loss of consciousness, vomiting, stiff neck, other neurological symptoms and severe pain lasting more than 24 hours are more likely to be due to an underlying cause.

Causes

“In a small percentage of cases, these headaches can be due to a serious underlying condition, such as a haemorrhage, brain aneurysm, stroke, cervical artery dissection or subdural hematoma,” Biller says.

Sex specialist, Dr. Carolyn Dean, notes that men are three to four times more likely to experience this painful phenomenon, possibly because men may exert themselves more during sex.

Risk factors/prevention

Low blood sugar may also help lay the foundation for a sex headache. So can a magnesium deficiency, which is linked to headaches in general. Having a history of migraines is also risk factor for sex headaches.

As a prevention, eat magnesium-rich foods like almonds and cashews, dark leafy greens, avocado, and whole grains.

“Aim for low blood pressure, and drink less alcohol,” says Dr. Ehsan Ali.

The bottom line: If you experience sex headaches, see the doctor, even if you think it’s not serious. Reason is, it’s good to make sure that there’s not a serious underlying cause.

“There are treatments a person can take as needed before engaging in sexual activity or daily,” says Ali.

“I know people might get embarrassed by it, but they shouldn’t hesitate to see a doctor — we hear anything and everything,” Ali says.