What has marriage changed about you?
Marriage is the coming together of a man and woman to start a family. Changes are expected because being married comes with new responsibilities, especially as the two parties involved are from different families and backgrounds. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of married Nigerians how marriage has changed them and here are their responses

It changed my mentality

Samuel Chukwuma Iwar

Marriage has helped me to make a transition from ‘self’ mentality to ‘us’ mentality. I am conscious that everything I do will affect my wife in some way. Also, there should be mutual respect. I have counselled many couples who don’t know this because they do not understand that mutual respect earns and breeds trust. No relationship will thrive without trust which makes couples instinctively know over time that their partners will always have their best interest at heart. Mutual respect and trust bring unprecedented growth to a family. For example, unless there is a specific need, I never send money to my mother unless I can send money to my mother-in-law too. This is simply because I have two mothers. My wife now instinctively understands that everything I do as a husband is done with love. This enables us to work in concert, trusting in our hearts that we both want the same thing. Too many couples are building their lives individually while being married because there is a deep-seated mistrust of their partner’s intentions.

It has changed my self-centered way of life

Onuoha Ezinne Stella

Marriage has changed my self-centered way of life. Before marriage, I used to get angry at the slightest provocation but now things have changed; I overlook most of those things now.

I also dropped the habit of living a carefree life. I stopped being a careless talker because before marriage anytime I was angry, I could say anything or everything that came to my mouth. But now, instead of talking immediately, I’ll take a deep breath and then pretend it never happened until my sense of reasoning comes back.

I stopped living a carefree life

Andrew Osadolor Iyamu

Marriage has changed the way I relate with people. I have come to realise that we depend on one another. It has changed my perception about life generally.

I used to live a carefree life; I remember so well how I used to drive out of Lagos every weekend to states where I didn’t know anybody. I would go there, lodge in a hotel and spend my weekend there and then return to Lagos on Sunday or Monday. Anytime I returned on Monday, I would drive straight to the office at great speed to make sure I didn’t get there late. I used to date about four girls at the same time. Honestly it was a crazy life. Also, I would say I am more receptive now because I used to be quite impatient with people. I also dropped what I would call excessive pride, mostly when it comes to the opposite sex. I was concerned about building some sort of security around me so that I would not be ‘used’ by any woman. I guess my elder brother’s experience with women led to that. I would say all those traits are gone now or somehow watered down.

It has changed my sense of commitment

Desola Afod

Marriage has changed my sense of commitment, social life and the way I keep friends. Before I got married, it was just me, myself and I but now, I’m more concerned about my family in all that I do. There are some of my friends that I don’t relate with anymore because of my busy schedule. My social life has also changed due to the fact that I can’t be everywhere anymore.

I had to drop the habit of fighting to win. I don’t focus on being right when we have misunderstandings anymore. I don’t criticise my husband, I am always willing to communicate with him and support him in all that he does.

I have stopped frequenting clubs

Bayo Rafiu Ajayi

I strongly believe that marriage is a union between two people, so it has made me more responsible. I don’t take decisions without my partner’s consent. Also, I used to frequent club houses but I don’t do that anymore. The most beautiful part of marriage is that I see my partner as my friend, which makes my home very sweet.

I’ve been keeping fewer friends

Itunu Jesudolamu

Marriage changed a lot about me. I had to drop some habits like waking up late in the morning, spending hours in front of the mirror and having many friends. Now I choose my words carefully when I’m angry.

I stopped sleeping late so I could wake up early; I had to start timing myself in everything I do, especially when going to a function with my husband. I’ve also had to be conscious of what I wear because I love dresses that are smart and not too long. Some interesting habits that marriage made me form include keeping to time and knowing when to talk to my husband; not when I’m angry or when he is angry.

I used to attend night parties

Ayo Fadimu

Marriage has taught me patience and the spirit of sacrifice.

Some of the habits I dropped after marriage include travelling at will, attending night parties or parties that do not concern me directly.

There are also some situations I had to adjust to. One of them is sewing Aso-ebi, another one is visiting the market to buy things including pepper and ewedu when situation demands. I also had to adjust to taking my children to school.

Finally, my status in our church changed from being a member of the youth group to one of the respected members of the men’s fellowship.

Money management

Folasade Ayodele

Marriage has taught me that I am now spending and saving for two people. I have realised that my life and that of my husband are now intertwined and that I am partly responsible for his well-being; this changed my entire outlook on life.

Also, as regards friendships; married couples tend to gravitate towards other married couples and stay away from single friends.

I also noticed that people now see me as a mature person and take me more seriously.

I stopped keeping female friends

Oluwole Omotola Lawal

On a personal level, since I tied the knot, I have had to forgo keeping several female friends, surreptitiously and (sometimes explicitly) distanced myself from individuals my wife may deem harmful to our marriage. I also significantly reduced my social outings, especially social activities that do not necessarily require couples to attend. I have also had to drop the habit of staying glued to the television for too long as I have learnt to be circumspect and make the necessary adjustments even if a pulsating television programme is airing live, such as a football match. I exercise sensitivity by sacrificing my penchant for entertainment because the value I place on my home is priceless. This is a quality I probably possessed very little of prior to marriage.

Marriage demands both big and small compromises. I used to enjoy eating late in the night before I got married. However because my wife detests the habit due to its likely health complications, I stopped it. Of course, conflicts are bound to happen and sometimes, I do put my foot down on certain matters, but I make sure that being the head of the family does not mean that there should be power imbalance in my favour. Empathy, selflessness, concession, compromise are some of the key qualities I have significantly improved on in my marriage. I show genuine empathy towards issues my wife consider to be of serious importance which on the face of it may be irrelevant to me but given my genuine love for her and my family, her challenges and problems are mine and vice versa.

I stopped being judgmental

Funmi Olayiwola Davids

I have learnt to listen more than talking. I talk a lot and I’m very expressive. I love the relationship that exists between me and my parents, especially my dad, who would make you talk to him about anything and everything; we chat a lot. I look forward to that kind of relationship with my children.

On the contrary, my husband had a different upbringing. Going out was a habit I never found interesting until I got married, and it has helped our bonding as a family. I used to be very judgmental but now empathy comes naturally to me. You’d never find me judging people whose story or situation I haven’t experienced. Even if I have a similar story, I’ve realised that human beings handle situations differently so who am I to tell someone how to handle their own issues?

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the[email protected]