Would you be angry if someone of the opposite sex called your spouse ‘dear’?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

According to the dictionary, the word ‘dear’ can be used in different contexts. Formal or informal; however, there are some situations where people may read meanings to the use of the word especially if it has to do with their spouses. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians if they would be angry if someone referred to their spouse with the word ‘dear’, below are their responses.

It is an intimate word – Austin Ndubisi

Yes, I would be angry if any man refers to my wife as ‘dear’ because that word isn’t meant to be used casually or intimately on anyone you are not intimate with unless he or she is a cheat.

That word ‘dear’ is exclusive to just one person. For example, I refer to my neighbour (a lady) as ‘dear’ and my wife frowns at it then she shouldn’t refer to anyone with that word even on the social media.

I don’t like people referring to my wife with a pet name. My reason is this, calling someone a pet name could be their soft spot, it may lead to infatuation. It is just like me referring to my pastor or brother’s wife with her pet name or ‘dear’; it is totally disrespectful.

There is no dignity whatsoever in saying that. I would definitely read meanings to it if I see a man referring to my wife with a pet name in a text message. It is not proper to call my wife any pet name.

I would be curious – Sherifat Onabanjo

Well, I won’t be angry but I would be curious as to why she is using such endearment on my husband.

My reason is, I rarely use ‘dear’ or any similar endearing words on someone of the opposite sex, let alone someone’s husband except for family members like my male cousins.

However, we are different and the person may not mean any harm. I guess some people sometimes use the word ‘dear’ loosely without any sexual attachment or ill intentions. The context and tone in which it’s being said also matter.

For instance, if a lady says to my husband ‘my dear brother’ which I have heard many say a number of times, I wouldn’t worry about that but when she says ‘okay dear’, then I may wonder. That’s why I said the tone plays a role. Also, I may not even bat an eyelid if it was done as a one-off thing.

I somewhat find it weird and out of place when people refer to other people’s husband/wife by pet names like ‘dear’, ‘sweetheart’, ‘honey’ and the likes. I may initially excuse the behaviour if I understand they were once close and freely used such words.

If I see such words in my husband’s text messages, I won’t assume much or read any meaning to it. I believe in communication a lot, so I would talk to my husband about it and express my displeasure and the reason is because my husband and I sometimes refer to one another as ‘dear’. Most times when I call him on the phone, he usually responds by saying ‘Hello dear’ and vice versa.

So, ‘dear’ is an endearment my husband and I use for one another most times. That’s why I won’t be comfortable with someone using it for him or he using it for someone of the opposite sex (who is not a family member), neither would I do same.

We use the word all the time – Fola Alade

It will not even cross my mind to be upset if someone referred to my wife as ‘dear’. If we look at the etymology of the word, it is an expression used to describe someone or something you have affection for and we use it all the time. Even in our letters (formal, semi-formal) addressed to all.

So, if I can’t get upset at that, why should I now get upset at the fact that it is said by the opposite sex? I honestly don’t consider it a big deal for my wife to be referred to by the word ‘dear’ unless she feels uncomfortable with it.

I would however, feel uncomfortable if I hear other people refer to my wife as ‘baby’, ‘my love’ etc but not ‘dear’ as we use it all the time.

It doesn’t suggest anything – Ifeoma Chris-Oti

No, I won’t be angry at all. Someone has even called me ‘sweetheart’ in the presence of my husband before.

Endearing words like ‘dear’ doesn’t mean or suggest anything. The extreme pet names are ‘sweetheart’, ‘darling’, ‘honey pie’ etc.

I think people read meanings to such words due to insecurity and their partner’s history. Marriage is all about trust and once that trust is broken, other issues will arise.

People need to understand the etymology of words – Kenny Sunday

Most people do not understand the etymology of some words. There was a time I used to react when my wife answered anyone who called her ‘dear’. I also read meanings to her referring to any other person aside from me as ‘dear’ because she also calls me ‘dear’.

I stopped reading meanings to it when I noticed she also called our neighbour’s four-year-old child ‘dear’ without any string attached. I realised she used to refer to other people that way innocently.

I won’t want to see it in his text messages – Aronke Omame

I am not sure I would want anyone to call my husband by a pet name, that’s strictly for me. That’s not to say his friends from school or work cannot call him a nickname that’s generic.

A pet name is special to the two of them and I don’t want that familiarity.

However, if a woman calls my husband ‘dear’ as a generic greeting, one she uses for everyone I won’t have issues with it. I would not like to see it in his text messages because it’s directed at him and no longer general.

I won’t be angry – Hussein Idris

I certainly will not be angry if someone of the opposite sex addressed my wife, as ‘dear’. I have spent a lot of years abroad, so I know and understand that ‘dear’ is one of those English words with multiple meanings.

I have no business reading my wife’s text messages but I know that if a man should text her using the word ‘dear’; she would show me.

Sometimes, I may have to pretend that it is ridiculous to avoid getting into trouble for not being sensitive to her plight.

However, I would not be comfortable if any man describes my wife with endearing words like ‘sexy’. Those words are for my lips only.

I won’t read any meaning to it – Mosiwomeka Mosirimomu

I won’t be angry because I believe there must be a level of familiarity between two people before a term like that can be used.

However, I’m not disputing the fact that strangers use it nowadays to just anyone. If a lady uses the word ‘dear’ towards my husband, I genuinely won’t read any meaning into it Pet names like ‘sweetheart’, ‘honey’ and ‘sugar’ will definitely make me a bit suspicious. So, I won’t want any lady using those names to address my husband.

As long as she is comfortable with it – Judes Okoye

I don’t call married women with endearing words like ‘dear’ but I won’t be angry if someone refers to my wife as ‘dear’ as long as she is comfortable with it.

She had friends when she was till single and schooling and I would technically give her that freedom to socialise with them even after marriage.

However, any man that refers to my wife with endearing tags like ‘sweetheart’, ‘my love’, ‘angel of my heart’, would be trespassing.

I would take caution – Vivian Osuafor

I would not read meanings to it if I see someone refer to my hubby as ‘dear’ in a text message but I’ll take caution.

Many people use ‘dear’ to refer to people, not because they know the meaning but because they feel it should be used for a friend or someone they care about. It might not necessarily mean there is an intimate affair going on between them.

In my opinion, I would not want the opposite sex to call my spouse a pet name such as ‘love’, ‘sweetheart’ because it shows the opposite sex is looking for attention, thereby making my hubby get attracted to her.

In conclusion, ‘dear’ is a word used by so many people including me without any strings attached. So, when the word is used to address my husband, I won’t jump into conclusion or read meanings to it but would be cautious of both parties.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]