What to do when your partner does not support your dreams
Ihuoma Chiedozie

Your partner is meant to be a pillar of support. They are supposed to provide a shoulder to lean on at all times, particularly when you are facing challenges. If you are to have things your way, you would want a partner that will not only support your dreams all the time, but also share them. These dreams could be career goals, a new investment or any other aspiration, which you believe would improve you as a person at the end.

But, sometimes, you will find yourself in a situation where your partner does not support your dreams. In fact, it could be that your partner is actually opposed to your dreams. To be able to overcome your partner’s hostility towards your aspirations, it is important that you understand his or her reasons for doing so.

Pursuing a dream especially when you are already settled in a particular way of life with your partner, would, in most cases, involve change. The risks posed by the imminent change that comes along with going for your dreams could be the reason your partner is putting up a resistance. It could be that the expected change goes against what your partner believes and values or it would alter the way you and your partner have been operating as a family.

Also, the change could reinforce your partner’s own fears concerning money, wealth, worthiness, risk and more. It could also be that the change requires a leap of faith, which the partner is afraid to make.

You should also understand that your partner might be stuck in his life and career and your sudden decision to get unstuck from yours threatens him or her.

However, as a psychologist, Prof Toba Elegbeleye, noted, an ideal couple should be able to effectively support each other’s dreams. If, at the beginning, your partner does not support your dreams and aspirations, all is not lost – you and your partner can still be the ideal couple. You can get your partner to support your dreams.

Communication is key

According to Elegbeleye, communication is very important when you wish to get your partner to support your dreams, especially when a big decision is involved.

He stressed that it is important that the couple sit down together to discuss the issues involved.

“If the wife or husband suddenly wants to leave the job and wish to go into business, the couple have to sit down and analyse issues, look at the pros and cons before the concerned partner proceeds with the venture. It will not be an overnight decision,” Toba observed.

Try selling your dreams to your partner

Discussing the matter effectively with your partner would require ‘selling’ your dreams to him or her. As you chase your dreams, it is important to ‘sell’ to your partner the positive aspects of the expected change that would come along with it. You must have to do this. That is if you would like your partner to come along on the ‘journey’ with you. You can’t expect your partner to read your mind but chances are that if they have a clear sense of your needs and objectives, they will be your biggest cheerleader.

Let’s say you have spent the last few months frustrated with your job, feeling that you are underpaid, undervalued and not doing something you really love. You feel defeated, unconfident and a bit lost. After much thought and a few sleepless nights, you decide it is time to start looking for a new job. This is a big decision that will involve substantial time and energy along with emotional ups-and-downs. Without a doubt, your career transition will impact your relationship whether you want it to or not.

Ultimately, you know that a change – whether it is landing a new job or being your own boss – will have a positive impact on your relationship. Not to mention the extra money in your bank accounts sets you up for a stronger financial future. Sounds like a good deal, right? Now you have to sell the idea to your partner to get them on board. Here are six tips for selling your dreams to your partner.

Get your partner involved in making key decisions

To get your partner involved in your quest to pursue your dream, you should try to create a ‘we-are-in-this-together’ bond rather than a ‘me-versus-you’ divide. This may include discussing when you start job hunting, talking about how much you disclose to friends and family or designating a workspace in your shared abode.

Even if you think you already know how you will address these topics, make sure your partner is aware that you are thinking about them so that they can feel included.

Share your doubts and fears

Taking the leap into entrepreneurship or switching careers can be overwhelming and scary. Allow yourself to be vulnerable and share your uncertainty with your partner. Everyone appreciates feeling needed and chances are he or she will go out of their way to reassure you.

Allow yourself to be cared for – your success doesn’t have to be a source of loneliness and suffering.

Set boundaries

Outline what kind of support you do and don’t want from him or her. Educate your partner about your goals and how they can best support you.

For example, would you prefer they listen without always trying to fix things? Gently explain that when he or she asks how your day went, you are really looking for someone to listen not offer advice. If you are used to spending after work hours together, be clear how you will need to adjust this schedule to create time to work on job applications or hustling on a side-gig, as the case may be.

Make the case for how your partner will benefit

It is possible that your partner does not see any tangible benefits in the dream you are aspiring to actualise. Maybe he or she feels that your previous or current situation is more beneficial to both of you as a couple.

To get your partner on your side, explain the benefits your new job, new career, investment or whatever you wish to achieve would bring to both of you as a couple. Showcase how short term sacrifices will pay off in the end and benefit your relationship.

For example, depending on the situation, you can say something along this line, “When I get this new job, I will finally be in control of my schedule and can leave the office at a reasonable hour. Why don’t we have Wednesday night dinner dates?” This will give your partner the incentive to support you all the more.

Be very clear about what you want to do

You should have enough information on all that is involved in the new move you have embarked on or you intend to embark on. If it is a career change, it is necessary to evaluate the skills, talents and passions involved. This way, you will ensure that your goals and expectations are realistic and attainable.

Your partner can’t get on board with the changes that come along with pursuing your dreams if they are unfounded, untested and lacking in viability. Do your part to investigate appropriately and explore thoroughly what will best fit with your needs, values and talents and bring you the most satisfaction, reward and success in the next chapter of life and work.

Don’t try to ‘convince’

Convincing means you are trying to make your spouse see what you see as truth. It might not ever happen. What is needed instead is for you to communicate powerfully, authoritatively, and masterfully that you cannot continue the way you are and that your current direction is not sustainable for you. Share in a compelling, open-minded and open-hearted way that it’s time for you to make some form of positive change and you would very much like his or her support to do it.

But in the end, remember – you don’t need permission from anyone (even your partner) to take control of your life. Don’t let another person hold you back from doing what is necessary to live, work and be well.

Keep your partner updated on your progress

Once your partner has ‘bought’ what you have ‘sold’, it is only fair to keep them posted on your progress, like you would a business client.

As you embark on a significant life change – whether it’s changing industries, going back to school or launching a start-up – sharing this experience with your partner in a way that gets him or her to buy in and support you is essential to maintaining a healthy relationship that grows over time. How well this works, in many ways, is up to you and how you sell it.

Sources: psychcentral.com, forbes.com

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]