Is it right to tell your spouse about other people’s secret?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

In life, people often confide in their friends or family members to ease them of some emotional burden. Spouses are known to share any form of information with each other. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians if it was right to tell their spouse’s about other people’s secret and below are their responses

It depends on the situation – Juwon Odutayo

When we said our vows, the priest proclaimed us “one” according to the Bible. On that premise lies oneness, unity, being naked and unashamed. It is expected of spouse’s to be open to each other.

That one does not share another’s confidence with the spouse may not mean he or she is not open or transparent. Secrecy has to be considered in context. One size does not fit all when we talk about these things. We will be doing a disservice to marriage if we assume that what works for ‘A’ will work for ‘B’.

For example, a doctor may not share certain intimate information about their patients and would understand. A lawyer may not disclose the nitty-gritty of their clients’ issues. A pastor is also poised to want to keep the confidences of their flock. So, our profession in that wise may inform how much we tell our spouses about others.

Again, the dynamics of our friendships are different. A random lady who shares secrets with another woman’s husband and expect him not to disclose it to his wife is already tearing apart what God has joined together.

The more they indulge in such clandestine conversations, the greater the looming danger beckoning. We must be aware that adultery does not begin in the bedroom, it starts from conversations.

As regards siblings, the questions that could guide us would be, in what ways will this information help my spouse? What are they likely to do with information such as this? Will it make them better or bitter about this family member? I believe every spouse should seek to protect the sanity of their loved one.

When it is not on professional grounds, understand that when you tell a married person anything, consider you have told two people.

Married people should also note that they are not to hide anything from their significant other. If you form that habit, it only grows and becomes a pattern that eventually grows you apart.

It could be used against me – Azubuike Ibe

Telling a spouse about my friend’s secret might make him or her not to trust me because there’s this saying: “show me your friend and I will tell you who you are”.

My spouse could start suspecting me unnecessarily thinking that there is a possibility that I also have a secret I am keeping away from her and this may be used against me.

Also, when it comes to family, this is the worst because blood is thicker than water as people always say. Telling your spouse a family member’s secret will make them think there is a high chance you share similar character traits.

Also, he or she will always use it against you in the course of any argument. There is a very high chance that they would use it to insult you someday.

It could create enmity – Nwokolo Charles

One should discuss only lovely issues with a spouse. Discussing issues about friends, colleagues and family members is very wrong. You may end up creating enmity between her and those relations.

Sometimes you may create a negative impression in his or her mind, which may lead to comparison. Comparison leads to a lot of negative feelings, which may take lots of efforts to erase.

I don’t think it is right – Joe Nyesom

I don’t think it is right to expose any confidential information that is shared between family members and friends to one’s spouse.

In the same vein, it is not right to speak ill of my wife to them. The consequence of telling my spouse about other people’s secret could lead to other complications.

A secret is told in confidence – Chinedu Okerekeocha

I don’t think it is right for one to share a family member’s secret or a friend’s secret. Firstly, you were told or handed that piece of information in confidence as an individual and it should be kept that way.

So, telling anyone including your spouse will violate trust. An adverse consequence is that your spouse can then develop an unhealthy bias against that family member or friend as the case may be.

As the case with rules, there are always exceptions. One should only divulge the secret of a family member or friend only if keeping that secret will result in bringing any form of harm to any of the parties involved, either now or later.

Hypothetically speaking, imagine a man whose younger sister had a love child. The family had done their best to keep it a secret successfully. If the man’s wife and sister have a cordial relationship, the wife, finding out from her husband this bit of history, might change her demeanour towards her sister-in-law unconsciously and this may cause a breakdown in the relationship and even bring about domestic issues if not properly managed.

Maturity is important – Idowu Esema

In an ideal marriage, I don’t think it is wrong to tell your spouse about your friend or family issues or secrets. I believe the two have become one, so a married couple should share the same values and beliefs about most things.

Trust is a vital ingredient in marriage, if you trust your spouse’s maturity; you won’t have issues telling them everything, knowing that they will handle the information well.

Also, I usually say two heads are better than one. Your spouse might have an opinion that could even help the family member or friend. On the other hand, not every marriage is an ideal one, so if you think your spouse is not in tune with you or they are not mature enough to handle such secrets well, then I’ll say don’t tell.

Nothing should be hidden – Patience Okwe

Secrets and lies they say kill quickly especially “a relationship”. If a lie is told once, many things that have been said in the past becomes questionable.

To maintain a relationship built on trust, nothing should be hidden from your spouse. It is always good to be straight by telling him what he should know. A mature mind would definitely understand.

Protect other people’s secret – Caroline Ukpabio

It is very wrong to tell your spouse about other people’s secrets. Even though your spouse is your best and closest friend, he or she may not have the ability to keep such information. You have to protect the person by keeping his or her secret. Failure to do so can lead to trouble that you didn’t plan for.

Also, it is very wrong to tell your husband about your family and siblings secret because he will use it against you someday. The day you try to correct him about a similar thing, he will refer you back to your family and that can be very devastating.

The consequences of telling a spouse about your friend’s secret is: your spouse will never regard him or her any more, he or she will do everything possible to end the friendship. Also, he may spread the information and you will be in a big trouble.

One must be careful – Olajumoke Aderibigbe

My husband is now part of my family because two shall become one. In some cases, telling a spouse other people’s secret is right if they are not garrulous.

However, telling my spouse about my friend’s secret may lead to the end of the friendship because he might not want to find me in their company anymore. He may even feel she could teach or introduce me to such dirty acts.

So, my advice is this, when telling a spouse about other people’s secret, caution should be applied because such information might be used against you.

A secret should remain a secret – Blessing Okejeme

I don’t think telling your spouse about your friend’s dirty secret is a good idea. Remember birds of a feather flock together, so imagine telling your spouse that your friend got pregnant from infidelity. It would automatically affect the level of trust in the marriage.

I can share some things but definitely not everything; a secret should remain a secret.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]