How to cope with difficult neighbours
Tunde Ajaja

No doubt, peaceful coexistence is precious as it makes the world a better place to live in. But candidly, anywhere there is interpersonal interaction, disagreements or conflicts could be inevitable.

One classical example in this context is living with difficult neighbours, which is capable of making one’s life hellish. It is worthy of note that having a difficult neighbour could be an awful experience, whether in a rented apartment or in one’s own house.

While it is more prevalent in the former (tenants), people in the latter (owner-occupier) are not completely immune from disturbances from neighbours, especially those in terrace houses, semi-detached houses, owners of properties sold per flats in a block and even those in detached houses, as long as the adjoining properties belong to somebody else. Thus, beyond high fences, disturbances could still creep in.

Even when neighbours seldom meet, perhaps due to job demands, harmless omissions or deliberate acts by one party could offend the other, sometimes leading to an argument that could degenerate to real conflict.

According to Dr Jacinta Francis, a research associate with the Centre for the Built Environment and Health at The University of Western Australia, the three main causes of disputes between neighbours are unwanted noise, different values and overcrowding, especially in a tenement on high rise buildings.

In this part of the world, however, these causes can be simplified to include using noisy generators, playing loud music at odd hours, always forgetting to lock the gates, dumping refuse in the walkway, not paying utility bills or service charge on time, keeping pets that mess the compound up, not clearing waste bin thereby polluting the premises, flouting cleaning schedule and friendliness with a neighbour’s spouse.

In fact, about two weeks ago, a 36-year-old housewife, Josephine Omolu, appeared before an Ikeja Magistrates’ Court for allegedly pouring hot water on a neighbour for greeting her (Omolu’s) husband. The incident, according to police prosecutor, ASP Clifford Ogu, happened on March 26 at Agbotikuyo area of Agege, Lagos.

The name of the victim who greeted Omolu’s husband was given as Mrs Blessing Christopher, and after she was scalded by her neighbour, she landed in the hospital where she was admitted.

Thus, even when one is a lover of peace, a neighbour could be otherwise. However, there are a few tips on dealing with difficult neighbours:

Don’t prejudge a neighbour in advance:

Perhaps, based on differing values, a family might see nothing wrong with playing loud music on a Saturday afternoon while another might think anyone sensitive should know it’s a good time for siesta. Thus, gradually, the family that is deprived of sleep could begin to see the neighbour(s) as wicked and insensitive. But, according to experts, people may not always know the discomfort their actions cost others until they are told. Therefore, instead of assuming they hurt you deliberately, Francis said people should, in a friendly manner, let such a neighbour know how their actions hurt them. She said, “Some conflicts can be resolved with a simple knock on the door or note in the letterbox, while others may be so extreme as to require legal action or relocation. Generally speaking, it is preferable to approach your neighbour before involving the authorities.”

Be friendly with them:

While it is entirely understandable for people, especially in some neighbourhoods, to mind their business, being friendly – not necessarily being friends – with neighbours has been found to be helpful. According to an article on Men’s Journal, familiarity could go a long way in defusing future problems. It also noted that a great first impression could go a long way to prevent future drama. It said, “The art of being good neigbours begins with a brief introduction to establish trust and initiate a civil relationship. This intro doesn’t have to be immediate, so don’t force it. Kathy Neily, a New York-based therapist who specialises in conflict resolution, recommends a classic customer service smile and solid eye contact. She says you don’t have to feel this generous of spirit, you just have to act like it.”

Mind your approach:

Trying to correct a neighbour who caused us some discomfort could dictate some spontaneity, like going to bang their door. But according to experts, people should always be mindful of their approach so that things do not get worse. Neily said, “Keep it on the ‘I’, as in ‘I’m having a hard time sleeping with the volume of your music’. Starting sentences with ‘you’ feels like you are lecturing them and it puts them on the defensive. Get your point across and don’t talk too much. After you have said yours, stop, listen to what they have to say. Treat the issue as a misunderstanding, not an act of war unless they make you feel it’s one. The more you respectfully listen, the better chance you have of communicating your version of the scenario. Don’t accuse; let them know how the problem bothers you and suggest ways to solve it together. Also, try to end the discussion cordially.” She stressed that it’s safe to assume that a neighbour isn’t necessarily an evil, malicious person who is out to get you, even though it may feel that way. Most people have no idea that what they are doing might be driving you crazy.

Keep records if issues persist:

Some people might see this as an extreme measure, but according to findings, if overtures to a difficult neighbour did not change anything, having documented evidence, with dates and photos (if applicable) could help to know whether it’s truly a serious problem, especially looking at the frequency of the issue and it could be sufficient evidence if there is a need to report to the authorities.

Involve the landlord or caretaker:

If efforts to discuss reservations with a neighbour fail, perhaps one option to explore is to involve the owner of the property or the caretaker. This is not for them to serve as witnesses in case the matter gets to the police or court, but to see if they could intervene. In some instances, such third parties might be able to broker peace between tenants. In a situation where other tenants also suffer same discomfort from the same neighbour, talking to them to approach the tenant might also be an option.

Don’t take threats lightly and don’t hesitate to make a report: On one hand, there are people who resort to threatening to deal with a neighbour for daring to question or challenge them for certain wrong acts on the premises, but instead of dismissing the threat, people are always advised to report such to the police or get a lawyer to file proper complaints with the authorities. This is not only for such persons to be invited for questioning but also to deter them from carrying out such threats and doing anything mischievous. Even though people are often advised to make reporting to the police the last resort, given that it could breed and aggravate enmity, it may also not change much, according to findings, unless there is a case of assault, battery, false imprisonment or even trespass.

Be tactical about it:

Coping with a difficult neighbour could be likened to dealing with difficult people that are hard to avoid. A professor of psychology, Toba Elegbeleye, has therefore advised that people in such situations could choose to ignore the person and their infractions, pacify them or confront them. He said, “We have three popular measures in psychology that we normally use, which are totally ignore, pacify or you use confrontation, but the most valued one is ignore.” He equally pointed out that there are some persons whose acts are difficult to ignore, but he noted that it is best to study such persons, their situation and why they may be doing things that offend others. He added, “There must be a reason for their actions; there are situations, like job loss and financial challenges that make people do what they do, so people should try to know what makes them to act like that and once they can decode that it helps them to deal with it.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]