What would you do if you found out few weeks to your wedding that your partner had a serious health challenge?
In relationships, partners always expect transparency from each other; however, for some reason, a partner may prefer to hide information about their health condition for fear of losing the relationship. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians what they would do if they found out about their partner’s serious health challenge few weeks to their wedding, and here are their responses

I’ll take her for medical tests

Godwin Adeiza Joseph

The best action I will take is to subject the health challenge to series of medical examinations to ascertain the severity of her condition and investigate whether the challenge is life threatening or one that will have a long-term effect on our marriage or affect it in the future.

If the medical findings reveal that the health challenge would affect our unborn children, then I think the consequent action upon this discovery would be to put the wedding aside and get her medical treatment till she is fine. However, if the challenge is not life threatening and can be controlled, and won’t have any effect on my health or the health and well-being of our children, then I’ll go ahead with the wedding.

I’ll postpone the wedding

Chisom Nduaguba

As a health-care professional, there are some challenges that I would be willing to manage. I once dated a guy who had myasthenia gravis. We did break up, but it was for reasons other than his health, but I like to think that if other things added up, we would have got married. But to hide that type of information from me will be a big turn-off for me.

I would be very angry that he kept it from me so I would rather postpone the wedding and revisit the issue with him, have discussions, seek counsel, and so on, before deciding whether to go ahead with the wedding or call it quits. A failed wedding is better than a broken marriage.

It isn’t easy to find a soul mate

Ogbachi David

I will have no option but to accept her like that. True love is the bedrock of every relationship. When I find out about her health condition, it would affect me initially but it would definitely go away.

As long as the foundation of the relationship is based on love and companionship, I don’t think it’s advisable to let go of the relationship. Finding a soul mate is not as easy as some people say it is.

I’ll think of my love for him

Ruth Anointed Omoregbee

Firstly as a beloved child of the almighty God, the owner and master of my very life, I believe he doesn’t create any of his children to be worthless in life. His thoughts towards us are for good and not of evil. His ways aren’t our ways and He is bigger than all our challenges.

If God gives me a partner with any challenge, He will reveal it to me. With this in mind, I would love to know the nature of the ailment. If it is sickle cell, epilepsy, or HIV; I would know only God can cure him. If it is any of this, it can only be God. If I truly love him, I’ll cope.

My advice to other people who find themselves in this situation would be that if they can cope with it, then they should go ahead with it; but if their faith cannot stand it, then it is advisable to quit.

I’ll consider my children

Kingsley Madugba

I will have to be sincere and rational here. I am not getting married just because of me but also because of my children. So, if it is going to affect my children since it’s a “serious health challenge”, then I will forget about the marriage. For example, if my genotype were AS and hers were SS, I would have to review my options.

With that example, it is better to forget about the marriage considering the pain the children will go through if they are born with sickle cell.

I would be angry but also rational; I have to be realistic. I need to be realistic because of the future of my children. I won’t allow my emotions to cloud my judgment.

There would be no wedding

Modupe Onanuga Longe

If I discover the health challenge myself, it means the situation unravelled itself instead of me being told the truth upfront; there certainly would be no wedding.

The reason for this stand is that every relationship whether romantic, business or any other flourishes only when they are founded on trust. Personally, I do not like secrets or people withholding the truth from their partners because it only makes things fester. Lies beget lies.

The truth will always set us free. I would be seriously livid to find out that a fiancé’s medical condition is not what I thought it was but a farce. If we are going into a lifelong union, there should be complete transparency.

People with serious medical conditions can still be loved but they should let others who are committing their lives to them to be fully aware of what they are getting into. It is fraudulent, wickedness and so on not to let a potential spouse know about your true medical status. Give them the option and liberty to choose whether to stay or leave.

Do not hide anything as serious as that if you truly love someone.

I would be grateful

Given Promise

To be in love is to be forgiving; you can’t truly love without the willingness to forgive. I would be grateful if I found out before the wedding. At least, I will now be sure of the person I am saying – yes, I do – to. Before any partner would hide that type of information from you, it means they are afraid to lose you.

If I truly love her, nothing can separate two hearts determined to stay together as one. Loving someone goes beyond the good side; true love is also about standing by someone when there’s nothing to gain.

It depends on if it can be treated

Tomi Osiyemi

It depends on the type of health challenge. If he was aware of it and never disclosed it to me, that will be immediate grounds for cancelling the marriage.

However if he wasn’t aware of it, I’d have to consider several factors. If he can be treated and cured, there’ll be a wedding. If it’s a life threatening or genetic condition, I’m not sure I would be going ahead with the marriage. The reason is that I might be intentionally setting myself up for early widowhood or giving birth to children with that same condition. That would be unwise and unfair. Anything that sows seeds of doubt should be dealt with. It is advisable to give up at that stage. It is better to be safe than to be sorry.

I would be disappointed

Adisa John

I would be very disappointed if I were in the situation because I would expect that she should have informed me on time. However, I believe that there is no problem without a solution.

I’ll take her to doctors for treatment and pray along with her. We will have faith and hope that with God, all things are possible.

I’ll think he is selfish

Oluchi Ibeh

I’ll be curious to know when he got to know about his health challenge. If he got to know while we were still dating, I would be angry at him. I’ll feel he is selfish. I’ll feel he is hiding some other things from me. I can never marry that kind of man. However, if he got to know some weeks to the wedding, I could still marry him. In conclusion, it all depends on the nature of the health challenge. For example, if it is cancer, I can still cope and marry him with the hope that he would get healed. But if it is something like HIV, I don’t think I can cope with that type of challenge. If he has low sperm count, I can still cope with that and we can work around it. The one I can’t even cope with at all is if the man cannot perform well in bed, I can’t even get married to such a person because I might cheat on him in the marriage. If a man can only last in bed for five or ten minutes, I cannot cope.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]