Dealing with depression in youths
Ihuoma Chiedozie

Everyone has times they feel sad and don’t enjoy life. For some people the emotional pain becomes so severe or prolonged that it becomes a problem. This is depression.

Depression and anxiety are among the most common mental health conditions experienced by young people. Research findings suggest that most youths experience depression or anxiety each year.

Often, the symptoms are not recognised and therefore young people don’t get the help they need. Sometimes, the signs are ignored or passed off as ‘just part of growing up’.

For many youths, depression can be a serious issue. This is particularly true for those who are increasingly burdened by the challenges of higher education, the emotional trauma of unstable relationships, work-related stress, dealing with finances, or even feeling isolated after moving away from home.

A renowned psychologist, Professor Oni Fagboungbe, in an interview with Saturday PUNCH, described depression as a “mood, a state of sadness characterised by gloom” which comes with a loss of interest in things that usually make the person happy.

Generally, symptoms of depression include feelings of sadness, emptiness, or hopelessness; a lack of interest or pleasure in activities that you used to enjoy; fluctuations in weight; difficulty with sleeping; low energy no matter the time of day; feeling worthless and guilty; difficulty concentrating and making decisions (whether important or otherwise); feeling irritable and feeling restless; and/or feeling suicidal.

Therefore, it is said that those who are experiencing depression can begin to feel like living and functioning in day-to-day life is increasingly difficult and unmanageable.

Often times, suicide is linked to depression. The depressed individual, having lost all hope and interest in things that are going on around them, readily gives up on life and has no qualms with taking their life.

In most of the reported cases of suicide in the country, the victims are said to have taken their lives because of ‘heartbreak’, owing to breakdown in a relationship, or inability to meet up with the demands of their academic pursuits. In some other cases, the suicide would be blamed on ‘lack of care or affection’ from parents and other loved ones. Some suicides have also been attributed to economic factors.

Interestingly, in most of the cases where young people were reported to have committed suicide, friends and relatives would, afterwards, disclose that the victim had been unhappy in the days leading up to the tragic end. This means that depressed individuals, who are susceptible to suicide, could be helped to avoid taking such step, if those around them had taken the necessary actions when it was discovered that they (victims) were suffering from depression.

While young adults are not always equipped to know when they are dealing with the symptoms of depression, and when they are merely experiencing feelings of sadness, people around them should be able to know that they are depressed, and therefore, make timely interventions so as to help the victim to come out of the condition.

There are steps parents, and other loved ones, can take to help youths deal with depression.

Constant communication, counselling

Fagboungbe noted that the symptoms of depression are quite glaring, a situation which, according to him, should make it easy for parents, and other loved ones, to help a depressed youth.

“Parents and other loved ones should constantly communicate with their children, and counsel them. They should watch out for the symptoms of depression – loss of weight and loss of appetite,” he said.

Compassion, empathy

Depressed youths need the compassion of the people around them, according to Fagboungbe.

Drawing from a personal experience, he said, “About two weeks ago, I was in the class lecturing – I noticed a student looking blank, looking gloomy. I went up to him and asked, ‘What is the problem, young man?’, and he said he had not had any meal. I gave him money to eat. So we started dealing with the depression from there. Depressed youths need the intervention of the people around them.”

Fagboungbe further observed that depressed youths should be made to understand that whatever they are going through at the moment would pass.

“Give them hope, talk them out of it. When a student is failing a particular subject repeatedly, the lecturer should intervene. Students have problems and issues, but, unfortunately, these days everybody is on their own. But society is a social system – what concerns one individual should also concern others,” he said.

Find out why they are depressed

Finding out why a young person is depressed would go a long way in helping the victim to come out of depression.

Fagboungbe identified frustration as the most common cause of depression. He said, “Frustration will usually set in when you can’t achieve a set goal, and from there, the person becomes disinterested in things happening around them. This mood could eventually lead to depression. In this life, everybody has an ambition, everybody has a need, and when this ambition or need cannot be realised or met, there will be frustration.

“Unfortunately, youths rely on artificial sources like alcohol and drugs to cure their depression. But when the effect of the alcohol wears off, you are back to square one, and drugs have a way of taking people to a state of euphoria – making them do what they would ordinarily not do.”

Look for ways to treat the depression

Having found out the cause of the depression, it is necessary to look for the most effective means to help the victim to come out of the condition.

There are many ways to deal with depression – including psychotherapy and medication.

Psychotherapy: Sometimes people are not well equipped to cope with depression alone and need the help of a trained and licensed mental health professional. The benefit of psychotherapy is that it can help individuals identify what issues are contributing to their symptoms of depression and how best to address them. With the aid of psychotherapy, it is very possible for those suffering from depression to reduce their symptoms and also prevent future episodes.

Medication: Some might also need to consider if medication is an option worth exploring, particularly if the person is experiencing symptoms of depression that might need additional assistance. In order to assess if this is the case, a doctor should help treat any medical issue that may be contributing to symptoms of depression. A prescription might be made once the medical provider determines the full details of the situation.

Sometimes, practitioners determine that psychotherapy might not always be enough to deal with severe forms of depression. In these instances, practitioners make the decision to prescribe medication.

Exercise: Experts agree that exercise has countless physical health benefits such as strengthening the heart, lowering blood pressure, reducing body fat, improving strength, and even reducing stress, anxiety, and depression.

For youths, particularly students of tertiary institutions, the benefits can also be mental in that exercise helps them increase and improve brain activity by way of improving memory and thinking skills. Of course, exercise comes in many forms – some of which require great spaces that universities and colleges provide to their students. So youths should be encouraged to take up an intramural sport (basketball, football, or tennis, for example), working out in the gym facilities, or going swimming.

In any case, engaging in low or high impact activity will undoubtedly give youths an emotional boost, improve their mood, and increase their well-being. It can also be a great way to be social – and this practice is also known to positively impact the mood.

Strengthening social connections: When youths move away for school, or even endure tremendous amounts of stress, life can be hard and overwhelming. In these instances, it is important that they are encouraged to put their energy into relationships as well – particularly those that can improve and sustain positive mental health.

Experts agree that isolation often is where depression thrives, and so it is important to reach out to others for support. As a youth, it is very important to stay connected with friends and family.

Proper nutrition: The key to feeling well is often eating well. Sometimes nutritional deficiencies can contribute to symptoms of depression.

Sleep well: Sleep is incredibly important, and when people have a limited amount of sleep, it can affect mood and feelings tremendously. However, as a young person, getting good sleep is not always easy particularly when there are social commitments to attend to, stress that comes from working and studying, or feelings of anxiety from low-school performance. However, it is sleep, often times more than anything that can critically impact the youth’s mental health.

So, experts will often remind those who are prone to depression that they must learn how to prioritise their sleep.

No to drugs and alcohol: Drugs and alcohol have many negative health impacts particularly as they are related to symptoms of depression. In fact, it is often the case that consumption of either alcohol or drugs goes hand-in-hand with depression. While one might think that engaging in either will help achieve relaxation, or living stress free of the burdens of life, researchers have found that this kind of behaviour is often exhibited by young people who feel the symptoms of depression.

This is particularly one sort of social behaviour to be careful of, as the tendency to drink or do drugs in limited instances, can, as a result of depression, quickly escalate to the disease of addiction.

Youths should choose right models

Noting that peer pressure, particularly in an age where technology has distorted reality, plays a major part in the lives of many youths, Fagboungbe advised that young adults should, at all times, be encouraged to choose the right models.

“Youths should choose the right models – exemplary personalities who they can emulate and look up to. These should be people that they know their history, where they are coming from and how they got to where they are at the moment,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]