What is the maximum time a visiting friend should stay with a married couple?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Hosting visitors is inevitable for couples from time to time. However, there are times when some visitors overstay their welcome, but how long a visitor can stay varies from couple to couple? Saturday PUNCH sought the opinions of a cross-section of Nigerians on the maximum time they think a visiting friend should stay with a married couple and here are their responses

It should not be more than three days – Uche Osefon

Any friend that wants to visit my home shouldn’t stay beyond three days. The only way I can allow him stay beyond three days is if his situation is exceptional. When a friend stays for too long with a married couple, they might start disturbing their privacy.

Every couple needs their space for intimacy and bonding; but if a friend is around, it may not be possible to have that. Also, the attention of whoever is close to the visitor may be divided.

A friend’s prolonged stay may also make the couple spend more money on feeding and other things.

Finally, the personality of the visitor may not be compatible with one of the partners and this may breed contempt in the home.

The wife is usually a big factor – Ifeakanwa Joseph

The length of visit depends on the size of the house. For example, it is not right to visit a couple who lives in a room. The visitor would never be comfortable in the house.

If the couple needs to make love, they may not feel free to explore because of the presence of the visitor; the wife would just be angry.

Also, the period of time the visitor stays largely depends on the type of relationship they have with the woman of the house.

Even though women are referred to as the weaker vessels, they determine who stays and goes. They influence the thoughts of the man of the house. And they can make anybody leave so never joke with the strength of a woman. For some families, you can stay as long as you want if you have a good relationship with the ‘chairlady’ of the house.

Two nights should be enough – Shittu Murtala

We are all products of different social backgrounds. In the process of growing up, we become connected to some people whose friendships become a major part of our lives.

Some of these friends are not seen every day, but irrespective of the distance, there are occasions where reunion is destined. In this reunion, we talk of hosting, accommodating, lodging, and being with friends to reignite the old memories of friendship. The consideration of our status in terms of marriage is a big factor in determining the appropriate duration for hosting a friend.

A married person should not invite a friend to stay with them. If it happens, it should be temporary and brief, and not for more than two nights.

The truth is that the most precious friendship a man or woman needs should come from their spouse, especially under their roof. The friend’s stay, when it is prolonged, is capable of creating a new line of rivalry between the couples. There is a tendency that they will start struggling for attention which is not too good for both the marriage and friendship.

The couple needs to agree on it – Uche Solomon

It depends on the nature of the friendship. However, the couple would have to agree on the length of time the visiting friend should stay.

For example, if the visiting friend is not so close to the couple, they should not stay beyond five days.

Also, if it is a mutual friend of the husband and wife, then they can stay with them for about 10 days.

My wife’s opinion matters – Oluwatosin Ibitokun

What determines the length of stay of a friend is the condition that warrants the visit. As for me, accommodating anyone is a form of assistance and I won’t deny anyone such assistance if I have the means because I’ve been there before. I can accommodate anyone for as long as the person is in need. Meanwhile, I won’t accommodate anyone if my wife is against it.

Friends can stay for as long as they want – Azuka Joy Oghogho

As a Christian, for my friend comes to stay with my husband and me, they can stay as long as they want. I can only start having issues if I notice that a visiting female friend is trying to seduce my husband. If it’s a male friend, I’ll be angry if he tries to rape me or steal from us.

It depends on the situation – Iyiola Opeyemi

If they stay in same town with my husband and me, I’ll say a minimum of two hours and a maximum of four hours.

But if they live in another state, then they can pass the night in my home.

However, if the visitor is searching for a job in my state, I can be considerate enough to allow them stay for about three months; if I have many rooms in my house.

There is no maximum time – Wuraola Fapohunda

In my view, I do not think there should be a maximum time. The situation that surrounds the visit would determine how long the visitor would stay.

If the visitor is a male friend, the situation might be different from when the visitor is a female friend. The implication of having a visitor around as a couple is that there is a likelihood that one of the partners may start getting attracted to the visitor due to their physical attributes.

Maximum of four days – Oghayeju Godstestimony

I’m of the opinion that a visiting friend should stay for a maximum of four days because they might need that length of time to do whatever they are there for. I’m a very loud person outside and when I get home, I need my peace and space. Also, I love moving around almost naked in the house and with a visitor around; I won’t be free to do that. My husband and I have a limited time to ourselves before we start having children and we have to enjoy every minute of it.

Partners should agree on it – Theresa Ijeoma Falana

In a situation whereby both partners work and return home in the evening, a visiting friend should know by default that the appropriate time for any form of visitation should be weekends and public holidays. Also, the time frame for any visitation should be in line with both partners’ agreement. What is the purpose of the visitation? All options must be weighed appropriately and accurately.

Issues that could arise from a friend staying with a couple vary. We all know the rules of thumb. Philosophically, human beings change with time so there needs to be proper discipline if one of your friends is staying in your home.

Some of the challenges that may arise include extra cost and different tastes.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]