Seven lies men tell to get sex
• I’m single…and ready to mingle

When a man desperately wants to get in bed with you, he’s going to do everything he can to achieve that purpose, and that includes lying about his relationship status. If he tells you he has a girlfriend, chances are you’ll run in the other direction. One of the common lies men tell is that they’re single when they’re actually in a relationship. Sometimes you have to take his word for it, but if you take the time to do some digging of your own, you might find out something that will kill any feeling you have for him.

• I won’t tell anyone

Sometimes, you like a guy, and want to hook up with him, but somehow, you have doubts about his ability to keep secrets. Now, being the smart man that he is, he’ll want to delete your doubts. He’ll promise you that he’ll keep your romance a secret, but he’ll end up bragging to his friends. Once he blabs to one person, it can quickly become public knowledge, and it won’t stay secret for long.

• You’re amazing/you’re just my type

Ladies, beware when a man constantly showers you with compliments. Of course, they’re genuine sometimes, but often times, they’re nothing but a ploy to get you in bed. If he feels like he has to butter you up before you’ll kiss him or have sex with him, he’ll say whatever he has to say. He’ll tell you you’re beautiful, and that you’re so ‘marryable’ (if there’s such a word). He might even tell you that he loves you. If you’re anywhere near a bed, don’t always take his word for it.

• I earn big

This lie is often used on women who are more attracted to men with higher incomes. If a guy perceives that you’re easily impressed by a fat wallet and fancy things, he’ll use that weakness against you. He’ll lie about his job; how much he earns, and what he does for a living. He’ll tell you that he makes six figures, or that he recently got promoted. He’ll say whatever he can to appear more marketable. There are women who just fall prey to this sort of lie, not because they are attracted to money, but because they met the wrong guy.

• I love children… can’t wait to have mine

If a man’s really desperate, he’ll also lie about something as important as children. I mean, what do women love more than babies? In an attempt to impress you, he’ll make you believe that he loves babies, and that he wants to get married and have kids as soon as possible. That way, you’ll think of him as a potential mate, and won’t mind jumping into bed with him. This is one of the most deceitful ways men use to get into a woman’s pants.

• I just want to cuddle

It’s common knowledge that women like cuddling a lot. They love to feel a man’s body pressed against their own, and most times, when they do it, they do it for the sake of it, and nothing more. However, men rarely cuddle for the sake of it. If a man wants to cuddle with you, chances are he wants to have sex in the process…so ladies, always be wary. It’s possible that he’s romantic, but most times, he’s using cuddling as an excuse to get into your pants.

• Deceitful declaration

“I really, really like you.”

“This could be a real game changer.”

“This is new – I haven’t felt this way about a girl before.”

“I’m really interested to see where this goes.”

“You’re my dream girl – you have all the qualities of the perfect girlfriend.”

“I would never hurt you.”

“I’m not seeing anyone else right now.”

This last point shows that this playboy knows the letter of the unwritten relationship’s law!

When he says he is not seeing anyone else right now, he means, now, as in this minute. Because he is with you. Tomorrow doesn’t count, nor does a long-distance regular hook-up.

He is aware that he must combat a reputation for treating women poorly. His best bet is to convince you early on that you have hooked him up for good.