12 types of sex couples can experiment with (II)
Funmi Akingbade, [email protected]

08096762941

08029593116

Romance-me-now sex

Beautiful fireworks need romance. Romance is like the goose while sex is like the golden egg. You don‘t kill the goose that lays the golden egg. Romance your partner at least once every other day, kiss for ten seconds every morning when you say good-bye and every evening when you say hello.

Hug each other for 20 seconds each day and flirt with each other. Even when there isn‘t time for sex, make sure your mate knows you want to have one with him or her at any available time. Leave a romantic message on your partner‘s phone or e-mail. Daydream about making love to your spouse while doing the laundry, dishes, and while at work or during your free time and so on. Once in a while, while getting ready for bed, light a scented candle and play romantic music on the radio or CD player. This is one of the best firework stimulants. Anytime the opportunity arises, give your spouse a one-minute shoulder rub.

Go as far as renting a romantic movie and watch it together after the children might have retired to their room. One of the secrets of sexual firework is that the fervour, closeness and passion must never be taken for granted because one in three men wishes their wives were better in bed.

Be generous outside of the bedroom with foot rubs, shoulder rubs and loving words. Little signs of affection can build up and put you both in a mood that you weren‘t necessarily expecting. ‘Nothing spoils‘ when husband and wife shower together before bed time, seeing the glistening body of each other is not only sexy, it sparks raw fire. No harm happens to the marriage union when partners play together. Go ahead and play a recreational co-ed team sport, with your partner. It will help keep you both fit, relieve of stress and it will enable you to work as a team. It builds camaraderie and spices things up in the bedroom. Note that while playing together, wives should remember to put on seductive underwear. Most men like white cotton panties, especially the ones that are seductively designed.

Elope with me type of sex

Don‘t forget to break away from the children‘s grip and everyday life chores by eloping once or twice a year and book a night in a hotel as it enables couples to let loose and focus on themselves once in a while. Go ahead, become each other‘s baby and share bedtime stories.

Celebration sex

Take the bull by the horn. You can‘t sit around waiting for someone to make you happy, and that goes for sexual happiness too. When there is a raise in salary, the arrival of a new car into your garage or something new and special happens in the family, you can think up an extraordinary way of celebrating it.

Compliment induced sex

Pay yourselves compliments as women expect and need compliments as much as men do. If he knows that you think he‘s sexy, he‘ll try harder in bed to please you and prove that you‘re right. With one compliment a week, firework flame comes alive.

Priority sex

In all you do as a couple, put sex first. Let it top your day-to -day priority. It‘s harder to find time together when the children are either toddlers or teenagers-they stay up later than you do and most times know what you are up to. So, sometimes you have to put your relationship first before the children; that could mean sneaking into the visitor’s room, the pent house or the master bedroom bathroom to have a short warm sexual escapade together. And it‘s worth it. The fact remains that when these children are long gone, it is what both of you practise now that you will continue to do. So, don‘t ignore your day-to-day activities and ‘hide-and-seek-game.’ If both of you are not sexually naughty now, you may both bore yourselves to death when they are long gone.

The pregnancy type of sex

Wives should not send their husbands on sabbatical leave for nine months on account of pregnancy as such husbands may not come back from the long vacation. Statistics indicate that our husbands frequently think about sex than their wives, and it is of topmost importance to them to sexually. It further says that the media, sexual menace, high immorality in the society is pointing to the fact that husbands want to come home to a ‘pure’ outlet. It does not matter if the wife is pregnant, nursing a baby or has reached menopause.

And for 90 per cent of these men, intense sexual relationship with their wives is more of physical and emotional tranquiliser; it enables them to relax afterwards. They solve life issues better after sex, become calm and relaxed. A sexually fulfilled man is a better giver, better lover and a better care-giver.

Therefore, pregnant and nursing wives should know that the sexual desire of their husbands is basically a matter of hormonal functions and regulations. It is also ‘ever-present’ and they need the physiological release. So, when a wife at any stage of motherhood maintains an enthusiastic sexual interaction in the marriage relationship, their husbands feel more secured and more desirable as he grows older. Such husbands are better fathers, providers and home makers. In all you do, put sex first if you want the firework back!!!

Questions!!! Answers!!!

I am tempted to sleep with other women

I need your help. Before I got saved and married, I slept with numerous women – some of them nearly strangers. Now, I love my wife very much and sex with her is okay. But it’s nothing like the intensity of sex before I got married. I still have strong desires to have sex with other women.

It’s a constant temptation I don‘t want to give in to. What can I do?

Godwin, Yola

Your dilemma highlights one of the most powerful reasons for abstinence from premarital sex and also curbing marital fidelity. The intensity of ‘forbidden’ sex creates an imprint in the mind that’s unfair to the enjoyment of long-term sex.

Marital sex is constrained by the realities of life – like crying kids, bills and last night‘s disagreement. These mundane demands often erode the passion of marriage, and there is not the same energy investment in having an exciting sexual time together again. Dealing with past memories of hot sex is part of managing your entire thought life. Your brain has pathways for memory retrieval of millions of stored images. The more you choose to replay those tapes, the easier and more intensely they come to life. You have a choice not to replay those tapes, but to plug into a different thought. With each temptation, you can exercise your will to say ”No.” Identify those old memories as destructive. Focus on your wife and family. Allowing outside images to interfere with your marital intimacy will destroy you and your loved ones.

I still have this big terrifying apprehension, please help

I am a regular reader of your column. I am having a problem with my fiancée, and I am in a fix about what to do. I started noticing some changes in her early this year when l told her that my manhood is embarrassingly small. Though I reassured her that the doctor I visited told me that there was no problem, that l can be a father, and that the size does not determine the function. But none of this has helped. She started misbehaving and threatened to leave me if I do not go for penis enlargement of any kind. She said she could not imagine herself marrying a man with a small penis (after forcing me to show her how it looks). The point is that I don‘t want to deceive any woman into marriage. I want to be sincere and honest with whosoever I marry. My question is, should I go for penis enlargement and how healthy and realistic is it?

Bala Momodu

Your doctor was right when he said that size has nothing to do with you being a father and you also did well informing your wife-to-be about your situation and challenge. It is quite unfortunate that she was misbehaving. I would sincerely say that if you are sure that that was the reason for her attitude, I think it is better you let her go. A woman that will love you for who you are will definitely come your way. As for the surgical enlargement of the penis, I am yet to see any successful one without a disadvantage in the long run.

Help, my wife sexually harasses my friends

I think my wife loves sex more than life; she craves for sex like one is grasping for breath. It is so bad I cannot leave her with friends because they [my friends complain that my wife harasses them sexually]. Is she a sex addict? Is there a way I can help her? My family is in support I put her away, what do you suggest?

Buriahmu Baba

I suggest you help your wife out of her addiction and not put her away. The term “sexual addiction” is used to describe the behaviour of a person who has an unusually intense sex drive or an obsession with sex. Sex and the thought of sex tend to dominate the sex addict’s thinking, making it difficult to work or engage in healthy marital relationships.

Sex addicts engage in distorted thinking, often rationalising and justifying their behaviour and blaming others for their problems. They generally deny they have a problem and make excuses for their actions.

Sexual addiction also is associated with risk-taking. A person with sexual addiction engages in various forms of sexual activity, despite the potential for negative and/or dangerous consequences. In addition to damaging the addict’s marital relationship and interfering with his or her work and life, a sexual addiction also puts the person at risk of emotional and physical injury.

Behaviours associated with sexual addiction include: compulsive masturbation (self-stimulation), multiple affairs (extra-marital affairs), multiple or anonymous sexual partners and/or one-night stands, consistent use of pornography, phone or computer sex (cybersex), prostitution or use of prostitutes and sexual harassment.

What is the life cycle of a penis?

What is the life cycle of a penis? I am not too comfortable with the rate the functionality of my penis declines by the day. When I hear how vibrant others are, I tend to be very sad. What do you have to say?

Timothy Lokoja

It is no secret that a man’s sexual function declines with age when adequate care, nurture and attention is not given to it. As a man’s testosterone level falls, it takes more to arouse him. Once aroused, he takes longer time to get an erection and to achieve orgasm and, following orgasm, to become aroused again. Age, un-wholesome diet bring marked declines in semen volume and sperm quality. Erectile dysfunction (ED), or impotence, is clearly linked to advancing years; between the ages of 40 and 70, the percentage of potent men falls from 60 per cent to roughly 30 per cent, studies show.

Men also experience a gradual decline in urinary function. Studies show that a man’s urine stream weakens over time, the consequence of weakened bladder muscles and, in many cases, prostate enlargement. That is not all. Recent research confirms what men have long suspected and, in some cases, feared: that the penis itself undergoes significant changes as a man moves from his sexual prime — around age 30 for most guys — into middle age and on to his dotage. There are two major changes. The head of the penis (glans) gradually loses its purplish colour, the result of reduced blood flow. In addition, there is a slow loss of pubic hair. “As testosterone wanes, the penis gradually reverts to its prepubertal, mostly hairless.

Weight gain is common, as men grow older. As fat accumulates on the lower abdomen, the apparent size of the penis changes. “A large pre-pubic fat pad makes the penile shaft look shorter, in some cases; abdominal fat all but buries the penis. One way I motivate my overweight patients is by telling them that they can appear to gain up to an inch in size simply by losing weight.”

In addition to this apparent shrinkage (which is reversible), the penis tends to undergo an actual (and irreversible) reduction in size. The reduction — in both length and thickness — typically is not dramatic but may be noticeable. “If a man’s erect penis is 6 inches long when he is in his 30s, it might be 5 or 5 and a half inches when he reaches his 60s or 70s.

What causes the penis to shrink? At least two mechanisms are involved. One is the slow deposition of fatty substances (plaques) inside tiny arteries in the penis, which impairs blood flow to the organ. This process, known as atherosclerosis, is the same one that contributes to blockages inside the coronary arteries — a leading cause of heart attack. Another mechanism involves the gradual build-up of relatively inelastic collagen (scar tissue) within the stretchy fibrous sheath that surrounds the erection chambers. Erections occur when these chambers are filled with blood. Blockages within the penile arteries — and increasingly inelastic chambers — mean smaller erections; however, the Chinese herbs can do wonders to the shrinking and dysfunction.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]