Should newlyweds live with their parents?
So many reasons, including financial constraint, could make newlyweds to choose to stay in their parents’ apartment. Be that as it may, SATURDAY PUNCH asked some Nigerians whether it was proper for newlyweds to live with their parents

Parents can lend them money to rent an apartment

Kosoko Oyeyemi

No, it is not. A time should even come in a bachelor’s life when he should be tired of living with his parents. Now let’s say he is now married and has not rented an apartment, the best thing his parents could do is to get him and his wife an apartment of their own. The parents can lend them some money to start their own family. If they stayed in their parents’ apartment, they wouldn’t have their privacy and one thing or the other could lead to them being rude to their parents someday. For instance, I married my wife, not her family, so I can’t stay in my father-in-law’s house. Newlyweds shouldn’t live with their parents; it’s not acceptable.

I would encourage my husband to get our own house

Emmy Ekpo

If newlyweds have an accommodation problem, the parents should assist them with money rather than allow the couple to stay with them. I cannot stay in my in-laws’ house because there would not be any privacy. I would have to be extremely careful of whatever I do in the house. I would not be free. Our apartment doesn’t have to be big, but to live with one’s parents is to be inviting trouble.

Newlyweds need privacy

Cherished Pholar

Staying in the same house with one’s parents after marriage could bring about some unpalatable issues, especially if one just got married. The couple are just getting to know each other; they shouldn’t do that in their parents’ apartment. No matter how small, newlyweds should get an apartment of their own. They can build their lives there without any interference.

A man should leave his father’s house

Olamide Enny

I don’t buy that idea at all. Marriage should be the beginning of a new life without anyone restricting you from doing things you ought to do at your own will. You know some parents can be funny. Some will seize the opportunity to control your home. I don’t advise new couples to stay with their parents. As a Christian, the Bible says a man should leave his father’s house.

As long as it’s for a short time

Ademola Omosule

I would say yes and no. If any of the couple’s parents are rich and have many houses, there is nothing wrong in living with them as long as it is for a short period of time. If there is understanding between the two parties, there would be no problem. For example, I have a sister who married in 2011, and she and her husband stayed in the family house before they got an apartment last year. I can’t say all was well in the family house, but they both coped.

The wife would experience hell

Agbo Hannahbella

The wife would experience hell — if the couple are staying in the husband’s parents’ house. From experience, the mother-in-law might start comparing her son’s love towards her and his wife. Before you know it, there would be problems between her and the wife. It’s not advisable to stay with one’s parents after marriage.

It doesn’t make sense

Adebayo Temidayo

I don’t get it. If a man and woman don’t have money to get an apartment yet, why then marry? Why marry when you are broke? I don’t think anyone should borrow money for wedding and end up living in their parents’ house. It doesn’t make any sense. There would be no privacy with my wife if I stayed in my parents’ house. If I had any argument with my wife, my parents would want to interfere and I wouldn’t be able to tell them to stay out of it. This could even lead to breakup.

Newlyweds should get own place

Olaniyan Modupelola

It all depends on the closeness between the husband’s mother and the wife. If they both understand and love each other honestly, they can stay with the parents because I don’t see anything wrong with it. However, it shouldn’t be for a long time. It is advisable that newlyweds get their own place as soon as possible because they need some privacy.

Third party problems would arise

Michael Effiong

It is unacceptable for newlyweds to live with their parents because the couple wouldn’t have enough privacy unlike if they were living alone. As long as they are under the roof of another person, they would never have the freedom they deserve. And privacy is essential for newlyweds as they are just building their home. Courtship doesn’t end after wedding, it just started. So, there is bound to be problems due to third party interference.

It’d bring conflicts

Chioma Christian

It is wrong because it will bring about unnecessary conflict as the newlyweds wouldn’t have enough privacy for themselves. Except for royal families where it is customary to live in the family house even when you are married, it is not proper for a married man to take his wife to his parents’ house or allow the wife to take him to her parents’ house.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]