14-year-old girl forced into sex with 1,000 men
A teenage girl was forced to have sex with more than 1,000 men over two years at a motel in Philadelphia, a lawsuit claims.

The girl was forced into ‘sex slavery’ with men up to four times her age at the Roosevelt Inn in the north-east of the city, her lawyer has claimed.

The teenager, who was just 14 when the alleged abuse began, is suing the motel, its manager and the company that owns it.

The now 17-year-old girl claims she was paid $50 to have sex with several hundred men at the motel after being forced into prostitution in 2013, CBS Philadelphia reported.

The lawsuit claims the alleged ordeal continued into 2014.

The motel is alleged to have provided rooms for human traffickers, but the motel’s 72-year-old manager, Yagna Patel, denied any knowledge of this.

The lawsuit claims the defendants ‘knew or had constructive knowledge’ that the girl was ‘being sexually exploited.’

Traffickers are alleged to have advertised sex with the girl online, before encouraging men to come to the motel after agreeing a price over the phone, Philly.com reported.

When they arrived, a hotel clerk would show them to the girl’s room, according to the lawsuit, which names a staff member, ‘Abdul’, who was supposedly aware of the abuse.

The lawsuit claims that motel workers should have noticed tell-tale signs of abuse, such as the room allegedly regularly containing used condoms.

It also claims that the room ‘frequently smelled of marijuana’ and that men and minors were allegedly seen leaving it.

The girl was allegedly treated ‘aggressively’ and would have seemed scared, court documents claim, adding that she often ‘dressed in a sexually explicit manner.’

“This child was forced into sex slavery, paid to do things with men double, triple, quadruple her age,” her attorney Nadeem Bezar said.

Fellow lawyer Tom Kline added: “You have to be blind deaf and dumb not to know that over 100 men are showing up over a period of a couple days.

“You have a cleaning crew that comes into the room and often times finds boxes or waste cans full of used condoms. This is about as open and obvious as it gets.

“You can’t have a line of johns out the front door and around the room waiting without them knowing the linen service was extraordinary. The front desk would direct the traffic to the room of this child.”

The teenager, who is in therapy, is suing for $50,000 in compensation.

Patel claimed he was unaware of the abuse or the lawsuit and said: “We just rent the room and that’s all we can do.”