How do children learn to lie?
From the days of yore, lying seems to have evolved as an integral part of the human race.

This is because at one time or the other, people find it somewhat inevitable to lie, usually as an escapist strategy. It could be to avoid being punished, chastised, seen as a bad fellow or killed.

As morally bad as it is, coupled with the fact that almost every religion abhors it, unfortunately almost every human may have been guilty of it.

This notwithstanding, it is the desire of every parent to raise children who are honest, detest lies and have penchant to say the truth always, but according to observations, children are as guilty as adults when it comes to lying.

In fact, with the way both the young and old engage in it seamlessly, it could be misconstrued as normal. But, as such a tender age, how do children start lying?

According to some psychologists from the University of California, the little, frequent lies parents tell their children, perhaps to make them behave and shun certain behaviours, could influence the children to also start lying. Such include telling them a strange being might emerge if they don’t go to bed on time. Or instructing children to say they have eaten when they get to a stranger’s house, even when they are hungry. That is where it starts from.

Once they defy that instruction and nothing bad happens, they tend to see lying as a way of having their way. The experts note further that even though parents make it clear to their children that lying is bad, the kids tend to continue because even the parents keep doing it with no obvious immediate repercussion. Thus, they see nothing bad in lying to get out of imminent trouble.

The researchers, Leslie Carver and Chelsea Hays, explained that when children found that they have been lied to, they also want to try it, especially if it would save them from some trouble.

Carver said, “I don’t know that we can say to parents that if you lie to your kid, your kid is going to grow up to be a liar. There’s a lot we don’t know. But it ought to strongly encourage anybody not to lie to children if they’re concerned about those kids growing up and not lying and cheating themselves.”

Also speaking on the issue, a consultant paediatrican, Dr. Rotimi Adesanya, explained that most times, children learn from the adults they live with. Thus, children living with adults who lie or teach them to do so, like ‘tell him I’m not at home when he comes’ tend to raise children that would see nothing wrong with lying.

He said, “If a child has a habit of lying, one has to watch the environment; looking at the people in care of the child and even the school the child attends, because children learn from the adults around them.

“But it can be handled. There is something we call psychotherapy and we have child psychologists who can help them. There are some children whose lies have got out of hands and it has become habitual. Such children should see child psychologists. There are ways to help such a child. The treatment is through reassurance and words of mouth.”

According to that famous quote by Abraham Lincoln, ‘You can fool some of the people all of the time, and all of the people some of the time, but you cannot fool all of the people all of the time,’ which implies that lying may not be the ultimate solution. And for those who don’t want to raise children that would be anything but truthful, lying could be contagious, especially for children. “No man has a good enough memory to be a successful liar,” Lincoln added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]