The vitamin men need to maintain rock-hard erection
Men who suffer from the inability to gain and sustain erection may be suffering from a lack of vitamin D.

Lacking enough of the sunshine vitamin might snuff out the lights on your bedroom game, experts have warned.

New research from Italy suggests that low levels of vitamin D may increase your risk of erectile dysfunction.

When researchers tested 143 men with varying degrees of erectile dysfunction, they found that nearly half of them were deficient in the D vitamin, and only one in five had optimal levels of the nutrient.

What’s more, men with severe cases of erectile dysfunction had vitamin D levels that were about 24 percent lower than those of men with mild forms of the condition.

Insufficient levels of vitamin D may spur the production of free radicals called superoxide ions, according to study author, Dr. Alessandra Barassi, and her research team.

“These free radicals deplete the body’s nitric oxide, a molecule that helps the blood vessels function properly. The result: It makes it hard to get hard,” Barassi warns.

A urologist, Dr. Larry Lipshultz, notes that nitric oxide causes the blood vessels to relax, which increases the blood flow and causes an erection under normal circumstances,

However, without the necessary amounts of nitric acid, the blood vessels may not relax enough to allow for an erection.

If you suffer from erectile dysfunction, ask your doctor to check your vitamin D levels.

And for patients with low levels, the study recommends taking vitamin D supplements to get back to the optimal level of the vitamin in your body.

As for men who are able to get and maintain erection, Barassi says she’s currently studying whether vitamin D supplementation may act as a preventive measure to delay erectile dysfunction.

The bottom line: Get healthy dose of early morning sunshine and also eat foods rich in vitamin D, which include, fatty fish such as tuna, mackerel, and salmon; foods fortified with vitamin D, such as dairy products, orange juice, soy milk, and cereals; beef liver, cheese and egg yolks.