How long do you consider unhealthy for a couple to stay apart?
In marriage, there are diverse situations and circumstances that could lead to distance coming between a husband and wife. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians how long they think is not healthy for couples to be apart and below are their responses:

Over six months – Gbemudu Micheal

It is not ideal for married people to live apart, distance usually leads to infidelity. I am not bragging, but I really love my wife, not just the sex, her presence is important to me and my children. The highest number of months that I can permit for us to be apart is six months.

I have never been in that kind of situation and don’t ever pray for it to happen to me. Distance affects the level of love and affection in a marriage; it can also have a negative effect on the children.

For example, if I am asked to advise a young couple, I would say one month is okay especially if they just got married.

However, for couples who have been married for a number of years, I’ll recommend three to six months.

Maximum one year – Kehinde Olabode

In my opinion, long-distance relationship should be avoided and should only be considered by couples when there are no other options left.

Primarily, marriage was instituted to perform certain functions or meet some needs and these include the emotional, psychological, intellectual and physical aspects.

While it may be argued that staying under the same roof doesn’t guarantee the success of a marriage, long-distance cannot be said to be a blessing, but rather a big challenge that could only be managed by partners with strong commitment to a successful marital relationship.

If a couple must stay apart, it shouldn’t be for more than six months or maximum one year. During this period, conscious and sustained efforts must be made to manage the issues which distance breeds like loneliness, non-frequent sex, lack of emotional and physical support.

Over one month – Callistus Nwabuikwu

I think the length at which couples can live apart depends on certain situations. For over six years, I lived in a different state while my wife and children lived in another. But I make it a point of duty to visit them once every month. I also stay between three to seven days depending on my job schedule.

The most important thing is for communication to be open and as often as possible. Couples should be open to each other and honestly express challenges they face. They should help each other and try to overcome challenges together.

Men should know that raising children alone by women is not easy. There shouldn’t be any negative effects of living apart provided both partners maintain decency and fidelity.

Over a month – Maduabum Francis

If I find myself in this situation, I would recommend that we see each other once every month.

However, it is not advisable for newly married couples to start off in this manner but it can be encouraged in the later years of their marriage when their children are grown up.

Employment opportunities seem to be the very basis of couples living apart, hence I will advise newly married couples to work out modalities that will prevent this from occurring. There are many dangers associated with couples living apart. As the popular saying goes, “out of sight, is out of mind”.

Beyond one or two weeks –Joshua Ninma

Personally, when it comes to distance, I consider anything beyond one or two weeks apart a big challenge to a marriage and family.

There is no formulated pattern to how life should be lived. I want to believe that couples in this situation didn’t plan or envisage living apart when they got married but life happens and they had to adjust.

Some people may have agreed on this style while still courting. Industrialisation is responsible for families living apart. Larger percentage of those living apart if asked would certainly affirm that they never subscribed to it, it’s not their design, and the quest to be productive and meet up with financial obligations could be another reason for distance.

In my opinion, when it comes to distance, anything beyond one or two weeks will pose a challenge to a marriage and family.

Industrialisation also leaves us with serious dangers ranging from marriage collapse to having vagabonds as leaders if not well managed.

Researches have proven that the increasing rate of divorce is traceable to long-distance marriages. Parental discipline is not significant to raise good, God-fearing leaders for the country and the world at large.

Maximum is one year – Oluwatomilayo Dawodu

Ideally, married people should not live apart because marriage is basically for companionship. Every other thing in marriage is secondary. To me, living apart in marriage is not really a good idea.

I won’t subscribe to long distance marriage and if peradventure there’s a need to live apart for some time probably because of work, study, it should be between six months to one year.

The dangers of distance include diminishing love and affection, loneliness, mood swings, difficulty in child-bearing and low appetite for sex.

Beyond three years – Sonia Ezeamobi

Personally, if the period of distance is beyond three years, I won’t like it. In a situation where a couple is done with child bearing, I think two years is okay, that is, if the husband is not within the country.

However, if he is within the country, the wife and children should go and visit him anytime they are on vacation from school. This will be quarterly according to our educational system.

According to the Bible, a short time – Cecilia Agu

The Bible talks about a husband and wife not having total control over their bodies but their spouse and that they can only be apart for a short time that is agreed upon.

I believe that most married couples do not live apart by choice but because they have to make sacrifices for their kids or family.

I do not subscribe to couples living apart but if it is important for them to do so, they must have serious talk about how to cope and come to an agreement.

The effects of couples living apart are infidelity, heartbreak, lack of trust, depression and sometimes divorce.

Over a month – Ogochukwu Opara

I will never subscribe to long distance marriage but if the need arises, I can only tolerate it for one month. If it is a job, the partner with the less paying job has to quit and move to where the other person is.

If it is school, one person will have to make the sacrifice. In fact, I’m from a divorced home and I’m sure if they weren’t living apart, they would have settled their differences.

The dangers of long distance marriages include poor communication; when one person is angry, he or she has opportunity to keep malice with the partner.

Living apart increases the financial expenses of a couple. They get to pay for two houses in two different locations and other logistics. Living apart also breeds jealousy.

It depends on the situation –Benardette Souza

I personally don’t have issues with this especially if the reason for the distance is work-related.

As long as the other spouse isn’t stopping the other party from visiting anytime and hopefully there is enough money to make travels to visit from time to time and of course trust, understanding and effective communication are in place, then it’s fine.

In reality, it can be unavoidable to live apart as a couple sometimes but I don’t advise it for newly married couples where trust hasn’t been tested with time.

The period of time I can accommodate personally is subjective to the circumstance at hand and the priority at that time. Understanding and mutual agreement is key to making long distance marriages work.

As long as there is mutual respect, love and trust, I don’t have a time limit and moreover we are in the era of communication. There are several devices and apps to enhance our communication. Also, a visit from time to time will help couples who find themselves in this situation to bond.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]