How to help your spouse overcome alcohol addiction
Ihuoma Chiedozie

Having a spouse or partner suffering from alcohol addiction can be very traumatic. It can be a very devastating experience for everyone involved, whether it is just you and your addicted spouse or children as the case may be.

Alcoholism can lead to severe emotional and health problems not only for alcoholics but also for their families.

Moreover, it also has severe economic and financial implications – an alcoholic is at risk of losing his job or other means of livelihood due to the effects of the addiction on his or her lifestyle and productivity.

As a result, an alcoholic’s spouse is often forced to bear most of the burden in this situation.

However, all is not lost. There are several ways you can effectively support your spouse to overcome this type of addiction.

Get informed

One of the first things that spouses of alcoholics can do to help them is by attempting to understand what alcoholism is and what mental and physical hardships are experienced by an alcoholic.

Alcoholism is a disease and should not be underestimated. It is characterised by a physical dependence on alcohol. It can be very difficult to remove this dependence especially on one’s own.

Alcohol dependence occurs not when a drinker simply can handle large amounts of alcohol but rather when he or she needs to drink any quantity of alcohol to be able to carry out his or her normal daily functions and responsibilities, or in order to avoid withdrawal.

Alcoholics often become emotionally unstable in addition to their debilitating physical condition. Emotional instability can translate into a number of other problems that affect the alcoholic’s spouse and family. Among these problems are conditions like apathy towards work, family and social exchanges.

Alcoholics often lose sight of their prior goals and values and can only focus on getting more alcohol. This addiction often takes over the majority of an alcoholic’s time and can lead to, among other problems, loss of work, failed career, poor personal fitness and poor personal hygiene.

When the continued dependence on alcohol is combined with the normal stresses of everyday living, the way an alcoholic thinks can become distorted, leading to relationship complications with co-workers, friends, and most of all, the spouse and family.

READ ALSO: Posting picture of my new car on the social media wasn’t for show-off –Pencil, comedian

Beyond understanding what addiction to alcohol is all about, there are ways you can take to help your spouse deal with the problem.

Talk to your spouse

Your first step in dealing with your spouse’s addiction is by having an open, honest conversation about your concerns. You may have expressed the issues you have with his or her behaviour while under the influence dozens of times but it is important to say it again – and again.

According to behavioural psychologist, Professor Oni Fagboungbe, communication is very important in any intervention aimed at helping an alcoholic or any form of addict to overcome his or her addiction.

“Communication is very important,” he said during a chat with our correspondent. “All processes of getting the partner to come out of addiction are done through communication,” he added.

Don’t condemn

While you are obviously displeased with your spouse’s attitude towards alcohol and would obviously be impatient to see a change in their behaviour, you should avoid any form of condemnation while urging them to change. Rather than condemning their attitude, you should frame your feelings as concern for their health.

Speaking further, Fagboungbe pointed out that condemnation can lead to resistance on the part of the addict, a situation which would ultimately be counterproductive.

“Your efforts to help must not go with condemnation,” he advised. “In fact sometimes you have to pretend as if it was not his or her fault to have become addicted in the first place.

“If you resort to condemnation, you may make the person feel that you hate him or her and that will provoke resistance. He will start seeing the person that is trying to change him as the enemy.

“So, you don’t condemn, you communicate, show love. You can even formulate stories of persons who have been into that sort of behaviour but did not come out of it,” he said.

Suggest professional help

Depending on the level of your partner’s addiction to alcohol, you should suggest professional help – medical treatment – to enable them to overcome the condition.

Alcoholics tend to be very stubborn and would not want to believe that they have any problem that requires medical help, so you need to be very persuasive. You have to get enough information about alcohol addiction treatment before bringing up the subject.

Talk to them about the options for treatment and what it could mean if they were to get help. Let them know that you are serious about it. Don’t issue an ultimatum but let them know that if they refuse to even consider getting help, you may need to make some changes in your own life – and potentially your marriage or relationship.

Substitute alcohol with something else

While you may seek professional help for your spouse, on your own part, encourage them to take up a different ‘addiction’ especially when they are making efforts to come out of the problem. But the substitute has to be something that is benign and ‘pleasant’, unlike alcohol.

Shedding further light on this, Fagboungbe said, “Once a person has graduated to addiction level, it means that behaviour, whether taking of alcohol or whatever it is, is already inculcated in his behavioural repertoire.

“It is more than a habit. He craves for it. Doing it gives the person joy. It may be detrimental but there is a sort of compulsion that they have to do it.

“So when a particular behaviour or act has gotten to that level, it is not easy to remove.

“To get them out of the addiction, first of all you will unfreeze the behaviour. There are so many strategies of doing this like removal by substitution.

“The most important thing is you remove that behaviour. If it is an alcoholic, instead of providing alcohol, you provide something else like fruit juice or non-alcoholic wine.

“When you unfreeze, you immediately do a replacement. Something must take the place of that thing you are trying to replace.

“When you do this for some time, you will also sensitise him on the dangers of that addiction you are trying to stop. When you do this for a long time, gradually the person will start breaking away from that behaviour.”

Take care of your self

If safety is an issue due to your spouse’s addiction, put your physical safety and that of your children before everything else. Leave immediately and find somewhere else to stay if violence is an issue or if emotional or verbal abuse is a regular occurrence in your home.

If your spouse agrees to go for treatment, take advantage of family therapy and other therapeutic resources available to you and your children. These resources will help everyone heal and make it possible to work toward being a healthy family again.

Sources: alcohol.org, michaelshouse.com

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]