That relationship deserves a ‘second chance’ of love again
Elizabeth Badejo

[email protected]

07088694961

The Mother’s Day article last week was thought-provoking considering the effects it may have had on many couples in an estranged relationship either with a parent, parents, parent in-law or an ex-partner. As much as you try to move on with your lives together as a couple or family, special celebrations such as these will always cast a shadow from the past into your consciousness, making it difficult to completely turn your backs and say ‘goodbye’ to those, who once truly mattered in your lives.

The beauty of life is the revelation of a second chance to build and restore, with each passing day brings a fresh new start to become the best you can be but how you plan to interpret your second chance is completely your own choice.

The question is; ‘Have you ever thought of the true purpose of a second chance?’ Perhaps you have completely given up on restoring a loss in your life.

The clock cannot be turned back

You are experiencing pain and anger because of the choices you have made while you chose to continue to hurt from the wound that others have inflicted on you and also allow the toxic to run through your veins and torment you.

Although the clock cannot be turned back, nevertheless when you give yourself a second chance, you will free yourself from suffering so that you can begin to gradually drain the toxic out and free your body and soul from the torments of failed relationships.

In the words of Marianne Williamson, ‘We are not held back by the love we didn’t receive in the past, but by the love we are not extending in the present’.

Giving up is a not a sign of weakness

One of the worst mistakes people make when relationships break down is building the courage to make the first move and seek peace. When faced with this situation, you can choose to be pessimistic or optimistic about your purpose in life.

Making restitution is a big sacrifice in the face of adversity and that can mean giving up your own pride to salvage what means the world to you. When you choose to give yourself a second chance, you will begin to look to your future with courage and assurance rather than to your past with sadness and anger again.

Restore your family’s hope

Families provide love, support and share the joys and pains of life’s small and big challenges together. Many families’ lineages are destroyed today because of the acts of selfishness and pride of one person or persons. Often, it only takes a simple act of love and acceptance to salvage the broken pieces.

When you give yourself and family member a second chance to restore broken relationships, you will not only rebuild your lives but also the lives and hopes of your children and generations yet unborn.

Let love overlook the mistakes

The two most important element of a good life is peace and love and both are without equal. Age does not determine maturity as maturity is completely dependent on experiences of life.

Sometimes when a parent or spouse fails in their commitment, they may be oblivious to what is expected of them, therefore allow love to overlook the mistakes that others commit.

Goodluck!

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]