What does an unhealthy relationship mean to you?
As they say, one man’s meat is another man’s poison. Unhealthy relationship may mean different things to different people, and this could be influenced by their family or religious background. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians what an unhealthy relationship means to them and here are their responses

A shameful relationship – Omodara Blessing Kalifat

An unhealthy relationship is characterised by lack of understanding, trust, respect and poor communication. It is a shameful type of relationship; the devil had a similar relationship with mankind in the Garden of Eden as explained in the Bible, in Genesis 3:8. It says, “That evening they heard the Lord God walking in the garden, and they hid from him among the trees.” They hid themselves because their relationship with the devil had changed their identity from God, and they were not proud of that relationship.

For example, a married pastor can never be proud of any secret affair he is having because it is not healthy for his life, family and ministry.

Unhealthy relationship in a contextual dimension cuts across a relationship one inexplicably finds oneself in and is not pleased with. A lot of people are in unhappy marriages because they don’t have any say and are always walking on egg shells in their home. Even though the woman may look comfortable because she rides luxury cars, it doesn’t mean that she is happy. Some people are slaves in their homes and they cannot do anything about it.

Manipulation and dishonesty Nzekwu Ikechukwu –

In my opinion, an unhealthy relationship is characterised by manipulation and dishonesty. For example, when an individual is unavailable on special days and claims they are too busy but it is really because they have the intention to be with someone else, that is dishonesty. It is also unfair when an individual is fond of lying in a relationship to extort money from their partner. There are also some people who don’t call their partners regularly; they only call when they need something from them.

Anxiety, lack of peace will make a relationship unhealthy

Emuzor Kendra

An unhealthy relationship is one where both parties are always anxious in a bid to try to impress each other. Trust is also another major factor; any relationship that is devoid of trust is not healthy at all. If there is no free flow of communication in a relationship, it means the relationship is boring and that is something to be worried about.

Lack of communication and intimacy – Daud Sheriff

When both parties in a relationship can’t find common grounds because one person always feels too important, then the life-span of the relationship is under threat.

Another major factor has to do with intimacy- if the level of intimacy used to be strong, and later the woman starts giving excuses like: “I am too tired, not now, not today; it becomes irritating.”

Furthermore, when an individual spends more time with other people, work, gadgets like phones, computer or even social media than with the significant other, it could lead to the death of that relationship. In conclusion, when they start having lustful desires for the opposite sex, and hardly appreciate their partner, it could affect the other party negatively. All these signs indicate that the relationship is unhealthy.

A toxic relationship is unhealthy – Yetunde Bakare

An unhealthy relationship is a toxic or one-sided relationship that lacks genuine love and sincerity. It’s a total waste of time and emotions and this could affect anyone psychologically. It’s like gambling on someone’s trust and taking advantage of their feelings. If you’re still hiding things from your partner then it’s definitely not healthy. Some people will keep saying they will change with time but it doesn’t work in most cases. It’s not until there’s domestic violence or nagging that a relationship can be considered as unhealthy, some people are good at torturing their partners emotionally. A relationship where you don’t play like friends and advise each other like brother and sister is not worth the stress.

Also, a relationship where there’s no peace of mind and both parties can comfortably sleep after keeping malice for days due to a misunderstanding is unhealthy.

For example, some men will just lead a lady on without having genuine intentions for them. A perfect example is when a guy dated a lady for three years and the only way she found out he already had a child was when the little girl celebrated her first year birthday. This means he had been in a serious relationship with another lady and they had a daughter while he was busy exploiting her innocence and leading her on.

Love for money or material things – Orioye Yusuf

When an individual loves money or material things in a relationship, it is a negative sign. There is no doubt that money is an integral part of any relationship but people need to understand that when you love someone because of money or material possessions, that relationship is bound to crash someday, especially when the money is no longer there. Money comes and goes but true love can stand the test of time. If my partner shows too much lust for money and material things, I won’t take it lightly. It’s a red flag and it should be addressed immediately.

Comparison, quarrels and lack of respect – Rebbeca Sunday Kpee

In my opinion, any relationship characterised by lack of love and respect is an unhealthy one. When individuals are in a relationship and they are always quarrelling, it is a sign that the relationship is headed nowhere. Furthermore, if two lovers don’t have mutual respect for each other, it shows how shallow the love they claim to have for each other is. In conclusion, any man who is fond of comparing his wife or partner to other women outside is not satisfied with what he has; and it’s an obvious sign of a sick or an unhealthy relationship.

Lack of loyalty – Funsho Jimoh Hashim

In my opinion, any relationship that lacks mutual love, trust and loyalty is unhealthy. Other signs of an unhealthy relationship include misunderstanding and mismanagement of time and resources.

Lack of motivation -Anastaecia Ajah

Any relationship that doesn’t motivate me to be better, mentally, physically and so on is unhealthy. If I am in a relationship with someone that constantly nags or reminds me of my past, then that relationship is a bad one. If I am in a relationship and the man doesn’t tell me about new opportunities in my field or share ideas with me, then that relationship has a stunted growth. In conclusion, an unhealthy relationship is one that robs an individual of their peace of mind and happiness.

Selfishness will make a relationship unhealthy – Okoli Nnabuike

An unhealthy relationship is one that takes away an individual‘s peace of mind. Signs that a relationship is unhealthy include when there is selfishness. There are people who are naturally selfish; all they want is for things to go their way. So no matter how diplomatic or explanatory their partner is, they would never compromise to make their partner happy.

Being in love with such people could be frustrating because you will always have to defend yourself with no guarantee of them understanding you at any point because it’s always about them.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]