What boundaries would you not expect your in-laws to cross in your home?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Your rapport with your in-laws can have lasting effects on your marriage, so it is usually important to understand how to deal with your spouse’s relations. However, there are boundaries that some people will not want their in-laws to cross whether they adore them or barely tolerate them. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians what boundaries they wouldn’t expect their in-laws to cross in their marriage and here are their responses

Talking down on my spouse – Ogberaha Patience

As an African woman, I know in-laws play a great role in marriages but for the sake of peace, I won’t always allow them to have a say in decision-making in my home. I won’t allow my in-laws talk down on my spouse whether he is wrong or not. As a wife, I determine the value that should be placed on my spouse. Also, when partners disagree, it is wrong for either of them to report the other to their in-laws. My children and my husband are my business but if as in-laws, they notice any problem; there is room for advice and corrections.

Imposing their decisions on me – Amarachi Chiagoziem

In-laws are usually interested in what happens in a marriage because they are one of the stakeholders but there is a need to put them in their place by setting reasonable and realistic boundaries which should be agreed on by the husband and wife. There is a need for them to agree on these boundaries because if they don’t do that, it could lead to a nasty situation. Honestly, setting boundaries for one’s in-laws is relative and depends on the existing perception and realities on the ground. They say: ‘Different strokes for different folks.’ Personally, I would not like my in-laws to interfere in any form of decision-making in my family; they can advise us if their advice is sought, but they are not in any position to impose their decisions on me.

Also, I will not allow them to invade my privacy. I prefer meeting them on a neutral ground for sustainability and a healthy relationship. In all, It is not only about setting boundaries but enforcing them too.

My home should be free from interference – Emike Osumah

In dealing with in-laws, we must be conscious of the difference between walls and boundaries. Walls shut people out while boundaries create sanity and safety in our lives. Walls say ‘I don’t go for any family functions, I don’t call my in-laws, and I don’t give any financial assistance to them,’ but boundaries say, ‘I’m open to being of help and being there but not at the expense of the core values that make my home run seamlessly, safely and sanely.’ While ensuring that I am not creating walls, I will have to insist on playing by the rules that work for me and my husband. I will not be pressurised to have a certain number of children because my in-laws insist that it has to be so, especially when the matter is not out of concern for our safety or any probable complications. I will not be pressurised into adopting a long-distance marriage model because my in-laws think that it is financially trendy regardless of the long-term effects it will have on my home.

When a man marries, he leaves his father and mother to cleave to his wife. Leaving them means being able to stand on his own, deciding on what direction to steer his home without external and undue influence from his family. Where there is no leaving, there will be no true cleaving which characterises a home that will stand the test of time as a united team.

Visiting unannounced- Adebimpe Aregbesola

Personally, I don’t like in-laws interfering in anything that concerns our home unless we ask for their opinion. I have discovered that with time, in-laws, especially female ones, if they happen to be older than the husband, tend to manipulate them. For example, they want to come to your house but they won’t inform you that they are coming over or they do it really late and they expect the wife to leave everything she is doing to take care of them. When the wife sees this as their pattern of behaviour and speaks to the husband about it, she becomes a bad person.

I consider the scenario I have described as a no-no. In-laws should stay in their marriage or home and mind their business. Let the two people in the marriage enjoy their marriage.

I won’t tolerate imposition by in-laws – Nneka Chiekwe

My in-laws are also my family. Although I would be open to their constructive opinions and ideas on issues, I would also not tolerate any imposition because at the end of the day, my spouse and I are the only two people whose opinions truly matter. If they have not been invited to express their views on any issue at all regarding our marriage, I won’t expect them to interfere.

My wife and I should have the final say on our children’s welfare – Andrew Akinmoladun

I am an advocate of an inclusive family since I am from a polygamous family. But one thing I will not allow my in-laws to do in my house is to be part of the decision-making process irrespective of how little or big the issue is and it could be economic, social or political. I have no problem with in-laws helping with raising our kids, which is common here; but when it comes to making decisions about our children’s welfare, my wife and I always want to have the final say.

My bedroom is out of bounds to in-laws – Enoch Dagba

In-laws are important in marriages, especially here in Africa. However, their influence on marriages is often detrimental to the marriage rather than to be helpful. Personally, my restrictions will include the following: the extent of their interference in my marital crisis must be clear; they should never get involved until my wife and I permit them to. I see some in-laws taking the children of their relations to their own church, I can’t accept such. Finally, my bedroom is out of bounds to my in-laws except in a situation where my mother-in-law has to nurse our new child.

In-laws should not be involved in sensitive issues – Bolatito Adebola

The answer to this question is very relative and personal to a very large extent. But, personally, before my in-laws can dabble in my matrimonial affairs, I must have afforded them some leverage to be able to do so. As a man and head of the family, there is an extent to which my in-laws can control my home, either overtly or covertly. It is the kind of relationship that exists between you and your in-laws that will determine how they meddle in your marriage. Some in-laws, although unconsciously, usually see the man’s warmness to them as an opportunity to interfere in their daughter’s marital affairs, with the genuine intention to build a good home for their daughter, which they often take beyond their boundaries. Therefore, if the boundaries have been made clear to them through my wife, they will never venture to go beyond them. And if they try to go beyond the boundaries set for them, it behoves the husband to check that through their daughter, who might unfortunately be enjoying the ride. The best option is to keep them at arm’s length on sensitive issues without necessarily offending their sensibilities.

In-laws should not barge in on my house – Tony Amenaghawon

Boundaries vary though but one of the boundaries that I will set for my in-laws is informing me before they come on a visit. With the advent of modern ways of communication, it is pertinent that we utilise them at all times. If my in-laws want to visit us, they need to inform me by calling on the phone, sending SMS, or using any viable form of social media prior to the time of their arrival. No one should barge in on my house all in the name of being “family” without informing me. I might have my day planned out and would not need an interference from anyone.

They should not interfere in our misunderstandings – Chris Ilozue

My in-laws are part of my family, but as a responsible man who wants a blissful home with my wife and God. My in-laws are free to visit me and rejoice with us when the need arises. However, when it comes to misunderstandings between me and my wife, I’ll prefer to deal with them by myself without any form of interference from them. I am married to my wife and not my in-laws; my marriage is private and not a public affair.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]