Can you truly love someone you are meeting for the first time?
‘Love at first sight’ is a common expression. Some people have said that they develop an instant and ultimately long-lasting romantic attraction for a stranger upon seeing them for the first time. Some people believe this is possible, while others doubt such. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians if they could truly fall in love at first sight and here are their responses

The love will not be genuine – Akinfolarin Feyisola

No, I can’t genuinely love someone I am just meeting for the first time.

Love at first sight, to me, is nothing but infatuation. It is not real. There is more to love than physical appearance. In my opinion, the decision to love someone will be based on their character traits and attitude. It is impossible to determine an individual’s true character after meeting them for the first time.

Loving someone has to do with knowing them – Aminu Aminat Abiodun

Loving someone has to do with knowing the person. So if you don’t know a man very well; it’s going to be hard to truly love the person. Love at first sight doesn’t work like that; at least not in this part of the country, I don’t believe in love at first sight.

There was a time I felt something strong for someone after meeting him for the first time; it felt like I had known him forever. To me, true love means being able to know someone as much as they know you; it is something that is constantly expressed in thoughts and words. It can’t be underestimated or overestimated.

I can fall in love at first sight – Adeniyi Adebayo

Absolutely, I can fall in love like that. I only need some minutes to assess her psychologically; to determine if my infatuation can move to the next level. Serious-minded men have a picture of their dream partner in their mind; we go around looking for specific characteristics in the woman we want to spend the rest of our lives with, or the one that suits our ‘calibre’. When we eventually meet the woman who seems to portray the exact personality and attributes we want, we start developing feelings, as if we have known her for years. For instance, I had always loved my partner, even before I got the opportunity to say hello to her. She was the woman of my dreams. The minute I saw her, I knew she was the one. I believe in love at first sight.

My relationship is a product of love at first sight. The very first time I gazed into my partner’s eyes, I felt something strong, I saw myself in her. The connection was so strong.

However in some cases, an individual may end up being wrong about the woman’s true personality, especially if she was pretending all along.

Love is deeper than that – Adaobi Isreal

No, I don’t think it’s possible to love someone the first time you are seeing them because I know love is way deeper than that. It’s possible to be attracted and infatuated with a person the first time you are seeing them but it’s not enough to trust that person well enough to share your hopes, dreams, fears, and insecurities. These are the factors that determine if true love actually exists between two people. All these things cannot happen in a day. In fact, a year is not enough to genuinely decide if you truly love someone. I’m no expert, but truly loving a person for me means going through the good, the bad and ugly with them and still be unshaken by the experience. It is not just about being lovers but friends and partners who are on the same page and are willing to reach the meaningful end together, no matter what.

Love is more than an emotion – Emmanuel Abraye

Love is not just an emotion, it is a decision and it’s intentional. Love at first sight assumes some kind of emotional helplessness and it is fuelled by transient feelings. An individual can feel something for someone they are meeting for the first time; but it may not be love. Interestingly, when I first met my wife, I knew I would marry her but I didn’t woo her until four years later to avoid being distracted in school. I waited till my penultimate year before asking her to marry me. In my opinion, loving someone at first sight is not possible. The ingredients of love are patience, care, kindness and trust; these ingredients cannot be present at first sight.

Love is not a planned action – Blessing Ogar

It depends on the individual involved; I can truly love someone I am meeting for the first time. To me, love is innocent and beautiful and I don’t think love is a planned action; it just happens.

I have actually loved someone after meeting him for the first time and it was the best decision my heart made. However, I know it may not work out the same way for everybody because they may realise later that it was a serious mistake. In my opinion, true love is about caring, supporting and looking out for each other. It doesn’t necessarily only have to with financial support; it also has a lot to do with spiritual and career growth.

It’s possible to fall in love at first sight – Dozie Innocent

Yes, it is very possible to love someone at first sight. It will eventually grow with time. True love is characterised by some indices like care, trust, tolerance and acceptance. I once loved a woman I had just met for the first time. Initially, I thought it was infatuation but I was wrong; it was true love.

I don’t believe in it – Bunmi Akinnaanu

I can’t love someone I’m meeting for the first time, I don’t believe in love at first sight. I have never loved someone after meeting with them for the first time. True love has to do with sincerity, loyalty and respect.

True love involves many things – Ayodeji Tosin

It is not possible for me to love someone at first sight. I don’t believe in falling in love at first sight at all. I have never loved someone immediately after meeting them for the first time. In my opinion, true love has to do with patience, tolerance, faithfulness, perseverance and consideration.

It has happened to me before – Desire Dokubo

Yes, I can truly love someone I am meeting for the first time. For example in 2017, I attended a music concert in Port Harcourt, Rivers State and as soon as I stepped into the hall, I saw a particular guy who was busy on the stage; I loved him the moment our eyes met. Unfortunately for me and fortunately for him, he was engaged to be married in a few weeks time.

Also, it happened during my modelling days when I attended a particular audition for a musical video shoot, immediately the artiste saw me, she asked the manager to select me for the video shoot. In fact, she even made me her personal assistant because she said she loved me at first sight. I have loved someone at first sight before but it didn’t end well. He still has a good place in my heart. When I met him, I didn’t even believe in love at first sight but he changed my mindset as regards that. In this person, I knew the true meaning of the word ‘obsession’. Unfortunately, we didn’t end up getting married, I almost ran mad when I heard he was about to get married to another woman.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]