Would you prefer if your partner confessed to cheating on you or would you rather not know about it?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Infidelity can destroy the trust couples have worked carefully to build in marriage. And if someone has confessed to cheating on their partner, trust can take time to develop in that relationship, but when one partner finds out the other has cheated, it can come crashing down in an instant. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians if they would prefer their partner to tell them about their infidelity or if they would prefer not to know about it

I won’t want to know about it – Abiola Osikoya

I won’t want to know about it at all because it will affect the relationship negatively. I can’t even imagine my husband with another person; it would break my heart and affect my trust in him.

I may start nursing some negative thoughts, like the possibility of him infecting me with sexually transmitted diseases.

Another reason why I won’t want to know about it is because even after he has asked for forgiveness, I may still think he is cheating on me.

I would rather not know that he’s cheating on me; knowing this may ruin our marriage.

I’ll prefer he tells me – Joy Godfrey

In a situation like this, I’ll prefer he tells me how and why he cheated on me. This is because I would not be happy if I heard about his sexual escapades from a third party. Honestly, it will hurt me more if I find out about his infidelity on my own. If he confesses, I will forgive him easily because in any relationship or marriage, forgiveness is important as no one is perfect.

I’d be divided between two decisions – Nkeiru Anukem

Really it’s a two-way issue; I may not want to know about it or the person because it will really hurt to see her from time to time. And in the course of the affair she had with my husband; he might have shared some details about me with the lady. So I may not want to know about it.

On the other hand, I may want to know the lady so I can actually assess the lady in question to find out what could have attracted my husband to her.

If he confesses, I’ll forgive him – Oluwatoyin Oluwasayo

Honestly, I don’t spy on my man, but if he cheated on me and he was bold enough to tell me, I would naturally get mad at him but I’d apply caution. I would appreciate the fact that he told me because if he didn’t; there is no way I would know.

Men are promiscuous by nature and there is nothing anyone can do about it. I will forgive him without hesitating because of his sincerity, and if it was his first time. However, if after his confession he doesn’t change, then we might have a problem.

Yes, I’ll prefer he confesses – Oyelowo Oluwafumike

Yes, I’ll definitely prefer my partner confesses to cheating than keeping it a secret. If he confessed, then we could talk about it and I would ask him why he did it. I would want to know if there are some things I have been doing that he is not happy with. Communication is very important in this situation; I would want him to tell me what he wants me to improve on. If he doesn’t confess to cheating, it may be a sign that my marriage is in danger because the other lady may start developing strong feelings for him. Another issue is that she may even infect him with a disease.

I’ll prefer not to know about it – Olumide Ogunkua

I will prefer not to know about it. She should keep it to herself and desist from such acts. What the eyes can’t see can’t irritate the mind. Any man who monitors his wife’s movements is preparing for his untimely death. Can you monitor a promiscuous woman? Absolutely not! Men should trust their wives enough to shut their minds off such things.

It is better if she tells me – Oluwole Lawal

Cheating is very wrong in marriage and keeping such a secret from me is a breach of trust. The whole objective of us being together would have been destroyed by keeping such information from me. I would want to know why she cheated on me; I will be very curious. For example, I would want to know if it has to do with the level of our intimacy or my poor financial status.

I’ll prefer she keeps it to herself – Adenitan Akinola

I will prefer she keeps such information to herself. One fundamental question that needs to be answered here is this: what value will such information add to me or to our union if my partner? None! The confession will apparently affect my psychological perception of her and subsequent disposition towards her. Even I’m able to forgive her because of her confession; I won’t be able to forget about it easily. Considering the socio-cultural peculiarity of the Nigerian/African society, it’s believed that a man could have more than one wife and that might not be seen as cheating but if it’s done by a woman, it’s taken as infidelity. So because of the environment where I was raised, it would be difficult to accept such confessions and live by them. Added to this is a Yoruba proverb that says, “Beti ko ba gbo yinkin, inu koni baje,” meaning, if one does not hear a bad story, one will not feel unhappy. Such a story will make me unhappy obviously and could lead to the end of that relationship. One example that comes to mind is the story of a woman whom after becoming a born-again Christian, confessed to her husband that their two children who were 17 years old and 15 years old, were products of cheating. Rather than the husband to accept such and forgive her, he quit the marriage.

I’ll prefer she tells me about it – Adeyemi Damilare

My prayer is that my partner will never cheat on me, however, if it should happen, I would prefer she comes out to tell me how and why it happened. Although, it will be quite painful initially, but as time goes on, the memory will fade away. If she doesn’t tell me, it will affect our marriage. Telling me will enable me to know the man she had an affair with and to put up necessary measures in place to prevent future occurrence. Above all, she should be remorseful and promise not to make such costly mistakes again. But I found out, that will cause a lot of problems and I might find it difficult to trust her again. I may even become suspicious that our children are not mine. I would think they are all products of ‘assisted reproduction’. Unfortunately, issues like this are now rampant in the society. We now have a lot of kids in the society whose paternity is questionable.

I’ll appreciate her if she confesses – Ajenifuja Taiwo

If my wife cheated on me and she confessed to doing so, I’d appreciate her. We will talk about it and trash it out; it is better than keeping it away from me. Confessing to me will even strengthen my trust for her. If my wife cheated on me and I found out about it on my own, I would never trust her again because transparency is very important in a relationship.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]