What is the greatest lesson love has taught you?
Timileyin akinkahunsi

In relationships and marriages, there is bound to be friction. And in some cases, such leads to quarrel, betrayal or even breakup or separation, which can leave emotional scars that may take time to heal. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians to share the greatest pain love has cost them and here are their responses

I was jilted – Babatunde Adeniran

I am a very jealous guy. I will never forget when I discovered that a lady I used to date was giving her attention to someone else while she was still in a relationship with me. I hated her guts and I saw it as a sign of disrespect. Trust me, I ended that relationship immediately.

I think it made me realise that a woman that is yours is yours. I can’t force a woman to love me. Maybe I was too possessive but despite that, it is impossible for a woman to love two men at the same time. Women are emotional beings, so it is either she is in love with a man or she is just deceiving him.

I got tired of the word love because….Bello Khabir Olajide

I got tired of the word love because I have been disappointed so many times by ladies. Ironically, the ones I love don’t love me back, but the ones I don’t like just want me. Four years ago, a lady I loved told me to my face that I was broke and couldn’t afford to have an apartment of my own; she even said I didn’t have a car. The reason why we got intimate initially was because she saw a picture I took with a top musician. Due to this, she was expecting something big and I thought she liked me genuinely but sadly, she was only interested in me because of my fame as a comedian. The whole experience thought me to be patient, at least now I know I can always get any woman of my choice when I am made.

I lost her due to distance – Ochefu Ochefu

It hurts me so bad when I think about the time I was jilted by my ex-girlfriend. That night, I told her ‘I love you’ on the phone and she said she would call me back. I think I made a mistake by letting her travel out of our state to look for job. I thought it was a joke but that night I cried until my eyes almost popped out of their sockets. After she left in search of that job, I never saw her again. It was at this point I remembered how my mother warned me about loving a woman too deeply.

I almost committed suicide – Okikioluwa Adewale

I was in a relationship some years ago with a very beautiful lady, who appeared to be so nice and gentle; I thought she was an angel. When I met her, I liked her and I was so overwhelmed by her charisma and beauty. I didn’t pray to God about it.

Few months into the relationship, some issues started coming up and she started showing me her real self. She would easily insult me; prayer was like a taboo subject to her and worse still, her mode of dressing changed, she started dressing like Jezebel. I tried to change her because of the love I had for her but one day, she told me in clear terms that she was tired of the relationship.

When she left, it was like my world disappeared. I felt I was finished already; I was even close to committing suicide. I couldn’t eat or sleep well for some days following the disappointment. I was badly affected by it. It was the Holy Spirit that healed my heart and comforted me.

She deceived me to take a loan – Edokpayi Osarodion

I have done a lot of things for love, one of my bitter experiences that I think still stands out is taking a loan to foot the bill of a person that I was once in love with. I took this loan because she promised to pay me back once her parents gave her the money. Few weeks later, I found out that she wasn’t expecting any money from her parents; she needed the money to pay rent for her apartment because she had already spent the one she was given. It took me some time to pay the loan but it ended our relationship of two years. This experience taught me not to allow my emotions to cloud my judgment.

I gave everything but I was deceived – Temitope Mustapha

It was like a normal outing for me and my boyfriend; we were there to celebrate one of his female friends, who was having a birthday party. Few hours into the party, I discovered that the celebrant was his ‘side chick’; I believed I was his main one. They had plans to have sex that same day and he still had the guts to invite me there. I cried on my way home, got home and still continued crying. I gave the relationship everything; I mean, I put my all in the relationship to ensure it went well but it didn’t. The rest is history. That experience taught me that no man is perfect and no relationship is perfect. However, when we love with our hearts, we should not forget to use our brain, as it is the only thing that will remind us that our happiness lies within us. I now guide my happiness jealously so, I always have it at the back of my mind that someone I am in love with may hurt me sometimes, as no one is perfect.

My love and affection were not reciprocated – Adeyemo Oluwaseyi

In my past relationship, I was deeply in love with the man, so I gave it my all. However, despite the level of love I showed him, I felt he never gave me the adequate attention I deserved.

He was my first love and the relationship was going on smoothly until he started changing towards me. He always claimed he was too busy to call or text me regularly. Anytime I complained, he would send one of his allies to apologise to me. At the end of it all, I was forced to end the relationship because I felt it was not going to end well.

I have had a broken relationship before, but I wasn’t hurt – Oluwatobiloba Ariyo

I have had a broken relationship before, but the truth is I was never hurt by it. I didn’t lose anything so I never felt any pain.

I believe a lot of relationship problems can be avoided if people don’t start what they cannot sustain. It is important for women to handle their relationships with the consciousness that if it doesn’t work out, they wouldn’t have anything to lose. I want to end with these wise words from Proverbs 4 vs 7, which people in relationships, particularly young ladies, should find useful – ‘Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and with all thy getting, develop common sense.’

Distance changed him – Boluwatife Adeshina

Well, I’d say the greatest pain love has cost me is change. There was a guy I used to be in a relationship with but distance was an issue in the relationship; he got carried away by his new environment. I was hurt because he called off the relationship for no reason.

I never offended him prior to that time; he just called our relationship without any reasonable excuse. However, the lessons I learnt was to have it at the back of my mind that change is constant and anyone could be a victim of it.

Also, I learnt not to be too relaxed in a relationship because anything can happen at any time. Therefore, it is better to live and strive for independence, be focused and have a direction.

I have suffered false accusations in the past – Adeniyi Adejumoke

I have been falsely accused of doing things I didn’t do in the past. I was labelled a cheat and even called a pretender before people in the name of love. I have been compared with other people and I have also been called useless. Love stories are not all about sweet dreams and happy endings. It’s an experience and not an experiment. He who’s ready to love must be ready to die. Usually human beings always crave for comfort and tend to withdraw when things go sour.

Well, my little experience has really taught me so many life lessons. I decided to stay in the relationship to really deal with my weaknesses and strengths. Presently, I try as much as possible to have a good time together with my partner and talk about different issues that affect us. I try to be flexible and do checks and balances when necessary.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]