Managing your political differences as a couple
Elizabeth Badejo

[email protected]

07088694961

One of the most difficult situations people often find themselves in during political arguments is learning to embrace their political differences which can sometimes create frustration, tension, and sometimes hostility, in the worst case scenario. This mediocrity of the mind can often translate into relationships and marriages, especially if the couple has conflicting interests in politics.

Today, many couples are torn apart during political election seasons and as ridiculous as it may sound; sizzling arguments between couples who have conflict of interests in their political preferences and ideologies can also put a strain on their marital relationship too if not handled with care.

Be the change you desire

Although it can be disheartening when you think about the current situation and its impact on the nation as a whole, you cannot but feel the pressure in your lives and marriage too. For some men, it has almost become very difficult to have a good political conversation without any physical altercation and this compulsive behaviour has also led to transferred aggression in their marriages, especially if the wife has a different political view.

Mahatma Gandhi said, “Be the change that you wish to see in the world.”

It is not enough to have strong political ideologies and expect changes from leaders and the larger society alone. It is high time you stopped pointing fingers at the wrongs that others do and start to take responsibility by reflecting on your actions too. It is only through accountability that you can also see the changes you truly desire for yourself, spouse, marriage and society as a whole.

Respect individual liberty

The family has a huge role to play in ensuring that all the members are able to express their political views and opinions without fear or intimidation in a democratic society, which begins from the home. You should respect your spouse’s rights and individual liberties as well as show love through tolerance and perseverance despite your political differences. It is perfectly normal to talk about politics as a couple as it affects your lives, but communication must be healthy as well as effective.

The aim of a good argument is not to validate your spouse’s content because you do not share the same ideology. Marriage is not about agreeing alone but also about disagreeing; therefore, it is important to have those tough conversations and choice of opinions so that you can both understand each other and develop a credible relationship that can stand the test of time.

“When people have the capacity to choose, they have the ability to change,” Madeleine K. Albright once said.

Redirect your thoughts

Political arguments can sometimes become a waste of quality time which ought to be spent wisely and not carelessly, leaving you feeling exhausted and unproductive afterwards. Relationship built over many years can suddenly become destroyed also. When you think about the negative effect this critical attitude has on your life, friendships and marriage, it is certainly a good time to start redirecting your thoughts towards something more meaningful, and away from those arguments, particularly if it attaches no value to your relationships.

Whatever you do this season, do not allow this frenzy to ruin a loving marriage.

Goodluck!

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]