How will you feel if your spouse always posts marital issues on social media?
With the advent of social media, it is safe to say it is gradually becoming a part of our lives. These days, some people are quick to post personal issues, including those concerning their marriage, on social media platforms. Some people think this is wrong, while others disagree. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians how they would feel if their partners had the habit of posting marital issues on social media platforms.

It will make me sad – Ben Usaga

I will feel sad if my wife does that, it doesn’t make sense to me at all. It is wrong to wash our dirty linen in public. However, I am happy my wife won’t share our marital issues on social media because she even knows I don’t appreciate such things. She is not even that kind of person. When we have disagreements, the worst she could do is to talk to my very close friends but not put the issues on social media. The only situation that can make her do that is if she wants people to learn from our marital experience. I would advise couples to manage their problems, instead of taking them to social media.

I will feel insecure – Akanmu Isaac

I would feel bad because it could be a serious security threat to all the members of the family. Besides, I’m not so sociable, I am an introvert. If my wife should post my marital issues on social media; I would tell her about the dangers of sharing our personal issues with the general public. There was a time I corrected a colleague who had posted her daughter’s achievements on her page. Kidnappers and armed robbers could use such information against her. There are pros and cons of using social media; unfortunately, some people have experienced the bad side, while others continue to enjoy the good side. There are some positive roles that the media has played in relationships and marriages. For example, it is used to mentor young adults who are eligible for marriage. There are lots of articles written by counsellors or writers online in which they share personal experiences to guide them and prevent people from getting into marital pitfalls. We have seen and heard about how deceit broke many marriages and ruined destinies. Anyone who read or watched such things online would learn from them. So the medium is a means through which relationships can be affected positively or negatively. I would advise that every home must understand the appropriate steps needed for a successful marriage.

I won’t be happy with her – Ezinwa Nlewedim

Inasmuch as I don’t cage my wife when it comes to her activities on social media, there are so many private things about my marriage that I won’t be happy to see on social media.

Currently, due to the gross misuse of social media platforms by most couples, such platforms have posed as threats to many homes. Personally, I feel social media has done more harm than good to marriages in recent times.

I will warn her to stop it – Badmus Hakeem

The primary aim of social media is for networking; these platforms were not created for couples to wash their dirty linen in public. If my wife should post our marital issues on social media, I will warn her against it immediately I find out. And if she refuses to take the post down, it can even lead to me blocking her on my platforms.

I will be angry – Aichu Wilson

If my partner puts our issues on social media, I will be angry. We are supposed to keep our relationship and marital issues to ourselves. It is still safe to post things like anniversaries and fun memories on social media platforms, but posting personal issues online is a disastrous thing to do. Doing so means she has invited the world into our private lives.

I would tell him to delete such posts – Chidinma Okoli

I think it is childish to do that and it will make me feel bad. He will have to delete such posts from social media platforms. I will advise people who put their marital issues on social media to desist from such acts. Irrespective of what you are going through in a marriage, it is never advisable to involve a third party, whether the person is a pastor or even a parent. Partners should sit down and resolve their differences amicably. Washing their dirty linen in public is never a good thing to do. Even if a couple met each other on social media; they should handle their personal issues privately.

I won’t be happy with him – Olayinka Efosa

If my husband and I should have a quarrel and he put it on social media; I would not be happy with him at all. I would wake him up late at night to talk to him; and I believe he would change. Posting our personal issues on social media platforms will likely affect my marriage. Issues like this have damaged a lot of marriages.

If he includes my name, I’ll be angry – Olayemi Olaiya

If my husband always posts our marital issues on social media platforms, my reactions will be determined by the nature of the posts. If he mentions my name in such posts, I will see him as immature. If not, then I’ll know he is just trying to get other people’s opinions on the issues.

Interestingly, I trust my husband so much and I know he will never do that. But if he should do that, I would pretend I didn’t see it and move on with my life. I would have it in mind that we are two different people from different homes. I know we are not perfect, and as they say, marriage is for better or for worse. I will also make him understand that social media is not the best place to take our marital issues to. Social media has played both positive and negative roles in marriages and relationships; some people met their spouses on social media platforms and some are in relationships with people they met online. Sadly, homes have also been destroyed through sharing personal issues online. Also, there are so many relationship/marriage counsellors online that give wrong advice to young couples and people in relationships.

I’ll like to know the reason behind his actions – Imenka Pleasure

I won’t like my partner to put up our personal issues on social media. Sincerely, I loathe seeing people washing their dirty linen in public. The thought of having my personal issues out there even makes me sick. If he does that, I will love to know the reason behind it. That way, I will know the best way to solve the problem by working on myself. For example, if I find out that he put our issues on social media because of my stubborn attitude and the only way he felt he could get to me was through social media, I’ll simply learn to communicate with him better.

I will feel bad – Chioma Elsie Wigwe

I will feel bad and let him know his actions could affect our relationship negatively. Posting personal issues will have a negative effect on a marriage because the people on social media who think they are qualified to advise others may not even be able to advise themselves properly. Lots of marriages and relationships are broken today because of the negative influence of social media. People live fake lives on the Internet and this may influence the material demands some women place on their husbands.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]