Create a community of love outside your marriage
Elizabeth Badejo

[email protected]

07088694961

Valentine’s Day has come and gone, a romantic love set in context of two people and also expressed in many different ways too. Although there are many different kinds of love, nevertheless, true love transcends them all in regard to human circumstances. Celebrating all the love we share together as families and community should be a daily affair rather than a seasonal one so that it can be better understood.

Marriage as a product of love in itself has the capacity to build a community of love within and outside its own context. A successful marriage is not only built on inner love shared as a couple but also as an act of kindness to others outside the marriage. The word LOVE is selfless and as a couple, you should help to strengthen the bond of love wherever you go as standing together is a function of the community.

Lasting love must be imminent in every good marriage today, although there are certain risks you may have to take to create a lasting love relationship which can also expose your vulnerability too. Marriage, on the other hand, is filled with many challenges today and it is important that you both support each other during the tough times and not allow life’s difficulties to pull you apart. Let your love become a fabric that never fades no matter how many times it is washed in pains; however, let your love be everlasting and seek to love each other, not only when things are going great but also when they are not.

Others should benefit from your love and this can be accomplished when you both lend your ears to those who are going through life’s difficulties and looking for someone to give them encouragement. Love is not only demanding but must also be shared with friends, families and everyone you come across daily. Show acts of kindness in so many ways by reaching out to families within your community who need your assistance. Also take time out to visit the vulnerable groups such as the elderly and children in need; these are some of the great ways to spread your love within the community.

‘Veritable’ is a big elephant in most marriages today because many couples often try to avoid discussing difficult subjects which can express their true feelings. A healthy marriage is built on trust, honesty and openness. Truth, they say is bitter, nevertheless withholding it can also breed suspicions in your marriage but when it is spoken in love, it can certainly make a big difference. Communicating the truth to your spouse can sometimes seem a difficult task in the beginning but when you do it with all honesty and compassion, the reward can be great in the end.

Essentially without love, we are broken; when love is absent or misplaced in life, it can have a big impact in our everyday existence. Life without love is tolerable; therefore, it is essential to live and love generously as a couple. Love is generous, patient and selfless. It is only when you fully benefit from love that you are able to extend it to others and your community at large. Be kind with your love and practise generosity together within and outside your marriage.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]