What is your greatest fear in life?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

In life, there are circumstances and situations that people never wish to find themselves in and such could lead to fear. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians what their greatest fear in life is and here are their responses.

Failure – Ifeoluwa Suleiman

My greatest fear in life is failing, especially as a result of the choices I have made. It is usually a situation filled with mind-boggling questions. I am always conscious of the consequences of the decisions I make, bearing in mind that opportunity comes once in a life time. The choices I find crucial to my life’s journey include career path, religious beliefs and the choice of a life partner. For example, mylife took a drastic turn for good after I chose my career path as a teenager; I had hit my wits’ end and was labelled a laggard due to an unimpressive academic performance. Eventually, I realised I was heading for a wrong career path to be an accountant after spending two years in the social science-related field. I had to make a tough decision to start my education afresh by opting to be in a science-related field.

The thought of unfulfilled dreams – Wyse Eworitsemogha

The thought of unfulfilled dreams scares me the most in life as I am aware that God created me for a purpose. Therefore, it is very important that I fulfil God’s purpose for my life. I discovered that my purpose on earth is to help reduce the rate of unemployment in my country – Nigeria. I have plans of building a business empire that will employ millions of people and give hope and support to them. This mission has opened my eyes to various business opportunities that can provide jobs and a sense of satisfaction to people. I sleep and wake up with this dream in mind, and the thought of not being able to accomplish it scares me.

Engaging in a fight – Kayode Adeyemo

There are a lot of things that could get lost in the midst of a quarrel or a fight. I could lose my dignity, respect and sometimes I may utter some words I won’t be proud of. As an artiste, it is an abomination for me to engage in any form of quarrel with anybody because it could damage my reputation. If I am found in that kind of situation, I may be seen as a violent person, which may affect my relationship with my fans. Beyond being tagged as violent, I could lose some viable career opportunities if I am caught engaging in such. This may lead to me losing my fans and friends and I may end up being depressed. To avoid such occurrences, anytime I sense that an argument could lead to a quarrel, I try my best to manage the situation properly.

I apply this principle in my marriage as well, because marriage is a fragile union and should be handled with care. Words should be carefully chosen in marriage because of the fragile nature it has. Even though spouses disagree on issues sometimes, the issues would be resolved eventually but the words uttered can never be forgotten.

Making decisions – Joseph Olukolade

My greatest fear in life is making decisions. Growing up and making decisions have been very challenging for me. At a point in my life, I realised I had made some wrong decisions, and the only way I could correct them was to start all over again.

As an accounting student, I’ve been in and out of jobs and each job has been favourable despite all the challenges I have faced in the different places. I could have stayed on a job while waiting for God to perfect everything about my music group but no one knows what tomorrow holds. Most times, I wish I could just turn back the hands of time. Whatever decisions we make in life could either make or mar us; as there is a 50:50 chance that things could go either way. I’ve never regretted leaving my white-collar job for my music career but I still regret not starting my career earlier in life.

Losing my freedom – Olusegun Anthony

I’m just scared of making a commitment and not being able to enjoy everything I ever wanted to experience in life because of it. I feel like I have a lot of potential and making a commitment that could limit my potential could have a negative effect on my life.

Some people may see my mindset as irrational, but I see how people give up their aspirations for their marriage, careers, or their children. I’m afraid of having the opportunity of my dreams come along and being unable to take it because of my commitment to someone.

Poverty – Segilola Anuoluwapo

My greatest fear in life is poverty. I dread the thought of not being able to afford the things I need and want at any point in time or even not being able to offer help or be of help to those around me.

There have been times I have had this fear and it messes with my mind. Just thinking of going through such a period gives me nightmares and that has always been motivating me to always be on my toes to make things work out and God has been faithful to me. I urge people around me to work hard, not leave God behind, get more than a source of income, and never give up.

Dying without making any impact – Mercy Eze

My greatest fear in life is dying without being able to leave my footprints on the sands of time. I hope to build my brand to a reasonable point in life; I don’t want to die with an unfulfilled dream. All my siblings are also women and I would want people to look at our family with admiration. I hope to be a successful business woman because I want my siblings and I to be able to take care of my parents; I don’t want my parents to feel they lack something by having only female children.

Not living up to my expectations – Damilola Awe

For me, my greatest fear is failure; the fear of not living up to expectations (my own, more than anyone else’s) is what I consider to be my greatest fear in life. We all have different definitions of failure, simply because we all have different benchmarks, values and belief systems. The fear of failure is when we allow fear to stop us from doing the things that can move us forward to achieve our goals.

Fear of failure can be linked to many causes. For instance, having critical or unsupportive parents is the root of some people’s fear in life. This is because they were routinely undermined or humiliated as a child, so they carry those negative feelings into adulthood.

Losing a loved one – Esther Obi

My greatest fear in life is losing a loved one to the cold hands of death. I have yet to recover from the death of an aunt who died when I was still young. As a child, she created so many fun memories for me and my siblings. We were too attached to her and then she died in an accident. The news of her death caused me pain in my heart and I don’t want to feel that type of pain ever again.

Hell scares me -Orimadike Chiamaka

As a Christian, my greatest fear in life is not going to heaven; I don’t want to go to hell.

We will all die someday, and when that day comes for each of us, I pray my loved ones and I go to heaven. Presently, I am living my life to please God.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]