How long should people wait to remarry after losing their spouse?
There is no ideal time to remarry

Aronke Omame

There is no ideal time to remarry. Legally speaking, the first marriage ends the moment the spouse dies and the person becomes free to remarry. However, that will not be the first thing on the mind of someone who has just lost their spouse, so it takes a while before the issue of remarriage comes up.

I do not think it’s a bad idea to remarry and I think the widow or widower should do so as soon as they are ready and find an acceptable partner. The reason is that we are all different emotionally and our needs differ.

There are many widows who would not remarry but have sexual relationships. Even when the new man in their life is available for a commitment, they will say no on the pretext that they are looking after their kids. That isn’t ideal as far as I am concerned. Some men also feel that they have been released from the prison of marriage and aren’t too hasty to remarry. Marriage is a good thing, when you are in it with the right person. Remarrying should not be rushed and should be worked at as one would work on a first marriage.

Not less than two years, not more than five years

Rahman Olabode

As a Muslim, I would say an individual should wait for a minimum of two years and a maximum of five years, unless the person doesn’t want to remarry. For a widower, who has children, he won’t be able to cater for the children alone, especially the female ones. People should not wait for more than five years to remarry. It depends on the level of love and affection that the spouse shared with each other when they were together. In my view, if an individual should get married one year after the death of their spouse, it may be perceived that the individual did not really love their late spouse.

However, when a man has more than one wife, I don’t think there is any reason for him to remarry as he has other wives.

When the person is emotionally stable

Muinat Atunnise

There are different religious, philosophical and traditional principles that can inform any opinion or decision on this. For example, in Islam, widowers are permitted to remarry anytime they want while the women have a waiting period of about four months to confirm if they are pregnant or not. In some environments, some widows are not allowed to remarry; otherwise, they lose what was bequeathed to them by their late spouse. Some people don’t bother to remarry because they already have grown children and cannot be bothered with the rigour that a committed relationship comes with. My mother did not even consider remarrying when my dad died. According to her, she was over 60 years old and already nurturing grandchildren and she had the freedom to do as she pleased, especially travelling around to visit her children without having to consider its effect on her partner. When my dad was alive, he would never eat a meal prepared by another person if he had his way. However, I’m of the opinion that remarrying should come after the period of mourning, when the widow or widower is emotionally able to handle a long-lasting commitment whenever that may be, because it is a personal journey.

It depends on the age of the children

Babatunde Odufuwa

When an individual loses their partner, one major factor to be considered before taking any step to remarry is whether the marriage produced children or not. If the marriage has produced grown children, I’ll advise the individual not to remarry. If the children are still young, and the man needs a mother figure in bringing them up, then I’ll advise the man to remarry after three years of courtship.

It depends on the individual involved

Obiageli Ezeokeke

In my view, I would say it solely depends on the individual involved. I believe a man should be able to wait for two years before marrying another wife. Generally, women have the capacity to wait for a longer period than men. Interestingly, in some parts of Nigeria, customs and traditions make it mandatory to stay for two to three years, at least. In most cases, women hardly wish to remarry after the death of their spouses because of their children and the love they have for their late husbands. But due to the nature of men, whether children are involved or not, they must remarry. Most of them even remarry within one year or a year and six months after losing their spouse. However, I know a man who waited for seven to eight years before he remarried.

I suggest three to five years

Otubo Fredrick

In some parts of Nigeria, when an individual loses their spouse, some of the deceased’s family members may start suspecting them of being responsible for the death of their relation. However, such suspicions are usually false. But they may be true in some few cases. I will advise a widow or widower to wait for about three to five years before they remarry to prevent people from suspecting them of having something to do with the death of their lover.

Nine months to one year is fine

Matthew Adeleye

Loneliness following the demise of a loved one varies with individuals based on factors that include the dictates of the person’s religion, level of intimacy or depth of love, and length of abstinence period, which is a function of libido. The aforementioned factors are interrelated. In order for the widow or widower not to succumb to immorality, that is religiously sinful and socially abominable, mourning period should be between nine months and one year. It should not be more than that. This is because life has to go on for as long as we remain alive. In our society, a mourning period of less than what I mentioned will certainly attract ugly comments and criticisms from people.

It depends on the recovery time

Maryjane Udogwu

Three years is enough for a spouse to remarry. It largely depends on how quickly the individual is able to move on after the incident. Mourning the dead forever won’t change anything. The earlier a widow or widower moves on, the better for them, especially if their children are still young. They have to consider the children. In all, it is important for individuals to marry someone who would accept them the way they are.

When they are emotionally ready

Asiwaju Adeniran

Death is not what anyone prays for in marriage but when it happens; an individual has to be strong. The decision to remarry usually stems from the feeling of loneliness or the perception of an emotional vacuum that has to be filled.

The word of God permits a widow or widower to remarry after the death of a spouse. However I am of the opinion that remarrying should come after the mourning phase. The widow or widower needs to be emotionally ready. An emotionally needy person will expect too much from their partner. With this understanding in mind, remarrying should happen when the person is healed and emotionally ready.

A minimum of two years is needed

Omowunmi Ajao

In my opinion, a widow or widower should wait for a minimum of two years before remarrying. This is to give the individual enough time to heal. For instance, a man or woman who lost a caring and lovable spouse may be expecting the qualities of their late spouse in the new spouse. Also some people don’t let go easily; as a result, they tend to put pressure on their new spouse, especially if they had a happy home.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]