What can you not do for love?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

When it comes to love, there is always a question of what partners can do for each other to prove their love and some people often say to their partners: ‘I’d do anything for you.’ Are such statements true or just rhetorical? Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians if there is something they cannot do for love and here are their responses

I cannot register my property in my spouse’s name – David Kolade

This question seems difficult because there are a couple of things one shouldn’t do in the name of love, but talking about them may make an individual appear selfish. However, personally, I won’t allow my partner to claim my personal entitlement or investment. This is a mistake that people make a lot, especially in developed countries where paper documents are crucial. For example, if I buy a house or a landed property, no amount of love for my spouse will make me register such a property in her name.

I cannot kill myself for love – Talib Aarinola

I cannot kill myself for love because no human being is worth dying for; in fact, some women are not worth the sacrifice at all. Aside from not being able to kill myself, I can never do any form of menial job like being a conductor, driver or mechanic just to give any woman money. I am saying this because some men do it all in the name of love. Irrespective of how much I love a woman, I can never borrow money because of her. When I am in love, there are some risks I cannot even take. For example, if I discover a woman does not have a womb, no matter how much I love her, I can’t marry her, never!

I can’t disrespect my parents for love – Alimi Oluwaseun

One thing I would never do is disrespect my parents because of someone I am in love with. Some issues in relationships and marriages may tempt an individual to disrespect their parents; but I have taken a decision that nothing will ever make me disrespect my parents. My parents are the wind beneath my wings in life; therefore, I have to honour them. The Bible says that we should honour our fathers and mothers so that our days would be long on earth.

I can’t support my wife when she insults my parents – Akintunde Seun

I can go all out for someone I am in love with, but there are some certain things I can’t do because of love. For example, I can’t allow my wife to insult my family members and get away with it. If she does it, I would caution her. I cannot accommodate that in the name of love. By doing that, it simply shows that she doesn’t have any regard for them and it could cause a lot of havoc in our home. Self respect and respect for others is very important in marriage.

I show a high level of respect for her relatives; I treat them the same way I would treat my parents.

I can’t sacrifice my future aspirations for love – Hassan Ibrahim Korede

I can’t sacrifice my future aspirations for love, especially when I know it may negatively affect my personal development. When it comes to being sacrificial for love, it is necessary for an individual to apply caution and thread carefully. For instance, if I need to go for a postgraduate programme, and my fiancée needs the money at the time, I won’t give her the money meant for my school fees because it has to do with my future.

I can’t do anything illegal for love – Sophea Mohammed

One thing I cannot do for love is to get involved in an illegal deal in the name of love and allegiance. I won’t also allow someone I love to be involved in illegal deals because aside from it being wrong, I may lose him if law enforcement agencies catch him. I love peace of mind; love is supposed to make me happy and contented, so I will rather have that peace than have things that will cause problems. Life has taught me the hard way that I should walk out of a relationship the moment I realise that the other person is not genuine. I tell anybody who feels they want to start a relationship with me my terms and conditions so that if they cannot comply, they are free to take a walk.

I can’t change my religion for love – Busayo Familua

As a Christian, if I fall in love with someone of another religion, I would still practise Christianity. I cannot compromise my faith because of anybody. Also, these days, there are some randy sexual fetishes that people practise that I cannot engage in. For example, I can never have anal sex with a man, all in the name of love. I cannot risk my health just to satisfy any man. If a man beats me, I cannot continue to stay in the relationship, all in the name of love. Finally, I cannot commit fornication because of love; it is a big no for me. If there is a challenge, and fornication is the only way out, I cannot do it to save him.

I can never swear a blood oath with a man – Ukpo Mbala

I can never go into a blood covenant with a man I love. My reason is because I don’t see any reason why I should go into a blood covenant with a man when the only solid bond between a man and a woman can only be created and certified by God. That is the highest covenant for me.

My advice to people who engage in blood covenant in the name of love is that they should desist from such acts. If a man desperately wants to be joined to a woman, it should be done in the house of God.

I cannot sin against God for love – Oduga Olubunmi

There is absolutely nothing that I cannot do for love; if my partner has sacrificed so much for me, then I can go to any length to prove my love for him. In the absence of such commitment, I will never go out of my way to please him. However, I cannot sin against God for the sake of love. As long as it doesn’t warrant me shedding any human blood, then I can do anything for my partner.

I cannot endanger another person’s life because of love – Ijeoma Chukwu

I can not endanger another person’s life because of the love I have for someone. Some people mistake love for stupidity; an individual needs to be alive to be able to love and be loved back. Love is just a feeling. It is okay to sacrifice some things for love but not to the extent of putting the life of another person at risk because of love.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]