Will you tell your friends’ partners if they are cheating on them?
Sometimes in relationships, partners are unfaithful or insincere to each other. When those affected by such get to find out, their feelings are hurt. But what if the unfaithful or insincere partner in a relationship happens to be your friend; will you tell their partner what you know? This is the question Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians and here are their responses

I will make my friend confess

Bella Rose Okojie

If my friend is doing something wrong like cheating on her partner, I will make her confess by herself. It’s either she confesses to what she has done or we stop being friends because dishonesty is contagious. If I do not make her accountable for her actions towards her partner, there is a possibility that she would do something grave to me too and hide it. Besides, I am not about to increase the number of people cheating on their partners in Africa, so I will mention it in our conversations and make it an issue such that she will feel uncomfortable. So, she will be forced to eventually tell her fiancé or partner.

I don’t want to be tagged as a snitch

Samuel Dada

No, I won’t snitch on my friend. I will advise my friend to desist from anything that will break his home or relationship. This is because I may be tagged as a snitch at the end of the day. Also from experience, one needs to apply wisdom in this kind of situation. It is better to let my friend understand why he should desist from habits that could harm his relationship.

I’ll keep my friend’s secret

Oluwaseun Olamiotan

It is not in my place to advise the partner. If truly I’m a true friend, I would know how to cover up for my friend. Telling my friend’s partner about them will make me a snitch. I won’t do it; the best I can do is to advise my friend to desist from such acts, I have no business with their partner. It’s not in my place at all. I’d advise my own friend and leave them to deal with it.

I would prefer to be diplomatic

Azeez Abeeb Abiodun

In this situation, I would prefer to be diplomatic. I will advise or admonish my friend and let him realise that I am not in any way in support of his behaviour. Telling the lady will be despondent about it and it may have a boomerang effect in the future. Even though it’s obvious that he’s actually wasting the lady’s time, I won’t destroy his reputation. I have seen a situation where a friend of mine told me frankly that he was only using the lady he was dating to while away the time but to my surprise, he married the lady and both of them are living in harmony now.

My conscience won’t let me cover up

Adigun Zainab

I always want the best for my friends. However, if I caught my friend cheating on her partner, I would find it very distasteful. Cheating is crossing the line, especially if the person they are married to is very sincere, loving and emotionally attached to the marriage. I can’t be a part of something so cruel and inhumane; my conscience won’t let me cover such things up from their partners if they are good.

I know it’s not easy to maintain a perfect marriage because human beings are not perfect, but being disloyal and cheating on a spouse should not be tolerated or covered up.

My reason for informing my friend’s partner will not be to destroy their marriage but to try to help them settle their differences because cheating will only pave the way for other vices in a relationship.

It may lead to bad blood between me and my friend

Tayo Ogundare

I won’t call my friend’s fiancée or spouse to snitch on my friend or say he is unfaithful. Rather, I will invite both of them and advise them to work on their relationship.

If I snitch on my friend, it may affect our friendship because the spouse will eventually reveal my discussion with her to my friend. This may lead to bad blood between us (me and my friend).

I will mind my business

Akinpelu Jedidah

Well, she is my friend and I will always want the best for her but her relationship is her private matter. I will mind my business because I have learnt in life not to talk about everything I see. For example, if her partner is cheating on her, it will be better if she finds out herself. If I inform her of her partner’s shortcomings, I may be accused of being responsible for their breakup or divorce if that should happen. Minding my business is just the best thing to do.

It may put me in trouble

Kunle Oyekanmi

Speaking from experience, I won’t tell my friend’s fiancée if they are in a bad relationship because love is blind. If I tell my friends fiancée about his shortcomings, she might listen to me at the initial stage but it may eventually put me in trouble. Whatever my friend is doing that is wrong might be some of the challenges the relationship needs to pass through and by the time they get over that stage, I may forever be seen in a bad light.

I will let him know

Oluchi Igwe Chukwu

If I know that my friend is unfaithful to her fiancé, I will let the fiancé know. The feeling of betrayal is terrible. When an individual is betrayed by someone they love, they will feel like their world has crashed. The effect on self-esteem can affect a wide range of variables in their lives, like the choice of partner in future. The most lasting irrevocable side effect of being cheated on is the loss of trust. Losing your ability to trust affects your ability to make and keep new healthy relationships in future. If I don’t tell him, and he eventually finds out later, the man will end up being paranoid and insecure in relationships.

I’ll rather pray for my friend

Joseph Tosin Samson

We should not be quick to make interventions that will break the bond of love, friendship or marriage. No one was with them when they started. Rather than break the news to her, I think I will try and deal with my friend by counselling him or praying for him. You never can tell what led him to become unfaithful. People can still change, let’s not be quick to cut away what we can actually untie peacefully with wisdom.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the editor[email protected]