Best ways for women to have sexual pleasure
Funmi Akingbade ([email protected])

Yuletide is just around the corner and celebration songs are being heard all around us, but one of the best ways this season can be memorable is when couples connect more than ever. I believe the best sex between couples can happen when the husband has discovered and adequately mastered how to get the best sex out of his wife, which invariably leads to an unending sexual escapade for the husband. So in summary, the best sex for the wife is directly proportional to a lifestyle of endless sex for the husband.

Having memorable celebration seasons is rooted in the oneness and unity of the couples in spirit, soul and body, and one of the best ways this can be achieved is when sex is given attention. The truth remains that wholesome sexual intercourse is a normal and healthy activity between couples, which they engage in for utmost satisfaction. And during the act, lots of incredible things happen in the body.

READ ALSO: You can select your baby’s sex before birth (I)

Husband one of the major things that can make sex fun for your wife is orgasm; during which her heart beats faster. Then, hormones such as endorphins and oxytocin send instant messages about this sexual activity to the brain and other sensitive parts of her body, and blood is pumped into her genital regions to create high voltage tension that ultimately triggers a reflex (that is, a muscular spasm of the genitals). The immediate reflex results in her pelvic-floor muscles contracting between five and 15 times at intervals of about one second.

This is in one word the wonder of orgasm which has been defined as an explosive discharge of neuromuscular tension experienced by most wives! You should do everything and all things to make this achievable during this period. You cannot imagine the sexual pleasure it will lead you to, even for the husband.

Besides, do you know that medically orgasm helps to burn out some amount of fat around the heart tissues and neural pathways in the spine; this explosive discharge of a neuromuscular tension is not only peculiar to the male gender when they have ejaculation, but amazingly, it is also applicable to your wife.

When your wife undergoes the mysteries of orgasm, especially when you as the husband press the right button by giving good, careful and gentle attention to the clitoris, which is the most prominent and sensitive female organ that could trigger orgasm anytime there is passionate sexual activity, you are not only hitting the nail on the head, you are driving the nail down with the appropriate speed. This woman will ALWAYS ask for a repeat of this type of unique and exclusive experience.

Husbands, I need you to know what this powerful organ looks like. The clitoris has good nerves like the nerves of the penis. It is as highly sensitive as the penis regardless of the size.

This organ is about two inches above the vaginal opening, located in front and above the opening of the urethra (urine outlet).

It is the most sexually sensitive part of the female reproductive organ; it becomes slightly enlarged and erect in response to sexual stimulation. This is called the female ‘sexual volcano trigger’.

Most married women do not experience orgasm because their husbands hardly take time to lovingly and gently caress this organ during foreplay. Sufficient stimulation of this organ during foreplay produces the orgasm experience in nearly all women, and this organ still remains the major organ that can give women sexual satisfaction.

However, it should be noted that this must be done with utmost care, as many husbands have, in the course of caressing the clitoris, inflicted untold pains on their wives. What is expected of such husbands is merely a tender touch, or better still, using their tongue or hands to stimulate the organ, which produces orgasm quickly. Unfortunately, in most parts of the African continent, this wonderful structure is usually removed or mutilated during female circumcision.

The question is: why are some women finding it difficult to experience orgasm? The answers are not difficult to know. Some husbands are not doing justice to it during foreplay or penetrative sex.

May I say that although, it is widely known that sex has many advantages, the sex that has the most advantages is the regular orgasmic sex, which has been recorded to produce much more advantages. Not only does it help one’s confidence, self-esteem, vitality, strength and energy, it also has concrete health benefits.

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Six reasons some women slide into early menopause

On the other hand, regular sex without orgasm, especially for a woman, may leave her unsatisfied and disinterested in sex. In fact, the reason why some women are so disinterested in sex is because they have not experienced the blissful release that comes with orgasm. It has been scientifically proven that until this organ in the woman is regularly ‘serviced’, leading to good orgasms, such women may not be truly happy.

Make sure that your wife achieves orgasm every time. You may not necessarily see or hear her scream and pant wildly, but in a subtle way, you will see the transformation taking place when you press the right button at the right time

The sexiest thing any wife can do to assist the husband to achieve this is for her to tell him what she likes best in bed and how she likes it carried out. While many husbands usually reach orgasm in a matter of minutes, it could take some wives 20 minutes to get there.

Many wives would experience unending orgasm and ask for more if she is given sex at different places in the house. This particular method has been subscribed to by many women.

These are some comments of some wives who want to be anonymous because they prefer privacy:

[a] Whenever this is going on, I whisper romantic things to my husband, and it leaves me gasping for breath.

[b] I really do not like the idea of going straight for my clitoris. I usually make this his last resort, and when this is going on, I love to strategically change positions. Changing my position helps me to want more orgasms, especially when my nipples are hard. Although, this particular method drains my husband, still he comes for it again and again.

Therefore, wife, one of the best ways to accelerate this is for you to be able to know your body. You must understand your body system and mechanism and also pay attention to what both your body and mind are saying before and during intercourse. Know your libidoral peak and libidoral tolerance level; this will always put you above and intoxicated always.

Women need to know the areas of their bodies that could cause a spark of fire. Some of the better-known spots include the G-zone, the inner part of the thighs, the nape of the neck, the nipples, the first three inches of the vaginal and other places that each individual woman has discovered. It is important that a wife guides and directs her husband to the parts of her body that give her maximum pleasure. This is good for building up tempo and achieving climax.

For some other wives, creating a special environment can do the magic. For others, it could be soft music. So, figure out the kind of atmosphere that works for you.

Questions and answers

I have eye bags after sex

I have noticed that recently, I develop puffiness under my eyes and I think they get bigger each time I have sex. My friends think it is as a result of excessive salt intake.

Mrs Igiedege Christy

A lot of things can cause puffiness under the eyes, but definitely not sex. Sometimes, excessive intake of alcohol may be a reason or not getting enough sleep and general body stress. But it is nothing to worry about. As a matter of fact, over-the-counter hemorrhoid treatments can help get rid of puffiness or bags under your eyes. Over-the-counter hemorrhoid treatments may help deflate the puffiness and help to tighten and smoothen the skin. Also, green tea bags contain a natural anti-inflammatory chemical, which can reduce fluid build-up that contributes to puffiness.

On average, how long should sexual intercourse be and how many calories can a couple burn after having sex? Also, what is the smallest penis size ever recorded?

Mr Niloke from Lekki

Hi, sexual intercourse lasts between three to 13 minutes. Calories lost during sex is about 300 calories per hour and the size of the smallest penis is between five to eighth of an inch.

He is upset because my sex drive is not the same as that of his late wife

I got married to a widower recently and according to him, he and his late wife climaxed simultaneously every time they had sex. He wanted the same with us but I have never been able to climax that way.

Glory Pepeku

It is possible that their well-timed orgasms were genuine; the fact that anything is possible does not make it any less unlikely. Tell him you are not his late wife, that you have your own unique way of making him experience sexual pleasure, and that the earlier he stops comparing you to his late wife, the better for the union.

I have relationships with other men, I need help

Funmi, can you help me? I am married and my husband is doing his best to satisfy me sexually but I must confess that despite that, I still have two other men I go to for sex and I have tried many times to stop it but the more I try, the more I am drawn to them. They are not giving me money but until I have sex with them in a week, I won’t feel good. Sometimes, I even cry afterwards, but I still go back to them. They both were my ex-boyfriends before I married my husband. If I confess to my husband, I am not sure of what his reaction will be. Can you explain what is wrong with me?

Faith Jolomi

Each time a man connects with a woman sexually and releases his sperm into her, he is actually releasing a part of himself into her, and he is actually leaving a part of his DNA in her. Even when she washes herself after the act, the truth is that a part of him remains inside her. This can often create a feeling of sexual addiction.

When someone decides to have multiple partners, it can sometimes send mixed emotional signals within the body and soul of that person. Married couples must be careful of different energies or spiritual forces polluting their bodies through casual sex here and there. Sexual intercourse is actually something that unites man and woman, spirit to spirit, soul to soul and body to body. This is something that a condom can’t protect you against.

There is no such thing as ‘casual sex. Sex is an intimate activity that intricately links the soul of two people together. Sex creates a powerful exchange of forces between those involved. These connections and imprints are left on the mind, soul and spirit of the participants for a very long time, even after the deed is done. The longer and more intimate the contact with another person is, the more powerful the reinforcement and the interaction the bond will become, and the more difficult it is for them to leave each other. In this case, if your will is not very strong to help you, I strongly believe you need a higher spiritual intervention, so get spiritual help.

Is this selfishness or what?

My husband and I have been through many things just to get a child of our own for the past 18 years. Finally, I am pregnant and due to be delivered of my baby in four months’ time. The challenge we have now is that my husband is finding it difficult to stay off sex for the rest of the pregnancy period. Before my pregnancy, there was never a week that we didn’t have sex. But since I got pregnant, I have been ignoring him. Few days ago, I caught him masturbating. Please, what sex position should we use while I am pregnant?

Martha Andy

Do you have any medical reason preventing you from having sex while you are pregnant? If yes, he has to endure for the few remaining months and try to stop masturbating. But if no, there are two suggestions for you. The rear entry style, whereby you and your husband lay on your sides with your buttocks against his stomach; then he can enter your vagina gently. This is a good position to use during pregnancy because he will not have to put pressure on your tummy. The only problem with this type of position is that his penis will not touch your clitoris. And if you want him to really enjoy himself and you also want to relish the act, make sure that while his penis is moving in your vagina, he should continually fondle your clitoris with his finger, until both of you have a happy ending. The ‘sitting position style’ whereby he sits on a chair and you sit with one of your legs on each side of his body is also good. Here, his penis does not actually enter your vagina deeply so as not to cause any harm, especially in the eighth and the ninth month. You have to show love to your husband. Have sex often and make it exciting; that is how love grows in a relationship.

What is the definition of sex addiction and what does it entail?

Oonus Etiosa

Sex addiction is described as an overwhelming need for sex, the pursuit of which frequently takes precedence over all other things in life, including work and relationships. Sex addicts frequently engage in risky behaviour, including vulnerable sex and seeking stimulation in dangerous situations. Behaviour is usually self-justified, so most sex addicts don’t view their actions as problematic, though they frequently feel a sense of shame or guilt after indulging their addiction.

Conducts associated with sex addiction include: Compulsive masturbation; multiple extramarital affairs; anonymous sex partners or strings of one night stands; consistent use of pornography; consistent need for phone or computer sex; continuous use of prostitutes; sexual exhibitionism (such as ‘flashing’); voyeurism (watching others have sex); and stalking a sex partner.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]