Some ways to shower others with love this Christmas
Elizabeth Badejo

Christmas is a time of love, joy and most importantly, it is a season of sacrifice which is at the heart of true love. As it’s the usual custom, it is a time to give and receive. On average, the principle of giving at Christmas is taking a new turn as some people have shifted their Christmas values from receiving to giving. It is indeed a time to think about others beyond yourselves and put their needs before your own, thus showering your love on many more who truly need it this Christmas.

Invite a lonely heart

Christmas can be a very lonely time for so many people such as the elderly people, single men or women, widows or widowers, orphans and many other vulnerable groups whom the day would usually pass by like any other day. Everyone knows someone who will be spending Christmas alone this year, you can even decide to ask families and friends if they know of anyone who can benefit from your kindness, someone you can invite to your home to celebrate the joy with you. You will never know how it feels to be alone until you show you care through the little things other people take for granted.

Volunteer your time

You will be amazed at how many people give up their time at Christmas to ensure that others who are underprivileged also have some memories to hold on to about this special day. There are several groups who go the extra mile to ensure that deprived families and individuals living in hopeless situations are given hope at Christmas through donations of foods, clothing and essential needs. The challenges many of these projects often face is lack of funds or volunteers to help them reach all those places. A great way to show others love on this Christmas is to embrace some of these groups and volunteer by helping them raise funds or volunteer your time and help them distribute the items to those places.

Plan a call to action

Whichever way you plan to move this Christmas, do not move alone but plan a call to action and get a few trusted and reliable families and friends involved in your plan as more helpers make the task easier to achieve. Perhaps you may also want to start your own charity this Christmas by asking others to give to a cause you strongly believe needs support. Whether it is your time, money, food or encouragement you are able to give this Christmas, it will certainly make a difference in the life of the receivers.

Get the kids involved

Perhaps you want to know the importance of showing your children to love others this season. Take them to an orphanage to visit other children who are not as privileged as they are. It is a great way to teach them gratitude, especially if they are very demanding. Let them take some Christmas gifts to share with those in the orphanage and also spend a few hours interacting and socialising with the children there. It’s a great way to instil discipline in children and also a sense of appreciation for what they have.

The true spirit of Christmas is caring, sharing and loving; hopes can be restored when you put other people’s needs above yours this Christmas.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]