What would you do if you found out your partner set you up to test your fidelity?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

In relationships and marriages, trust is very important. However, at some point, partners may start feeling insecure by having trust issues and this may lead one person to set up their partner in a bid to test their fidelity. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians what they would do if they found out their partners set them up to test their fidelity

In every class, there is examination – Akingbade Nurudeen

I have to be sincere to myself, if my partner should test my fidelity, I don’t think I will feel bad. My reaction will be determined by the extent to which she went to test my fidelity. I don’t have any secrets. In any class, there should be an examination, so if I am sincere in the relationship, I should be able to pass the test.

I would be furious – Oluwatoyin Saka

I will be angry about it and at the same time, I will be disappointed, because a relationship built on distrust will not end well.

I don’t think I will take any drastic action by calling off the relationship; I will just take my time to think things through and let her know how mad I was. So if she is remorseful about it and promises not to ever try such again, then we will continue with our relationship.

I don’t know if I will pass the test – Pius Matthias

When I am in any relationship, I am always faithful. So if my girlfriend should test me to find out if I could cheat on her, I might pass the test. However, I am only human so there are chances that I may not pass the test. If that is the case, then the only option I will be left with will be to apologise to her. She may not accept my apology initially but I know eventually she would accept me back because what goes up must surely come down.

I won’t be angry – Felix Nelson

I do not see anything wrong in it; this is because in a relationship, no one is to be trusted. If my partner should set me up or try to test my fidelity, I will understand that she just wants me to prove myself as being faithful to her. Interestingly, I can also test if she is also faithful to me if I want to know how faithful she is. Putting your partner to a test is a way to move the relationship to the next level. If partners can pass such tests, then they will have absolute trust in each other.

It is a result of lack of trust – Vincent Aina

I don’t think it is proper because a partner cannot know the true personality of their partner by putting them to test. My reason is because a test would mean that my partner is touching a part of me that has never been explored. Even some pastors fail in some areas let alone someone who is not a pastor. It will be very annoying if I fail the test and then realise that I was being tested. I will be angry with her.

When you put someone to the test, it is like policing the person. It can lead to the end of the relationship. Even Peter that was close to Jesus denied him three times.

I feel sorry for any guy that wants to test me – Adeoye Adejumoke

If my partner should put me to test using another guy, I feel sorry for him. There should be trust in any relationship; so for a guy to put me to the test means he has trust issues. If I eventually fall in love with the guy who he is using to test me, I am going to continue to date that other guy because I will believe that we are meant for each other.

My advice is that people who do such things should stop trying to put their partners to the test; people should learn how to sort their issues out.

I would be glad – Yetunde Adeyi

If I found out my partner put me to test, I would not consider it as something serious. I would simply be glad that I passed the test. I know that I would pass the test since I have no plans of cheating on him. However, what made him to do that is what I would like to know. Has he stopped trusting me to the point of having to think about testing my fidelity? What did he see or hear about me? Asking me about it would have been better instead of putting me to test, something that might get out of hand. So testing people’s fidelity like that might get out of hand.

I will feel disrespected – Deola Kwene

I feel trust is the most important thing in any relationship or marriage. I will feel very bad and disrespected. I would think that he is hawking my dignity; if there is true love, then there should be trust. I can’t really say if I will pass such a test because I am only human. If I find out that my partner is the one trying to test me, I might even want to pay him back by failing the test. I will just play along once I know it is from him. Personally, I don’t have the time to put someone to test like that because it will be a time-consuming process. I have a friend that broke up with her supposed fiancé because he put her to test.

I would be mad at him – Joy Daniel

As humans, we are very unpredictable, if my partner should put me to the test, I would believe that he must have told the other guy about my weak spots. Going by the assumption that he must have revealed some things about me to the guy that was asked to test me, there is a probability that I would fail such a test. If my lover should test me in that way, I would be mad at him. In fact, if I don’t pass the test, I will make sure I leave my supposed partner and the man he used to test me. I will see both of them as a test too.

He could have done it out of love for me – Nkem Marshalls

Before a guy would carry out such an act, it could be that he is having trust issues with his woman, probably because he thinks she is living a wayward life. It could also be as a result of the type of friends she keeps or her love for money. For a woman that once had these traits or one of them, her partner might want to put her to the test, just to see if she would be faithful to him.

However, if my partner should do that to me without me exhibiting any of the traits I mentioned earlier, I would be really mad at him, but I will eventually forgive him. If he went through the stress of trying to test me, then he could only have done that out of love and care for me.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]