Things that can pose a challenge to couples’ sex lives (III)
Funmi Akingbade

[email protected]

08034540594, 08156047309

Some sex experts recommend drinking eight glasses of water daily to stay lubricated. Most times, women get more vaginal infections with frequent sex and they wonder why. Basically, during sex, the man’s penis can push some rectal bacteria present near the woman’s vaginal opening into her urethra, thereby causing infections. But couples are always advised to make sure that their genitals are cleansed with soap before having sex. Also urinating immediately after sex will help.

Sometimes while having a bath, some ladies who have just got married become alarmed if they locate a piece of whitish tissue hanging from their vagina, especially if they are not using any contraceptives. The tissue may just be a leftover piece of your hymen, the membrane partially covering your vaginal opening, which usually tears the first time you have intercourse. When the hymen is broken, a tissue remnant can remain at the opening, where you may not notice it, for a long time before it falls off.

Some ladies who have constantly had normal vaginal delivery, and have been given episiotomy over time, may notice that their labia (the lips of the vulva) are long and uneven. Such ladies often wonder if they are okay. If you are one of them, I think the best thing to do is relax. It is not uncommon for one side of your labia to be a bit longer than the other, even though long or lopsided labia are nothing to be ashamed of or worried about.

The uterus is also another amazing sex organ that is so fragile and must be handled cautiously, especially when it comes to using contraceptives. It is not safe to expose this organ to uncensored pills and examinations. But at the same time, examinations like Pap smear must be done regularly to determine the state of the uterus. After the examination, you may notice a few drops of blood. But they are nothing to worry about.

To do a Pap test, your doctor brushes a spatula-like device against your cervix, collecting mucus that under a microscope might reveal abnormal cells. It is possible for the device to scratch the cervix, triggering a small amount of bleeding. But alert your doctor, if the spotting goes on for more than 24 hours or if it is a steady flow of blood. Either is a sign of a potentially serious infection.

A woman who is still in her childbearing age may likely experience some side effects by going off birth-control pills, even though the symptoms may vary depending on the specific hormone combo in the oral contraceptive.

The clitoris is another female sex organ that requires a lot of attention. It is the organ that enhances sexual enjoyment in a woman. It varies in size and shape, although appearing to be divided in some women’s bodies, like two pearls, and sometimes causing them to feel a little embarrassed.

But the fact that the clitoris may assume this dual form does not mean there is a medical problem and it also does not mean that it will trigger off multiple sensations in a woman when caressed.

The truth is that no matter what a lady looks like down there, the clitoris has the same capacity for helping her to achieve orgasm when it is appropriately stimulated. The clitoris consists of 8,000 nerve fibres, which are about twice as many as contained in the male penis. When stimulated, it becomes as hard as the penis. This important sex organ should be tenderly caressed during lovemaking in order not to inflame it and to avoid an infection. It must not be cut off in the name of female circumcision.

When cleaning up, ladies should avoid the use of too much alkaline soap because it can disturb the natural pH level of the vulva and as a result, make the clitoris hard and painful. The reason is that the female vulva, which comprises the clitoris and other organs, produces slightly acidic pH that encourages growth of a bacteria known as lactobacillus, which keeps the clitoris in a healthy condition for as long as possible.

The clitoris is the sex organ that makes it possible for a lady to have an orgasm. If she keeps experiencing healthy orgasms, there is the possibility that she won’t even have any more menstrual pain and cramps. Sexual orgasm actually minimises or prevents menstrual pain and cramps. This is because the vigorous muscular activity that takes place during orgasm, down in the clitoris, releases tension and soothes pain, such that if a lady is not turned on because she is suffering from menstrual pain and her husband wants sex, it will eventually be to her advantage.

Interestingly, orgasm increases the chances of conception occurring after intercourse. This is because when a lady experiences orgasm, she retains more sperm in her body, thereby increasing the possibility of fertilisation taking place in her womb. But couples should avoid frequent sexual intercourse during the wife’s menstrual period because she is more susceptible to infections at this time than any other.

Do you know that having orgasmic sex three times in a week burns off between 7,500 to 15,000 calories in a year?

Besides, a healthy orgasmic sex is a natural antihistamine that can help combat asthma and common cold. That is why couples do not catch cold or sneeze in the middle of sexual act. The skin is another sexual organ that must be cared for. Couples should endeavour to have regular baths, at least twice daily, to prevent bad body odour.

So, when couples form the habit of washing up in the morning and at bedtime, they are very likely to end up having very healthy skins, such as would be sexually appealing. But salty food, alcohol, soft drinks, and cigarettes can leave the skin in a bad shape, as a result of an overload of toxins.

To enjoy the service of your skin in a good sexual relationship, it will be wise to steer clear of highly salty foods. Similarly, the level of alcohol intake should be minimised because it affects the liver and excess alcohol affects your ability to enjoy good sex.

The mind is also important for building a good sexual relationship. Married couples should always strive to keep their minds free of hurtful memories, inhibiting notions and stress, in order to increase sexual enjoyment. You must, on a regular basis, make up your mind to always forgive your spouse, regardless of their offence. You may never have a healthy sexual relationship with your partner until you are ready to overlook their faults.

Inhibited lovemaking

Dear Funmi,

My wife and I have been married for nine months, and she hasn‘t had an orgasm yet. She has certain fears for sex, and a lot of inhibitions. There are distinct boundaries that never get crossed. I don‘t blame her, but she blames herself. What can we do to help things get better?

Orojie

Hi, Orojie, new couples have similar cases; early adjustment problems are not unusual. Most couples have questions related to their physical intimacy. Many of the books on sexuality can be helpful in overcoming inhibitions. You can get my book, ‘Sexual intimacy in marriage’, in any of the leading bookstores around. Since sexual development is such a private experience, there can be many reasons for the difficulty. It might be helpful to see a qualified sex therapist to help your wife work through feelings that block her orgasmic response. These could be related to early restrictive teachings that presented sex as dirty. Many women were never given the message that marital sex is a gift meant for our pleasure.

Another common cause is a woman’s need for her own emotional control and her related feelings of anxiety as erotic stimulation increases. The intensity of pre-orgasmic excitement can seem threatening for a woman who has learned to stay in control of her feelings. Also, guilt related to sexual fantasies or premarital experiences can create barriers to full sexual enjoyment. Of course, early sexual abuse can stimulate fearful associations also. So seek help.

Why do we need to have phone sex?

My husband wants phone sex. Is this not out of place? This is a time in our lives that we are expected to be thinking of better things and making the children’s future a better one and not agitating for phone sex. I am confused.

Mrs. Hassan Mulikat

Hmmm! Maybe it is one of your husband’s fantasies and since he is not demanding phone sex from an outsider, I think it is worth given consideration. Both of you can talk about it. Also, it could be that he is finding sex boring with you and he is looking for ways both of you can revive it, and if this is the case, it is certainly better than nothing.

If you do it in good faith and only with your husband, maybe in the next few months, both of you may refine it into a very sexy art. Usually with phone sex, you begin by taking turns to tell each other what you would do to each other if you were together, where you would touch and how you would feel, and then what you both would do next. Then, after arousal, how you would repeat the same act over and again. Phone sex invigorates a boring sex life and immeasurably rekindles old flame of busy couples.

When both of you are now physically together, it’s like you are picking up from where you left off in your last conversation instead of having to get sexually reacquainted all over again. And besides, there is something about phone sex that gets both of your imaginations going. You will begin to talk about doing things to each other you never tried before. But when you get together, you could try them. Sexy phone conversations allow couples sexual imaginations to soar as they had never done before. If one or both of you travels a lot, phone sex still gets you connected and makes you both feel wonderful.

I always experience pain in my tummy

I always experience pain in my tummy each time I am about to ovulate. Is this normal or do I have an infection or what? But the funny thing is that I always feel like wanting to make love at such times. Do you have any idea of what is wrong with me?

About a fifth of women can actually feel something happening in their ovaries around ovulation. This can range from mild achiness to twinges of pain. Some women feel ovulation as one-sided backache or a tender area. This condition is called Mittelschmerz, it may last anywhere from a few minutes to a few days. If you notice these sensations at roughly the same time each month, check your cervical mucus.

Ovulatory pain can be a useful guide to when you’re fertile. Many women experience heightened sexual desire in the several days immediately before ovulation. Feeling sexy may be signs that you’re at your most fertile period. You may notice a peak in sexual desire at this time.

I am still bleeding after a pregnancy test

Is it possible to have periods when you are pregnant? I am still bleeding after a pregnancy test indicated that I was pregnant. My doctor said there was no reason for me to be worried but I am afraid.

Mrs Emason

Technically, no, normally, pregnancy prevents the drop in hormones that cause the uterine lining to shed off. However, when you are pregnant, you can still experience spotting or light bleeding around the time you would normally expect your period, although it is not considered an actual period. Known as implantation bleeding, this is a harmless event that occurs when the fertilised egg first burrows into your uterus and breaks some of the blood vessels in its lining.

My friend broke his penis last Christmas

Funmi, last Christmas, I was on holiday with my wife and some other couples but the holiday ended on a sour note with my best friend having to go to the hospital. I later learned that he was rushed to the hospital because he broke his penis. How can this happen and after such damage, can there be a total restoration? Since then, my friend has not been able to have sex normally with his wife and they have yet to have a child.

Monday Sylvester

Yes, you can break your penis. It is very possible for someone to break his penis but it is not a common occurrence. The penis actually has no bones but has chambers. These chambers are filled with open spongy tissue that becomes filled with blood. The pressure from these blood-filled chambers causes a man to become erect. If during sex or when spouses are experimenting with new positions and style, the man pushes too hard and bends the penis too far, the chambers can be torn. It can happen if the man slips out during sex and thrusts against his wife’s body. Along with pain, a man might hear a popping sound that appears like a fracture. Afterwards, his manhood may be swollen and bruised. Actually if your friend did not get a proper medical treatment, he may not have a good sex life because if a penis breaks, the best form of treatment is through surgical intervention.

I am scared of my son

Please Madam; kindly help me out. What’s the average age for a boy to have his first erection? My son is barely four years old now but I get scared each time I see him with an erection, especially in the mornings and at odd times. I thought he should not be having such at this tender age. Should I take him to a doctor?

Mrs Obong Effong

I think you should calm down and be more observant. You should get your facts right before visiting the hospital because amazingly, some boys are born with erections. As a matter of fact, according to researchers, some effective ultrasound scans have shown that babies can even have erection in the womb. Why I want you relax is that babies’ erections aren’t sexual. Stimulation can cause them – they’re common during diaper changes, bathing and sometimes when you torch the area too frequently. So what you should be more concerned about is how frequent his penis is being touched, who does it and the motive for such. Is your son with a home help or a caregiver? Watch out for such things.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]