Nine attitudes to imbibe to have successful year
Tunde Ajaja

For most people, a new year offers an exciting opportunity to review their lives, activities, the choices they made in the past and more importantly, what they like to do better in the current year. And this has somewhat become the custom every year.

But beyond the excitement and positive feeling that comes with drafting New Year’s resolutions, a recent research by Strava, an online social network for athletes, shows that there is tendency for people to put those resolutions aside as early as January 12.

This is independent, but it corroborates a report by a data research company in Germany, Statistic Brain, that says only about 9.2 per cent of people who make New Year’s resolutions keep to them. It also found that only 72.6 per cent only maintain their resolutions through the first week; 68.4 per cent make it past two weeks; 58.4 per cent make it past one month, while only 44.8 per cent make it past six months. Overall, the company found that only eight per cent succeed in keeping to theirs.

Several reasons have been blamed for people’s inability or failure to keep to their goals, some of which include setting unrealistic goals, not being prepared to do what the expected change demands and impact of external factors beyond such persons’ control.

Professor of psychology, Toba Elegbeleye, said, “When you are setting your goals, it is personal, and it is an infinitesimal component of happenings in a society, which is not controlled by you. Therefore, so many factors must be right for your personal wish to become a reality.

“Let us say mid-way into the year, your employer is unable to pay your salary and you had already set a goal to invest 30 per cent and save 20 per cent of your income monthly. What will you do? That is why we say it is better to have alternatives, so that in a country where some institutions are not working and where anything can happen, you can switch to the next plan when one is truncated. Therefore, if things go south, do a reset.”

Regardless, however, given the central desire of people to have a better year than the previous one, the following are tips on behaviours or actions that could make that achievable:

Do a yearly personal auditing: To have a better year than the previous one, according to Elegbeleye, it is better for people to reflect on where they are coming from, where they derailed in their previous goals, the challenges they had in the period under review, what their excesses and deficits were, see if they depended too much on friends and reflect on what they need to do differently. He said, “Most importantly, you have to be very honest with yourself in the self-auditing. Assess yourself genuinely so that whatever you did wrong, you can try to correct such in the New Year. When you a do an honest self re-appraisal of yourself, it helps.”

Change your comparison order: It would seem that one of the things that could disrupt people’s journey to being better individuals is comparing themselves with others unduly. Elegbeleye explained that it could make people lose focus on what is really important and restrict them to focusing on doing things that could make them measure up with others, outside their priorities. He said, “Intuitively, people want to compare themselves with others, like an old classmate or colleague who seems to be doing better. It’s always better to change that comparison order or stay positive and assure yourself that you would also get there. That helps to reorder your focus and efforts. If you don’t change that order, you might find yourself doing what is not of benefit to you and what could even lead to regrets, say at the end of the year. And no external person can help you to do that; it’s you who can reorder your priorities yourself.”

He also said people should build for themselves a form of self-restraint, self-confidence and inner power that would enable them to cope with changes around them in the course of the year. He added, “For example, people have been seeing you as a ‘big man’ and you lose your job suddenly, you should be able to adjust to a more affordable lifestyle afterwards, so that the incident doesn’t ruin your entire year.”

Have a SMART goal: This factor, which is about the most popular discourse around the new year and is at the centre of New Year’s resolutions, has been a subject of debates at several times. While some say it’s not helpful as people don’t keep to them, some others say it’s a necessary compass for the year and some others are indifferent. However, according to Elegbeleye, for a life to have meaning, people must set goals and they must in fact impose on themselves the need to be organised.

He said, “Whether poor or rich, people need to set goals, and they must have objectives. But you must always have alternatives so that if one fails, you can always jettison it and embrace another one. However, you must not lose focus of the real goal. To a large extent, every human being has a common goal, which is to achieve and reach the height of whatever they set for themselves. “But how you will reach it is the essence of the goal-setting. Meanwhile, people are also advised to make their goals Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic and Time-bound. For example, it’s more achievable to say ‘I’ll jog for 30 minutes every morning to keep fit than saying I’ll do exercise this year.’ They are also advised to make their goals flexible so they could amend if one is not achievable.” Meanwhile, Statistic Brain notes that people who make clear resolutions are 10 times more likely to attain their goals than people who don’t.

Learn new things: It is a popular saying that people tend to start derailing the moment they stop learning new things and according to a popular quote by Abigail Adams, a woman who was said to be one of only two women to have been both wife and mother to two United States Presidents, learning is not attained by chance; it must be sought with ardour and diligence, which implies that people must be decisive about it. Therefore, in the New Year, people are advised to learn new things, like a new language, musical instrument, new skills and vocations. People are equally advised to develop love for reading; no matter how busy they are, because there are many things to learn from others. A researcher, Dr. Tim Keller, said he found from his research that, regardless of age, learning new things enriches the mind and rewires the brain. And according to Forbes, the most important skill for 21st century would be the ability to learn, which drives adaptability and helps people to stay relevant.

It added, “You can’t go wrong cultivating a growth mindset and embracing the idea that you’ll have to learn something and your ability and willingness to continually build new knowledge and skills could spell the difference between a continuous upward trajectory and a career plateau.”

Mind your health: Apart from the need to stay alive, people are often advised to shun unsafe and unhealthy practices because of the toll it could take on their health. Thus, scientists have stressed the need for people to shun habits like smoking. They have advised people to go for regular check-ups, eat lots of vegetables, have good rest, stay away from carbonated drinks and see their doctors from time to time. This tends to eliminate or reduce the amount they might need to spend on treatments, because certain ailments could have been avoided.

Shun procrastination: It has also been observed that one factor that prevents people from achieving set goals is procrastination. This, perhaps, informs the popular saying that the best time to do something is ‘now’. From findings, its impact on people include low self esteem, huge disappointment in self, setbacks in career or business ventures and stress. Thus, people are advised to set specific goals, get an accountability partner, understand the reasons for the procrastination, prevent them and avoid distractions like excessive use of phones and chatting.

Invest in the future: The need for people to have multiple streams of income cannot be overemphasised, especially with the state of the economy. Therefore, beyond the option of putting money in savings or current accounts, people are advised to embrace investment options, but with the counsel of an investment analyst. There are also merchant banks licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria, which people could consult. Meanwhile, in one of the words of billionaire businessman, Warren Buffet, he said, “Never invest in a business you can’t understand.”

Don’t forget to have fun: While it is important for people to dedicate time to work and making money, people are also advised to create a work-life balance. It has, however, been said that such would help to minimise stress, create social bonding and be familiar with happenings around.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]