What are the complex things you do not understand about the opposite sex?
Some people believe that men and women are wired differently and that sometimes, this makes it difficult for persons of both sexes to understand each other. For example, there are some traits in women that some men say they do not understand, and vice versa. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians about some of the things they do not understand about the opposite sex

Some men find it difficult to express love – Bakare Tosin

I still don’t understand why some men find it difficult to show love to their women; it is really annoying because in many cases, women will show so much love to their men, but they will still find it difficult to reciprocate the love. It is complex to me.

Also, I still don’t understand why some men cheat. I think African men are born to cheat, they see it as a norm. As a woman, if you really want to keep your home, you just have to ignore their actions. If you don’t want to ignore them, they may just start behaving somehow. Another complex thing about them is that they find it difficult to support their wives financially and emotionally. They prefer hanging out with their friends to staying with their women.

READ ALSO: Dealing with anxiety, others in sexual relationship (2)

I don’t understand the need to eat from my meal – Alaka Oluwatosin

Well, overtime, I have come to realise that women are intricate beings that should be handled with care. I never seem to understand why they always feel the need to eat from my plate every single time. I mean, we ordered exact same thing off the menu. Another thing that leaves me astonished is how a woman will make you angry and then get angry that you are angry, so you have to apologise for being angry because it made her angry. On the other hand, she may try to make you angry and get angry that you are not angry.

Cheating on their beautiful wives – Preda Osadebe

I don’t understand why men who have beautiful wives still want concubines. The funny thing is that it is not only rich men that do it; even many poor men, who can barely take care of their wives, still crave for other women. They have other women they date.

Another example is young men, who can’t feed themselves; some of them practically live on their women. Despite this, they will still have other women outside. I think it’s just something that is unique to men.

Regardless of their age and financial status, it seems men just have a nature that likes to cheat. I am not referring to men in general, but most of them are not faithful.

The victim card women play – Aderogba Adedeji

The victim card ladies play irritates me a lot and I don’t know why they do that. They sometimes find it hard to apologise even when they are at fault. I think their ego sometimes hinder them from saying sorry or even admitting that they are wrong. I wish to know the reason why they act the way they do; but I have realised that’s a mystery that is yet to be unravelled.

Their ego and cheating nature – Dada Olajumoke

Cheating is a recurring decimal in the society; it is even more prevalent now, most especially amongst married couples. This is not limited to men but women are also guilty of this immoral act. Inasmuch as it has been accepted to be a culture amongst men, either married or unmarried, it is not morally acceptable due to the consequences inherent in such acts. Aside from having children out of wedlock with a woman not properly wedded, contracting sexually transmitted diseases is also one of the consequences that may arise from that. Also, I don’t understand why men have ego issues. However, I’ll advise that men who have ego issues should be managed by their spouses.

Women not supporting women – Olusegun Anthony

Ladies need to appreciate themselves. For example, some women will hardly congratulate another woman for her success. Once they are not part of it, they would rather envy the woman that is successful. In an academic setting, when a lady graduates top of her class, her colleagues who are ladies may start a rumours that she slept with lecturers to attain that height. In an office setting, when a lady is promoted for her good works, her fellow women may say she is sleeping with the boss. Women need to support other women.

Why they take women for granted – Olushola Odunayo

One thing I don’t understand about men is why they take women that love them for granted; my question is why do they choose to be like that? Is it because they know the lady loves them more than they do, because they don’t love her in return, or because it’s hard for ladies to heal even after a heartbreak? It’s a pity because most guys that take women for granted always end up marrying women who won’t love them in return.

I don’t understand why they carry big bags – Ganiyu Olowu

First, l don’t understand why women carry big bags about. You see them with large bags containing only things known to them. Today, carrying a big bag is part of their fashion. I wonder why, so l need an answer to this.

Second, it equally baffles me why women don’t like their fellow women. Over the years, it’s been observed that women hardly support causes advanced by fellow women. In offices, social groups and business circles, women have been found to be strong supporters of men. Particularly, in politics, women don’t support their fellow women. One would expect women groups in Nigeria to stand up for some of our female presidential aspirants but I have not seen such conscious moves. Yet, we have more women in our country.

Lastly, I would want to know why some women would go to any length to use wigs. Many great women have stayed natural and still look beautiful.

Men don’t like saying sorry – Nike Oyewole

I don’t understand why men don’t to say sorry even when they are wrong. Another problem I have with them is their ego; they allow their ego to dictate their actions most times.

Women are very opinionated – Lesley Atusue

I still don’t understand why women do not welcome other people’s opinions apart from theirs. Also, I don’t know why they are quick to get angry. Sometimes, they take actions and get angry over their decisions later.

”Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]