Declutter your marriage, create space for a new beginning
We live in a stressful world because life is full of challenges and there are so many hard decisions that often overwhelm us, whether we are married or single. It is just as complicated as cluttering your lives with so many things and leaving no space for restoration in the end.

As you usher in a New Year in your lives and your marriage, there is no better time to take control of all the clutter in your relationships so that you can create space for a New Year and a new beginning too.

Declutter your hearts

The heart is the perfect place to start the process of removing the things you do not need in your marriage because the real act of marriage takes place in the hearts of two people. Perhaps your marriage has been in troubled waters and all seems so hopeless and too deep to be restored because your hearts are deeply hurt and torn apart from pains and unforgiveness.

A good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth that which is good; and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart brings forth that which is evil: for of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks (Luke 6:45).

Why not start again from the beginning and make that deliberate decision as you both usher in this New Year; declutter your hearts from all the pains and hurts of yesterday and usher in the much desired hope you have both been searching for.

Declutter your mind

The mind is the faculty of consciousness and thoughts, often cluttered with mind-bending opinions, decisions and dreams and also full of worries and fears; imprecise and wandering in different directions and achieving little or nothing in the end.

Perhaps you know that your mind certainly needs a break from making too many uncertain decisions in the coming year. Declutter and start prioritising, make a list of the things that are most important to you first and focus on achieving them rather than cluttering your mind with too many uncertainties. A great place to start is by writing everything you would normally store in your mind down in a book and cross them out as you accomplish them.

Declutter your habits

There are good and bad habits common to humans but the bad habits are the negative behaviour patterns. An unhappy marriage is toxic; when living with a spouse who has several complex habits, it makes it extremely difficult to enjoy a good marital relationship.

As you both count down to the New Year, perhaps there are several bad habits plaguing your marriage, why not think about them and pick at least one that you both have that is making it difficult for you to enjoy marital fulfilments. When you both make a decision to declutter them, you will be restoring the love and peace in your marriage again.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]