Things that can pose a challenge to couples’ sex lives (II)
Funmi Akingbade; [email protected]; 08034540594, 08156047309

Commit yourself to understanding your spouse and to helping them understand you. That is part of your life-long commitment to care for and treasure each other.

Always look out for how your partner will be best satisfied by employing ways to have sex that will re-energise your sex life. It is when couples unite sexually that one can say that their marriage is really living.

Recently, some British researchers asked 254 businessmen and women where they got their best and most creative ideas from outside of the office. Their top five ‘thinking zones’ are in the car, while socialising, while lazing around, in the toilet and after a good bout of lovemaking with their spouses. Whoa!

So, why limit your sexual experience, adventure and exploration to the same routine when there are lots of erotic, sensational and sensual sexual bouquets that you and your spouse could sample from?

READ ALSO: The best time to get pregnant (I)

In my quest to re-energise your beds, I am going to suggest special secrets that would certainly enliven your marriage and protect it from the troubles that an inactive sex life brings to couples.

When you have the gift of time, languishing in super sensory, soulful lovemaking can be a rhapsodic revelation…and a relationship booster. With sensual sex, it’s not all about where you and your spouse are going, but the process that gets you there.

When you slow down and attempt to delay your orgasm, you’re more focused on exploring every inch of each other’s bodies and savouring your time together. The emotional benefits are long-lasting too. Knowing that your partner cares enough to lavish their love on you for hours, and that you’re their number one priority, builds confidence and security. Your bond, in general, will be stronger because you’ve made the bedroom a place to enjoy each other –not just sexual, but a place where better life decisions are made due to the effect of sex on the mind and body. The effect of this kind of sex is that it helps to keep both partners fresh and satisfied.

Due to our day-to-day pressure and demands, sometimes, a quickie is highly recommended. This kind of sex is like an earthquake, an eruption and an internal unexplainable release. It gets one’s (especially the man) adrenaline rushing within a second and before you know it, it’s over in a flash, and leaves you extremely satisfied. Initiating a quickie can be the ultimate compliment a wife can give to her husband because it does not only show how deeply she desires him but understands that the sexual desire of her man is basically a matter of hormonal functions and regulations. It is also ‘ever-present.’ And this needs the physiological release. She is aware that when she maintains an enthusiastic sexual interaction in the marriage, her husband feels more secure, ready to face anything and looks at life from a better perspective.

In addition, when he’s had a stressful day, a fast and furious romp really takes the edge off. Put simply, sometimes, a husband wants to take their time and just wants to get their rocks off. When you can tell he’s in a horny, hasty mood, don’t bother fully undressing. All you need for a successful speedy sex is to ‘be prepared.’ It’s your best friend when you don’t have time to get completely warmed up.

Come to think of it. Have you ever given it a thought that it would be easier to give a speech in the presence of a crowd of people than to help your wife reach orgasm first? Taking that plunge, it may be worth it. Experts say that watching a wife flow in the pleasure of orgasm is near the top of most men’s fantasy wish lists.

But it’s not just a very personal peep show; it’s a chance for the wife to teach her husband exactly how she likes to be fondled, caressed and put in the seventh heaven. Revealing to your husband how he can master your sexual areas is one of the most secretive and intimate things you can do together.

Anyone with a pulse would be unwise not to crave a hot and spicy sexual session. But sometimes, all you want is the sexual equivalent of ‘let’s just have fun; it may not be exciting, but it makes you feel so good.’ Married lovers have sex for a lot of different reasons. One of the reasons is to be soothed and comforted. Making each other feel loved and cared for is the most powerful way to bring the psychological and physical elements of your relationship together.

This type of sex is always recommended for couples facing one physical challenge or the other. In other words, sickness and physical challenges should not be strong enough to stop your sexual escapade.

For couples celebrating their honeymoon right now, please, this is when you should go wild, be uncivilised with each other. Don’t try to tame your passion. Awaken the sexual giant in you. This sexual giant is the raw, primitive kind of sex that makes the bedspring make rhythmic sounds and rattles bed frames.

This is the time you should practise all, go rear, go frontal, go down and make sure you leave no stone unturned. Let it be that when you make reference to the honeymoon experience, it would be with a satisfactory notion that you actually did justice to the time.

Basically, because honeymoon is purely a celebration of sexuality, you are not permitted to be shy during this time for any reason. When you need more, just grab your husband’s hands and wrap them around your waist – a cue that you want him to hold on and thrust – and he’ll answer your call. Keep your neck down. It’ll help you loosen up all the way down your spine, so you can have the best. Try this and send me a mail.

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Mixed reactions as Ajimobi introduces security levy in Oyo

Well, men generally are conquest–loving creatures, which is why they get so hot when their wives let them take over. If your husband feels like he’s at the top of his game, your action of surrendering to him is a huge turn-on. Wives, please, during foreplay, open your legs and hold the headboard or pillows so your whole body is exposed to him. Then invite him to slide in.

Meet his thrusts halfway by rocking your pelvis upward against his and lifting your legs in the air with your feet spread wide apart. This gives him room to manoeuvre his body and alternate between deep thrusting and short pumping. Then drape your legs over his shoulders so he can grab your ankles and position them where he wants them. Tell him you want him to assist you reach orgasm. It means you want him running the show because he has the skills to get you there.

Wives, gone are the days when you are only to be seen and not be heard. It is no longer a man’s world; it is our world. He’s been doing all the work lately. At this point, you take the reins. But a truly titillating takeover has to be authentic and not staged. So, aggressively take over. This is the time. If you don’t, some other lady may and I’m sure you don’t want that. All you just need to do is send him an SMS and say, “I’d love to be in charge tonight.”

Then gently grab his organ and rub it around your G-spot as if you are so sure of what you are doing. He’ll happily submit to your sexy request, this is one of the many best measures to prevent the kind of havoc sexual challenges may bring to the bed of married couples.

However, I would love to inform married lovers that they should not neglect their bodies, especially those parts that are essential to a healthy and balanced sex life. As I have found out, only very few couples remember to keep such sensitive parts in good shape. The majority do not care much for the condition of the basic tools that are vital to the attainment of a fulfilled married life. When these areas are neglected, it poses a big challenge to good sexual fulfilment over time.

When all a couple ever cares about is getting satisfied sexually, and no one seems to consider the fact that the same organs that have helped them to achieve sexual enjoyment ought to be serviced regularly, they may find it difficult to have lasting sex.

The breasts, for example, are one of the most prominent sex organs of the human body. A wise woman would do well to keep them clean, well-packaged and closely examined at all times.

Sometimes, a reddish bump may appear on a breast. If it does not grow bigger and its colour does not change, then you should consider it harmless. But if it is, at least, the size of a pencil eraser and contains two or more shades of red, or has a raised rough border, it is better to have it checked out by a dermatologist because it could turn out to be skin cancer.

If a woman feels sharp pain in her breasts, she shouldn’t panic. A sharp, localised pain is likely to be triggered by recent trauma to the breast. It is possible that her man played rough during foreplay and he may have injured that part of her body without realising it. The pain should reduce without any medication being taken. If the pain persists after some days, she should see her doctor.

During foreplay, you may observe your nipple dripping yellowish or whitish fluid. There is no cause for alarm. A harmless swelling, which contains fluid that may drain out when your breast is squeezed to a point, may be the cause.

Also, it may be caused by a congested milk pipe, which naturally goes away on its own. Sometimes, couples may notice that the nipples and areolas of their partners are so much darker and larger than expected.

Note that the size and colour of the nipple may depend on your genes. Some women inherit tiny nipples with pale areolas; others have red, purplish, or even black ones that may span as wide as four or more inches across. Besides, sometimes ladies’ breasts may likely not get bigger than they are, except in pregnancy or when they add extra kilogrammes because some women hit their mammary maximum in their teenage years, while others keep expanding well into their early twenties. If your breasts have increased in size within the past 12 months, they may not have finished developing. But if the size of your brassieres hasn’t increased for a few years, you’ve probably already hit your genetically predetermined peak.

It is dangerous to neglect the vagina, which is, perhaps, the most important female sex organ. If you wish to prolong the life span of this fantastic and most expensive tool, then take very good care of it. Sometimes, the vagina hurts during and after sex. Naturally this is caused by vaginal dryness. For this reason, husbands should ensure that their wives are fully aroused before they proceed to penetrative sex.

Also, they could try a water-based lubricant on their wives. On the other hand, the constant use of condoms may also cause pain during intercourse. But if you’ve determined that none of these is the cause of your discomfort, see your family doctor. You may have an infection.

Sometimes when the vagina is unusually dry, some experts believe that it can be caused by stress. The chances are that the wife may simply be dehydrated — possibly because of excess anxiety, worries and work. Naturally when a lady is stressed out, she is usually not thinking about getting enough fluids into her system. And she might be drinking too much of other beverages, such as ‘soft drinks.’

Questions and answers

Hypertension, medicine and sex

Each time I take some cough medication, I notice that my blood pressure rises some hours after sex. Is it the sexual act or the cough syrup that makes me feel this uncomfortable?

Mr. Billy Emmanuel

Cold and flu medications that contain decongestants are one of the several classes of medications that cause blood pressure to rise, with or without sex. Others include some pain relievers, steroids, diet pills, birth control pills and some antidepressants. If you have high blood pressure, see your doctor for advice before taking those drugs.

Is talking dirty at old age a blessing?

My husband wants me to talk dirty during sex. He is in his late 60s now but nothing arouses him sexually like talking dirty. Initially I refused but I noticed that if I applied any other way to get him in the mood, it would not be successful. How do I start talking dirty at this age of my life? I do not want to seek sex outside my marriage. By the way, I am 52 years old.

Married but not happy.

Well, it is good you asked because it will also be of help to others. Simply put, many men at this stage are looking for something new, stimulating and attractive. Talking dirty is just an act of stimulating arousal and good orgasm for some men. You can start slowly and improve on it. For instance, you can moan and let him know you like it. At times, you don’t need words to talk dirty to your man. When you’re making love to your man, show your appreciation with gasps and moans. As long as you go ‘aaah’ each time he thrusts you deep, it’ll give him the same arousal boost as dirty talk. It’s not always what you say but how you say anything sexy, so whisper it in his ears softly. It’s not always what you say to him to turn him on, but how you say it that makes all the difference. Just drop a few sexy words while biting his ear. Can you remember any situation that always turns both of you on? Perhaps, the time when he almost did three rounds, or the last time you gave him a good blow job. Imagining and recreating a sexy memory like the first time you had sex with him or letting him fondle your breasts while kissing them, can be extremely arousing for both of you. And while doing that, you can whisper things like: ‘You make me so wet, your shoulders look so sexy, it feels so big, I love the way you feel inside me, Ohh… don’t stop that! This feels so good.’ It’s all about keeping your home.

I was at a party recently where some friends were saying that early morning erection was not important to have a good sexual life, and that as you age, you should not look forward to experiencing morning erection anymore. Please, is this true?

Mr. Nonso Tochukwu

Early morning erection is an indication that all is well, although men have several night-time erections. On average, a sexually healthy man has three to five erections during a full night’s sleep, with each erection lasting 25 to 35 minutes. It is common for men to wake up with an erection, informally called ‘morning glory.’ This is in fact the last in a series of night-time erections. The cause of night-time erections is not fully understood. However, studies suggest they are closely associated with the phase of sleep known as REM (Rapid Eye Movement). This is when dreaming is most common. Whatever their cause, most sex therapists agree that night-time erections are a sign that everything is in working order. When men do not experience this, they need to visit a sex therapist.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]