What is the most memorable thing your partner has done for you?
Relationships are not just about receiving; they also require giving and making sacrifices. Such kindness and sacrifices don’t always go unnoticed. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians to share the most memorable thing their partners have done for them in their relationship or marriage.

He proposed with an expensive ring

Theresa Onwuegbuchi

The most memorable thing my partner has done for me was proposing to me in a unique place, with a very expensive ring and on a special day. He proposed to me right on the canopy walkway at a conservation centre in Lagos. It was truly a memorable day for me because I wasn’t expecting the proposal so it was a pleasant surprise. It happened less than a year ago. The diamond ring he proposed with was ordered from the US and I was astonished to discover that it was the most expensive gift I’d ever received in my life. He is the best man in the whole wide world and I’m endlessly in love with him.

She furnished my fashion shop

Opusunju Daniel

There was a time I needed to get a bigger place for my fashion brand as the business had outgrown where I was using before. After paying the rent which ran into millions of naira, I realised I needed a similar amount of money to furnish the place. I had planned to wait for six months before the launch of the new shop, but surprisingly, my woman told me she was going to pay for the furnishing of the place. Anytime I step into the office, I feel her presence; it has been amazing. I can never forget it because it was pretty expensive to furnish the place.

There was also a time she contacted my younger brother to give me a surprise on a special day for me.

He surprised me in the midst of chaos

Folasade Olaleye

Years have passed but I still remember each moment of that day as though it has taken a permanent space in my memory. I will never forget it. What a memorable day it was for me. I’m talking about September 20, 2016. Although, every day is memorable and every moment is awesome, that day was made very beautiful for me by my wonderful man. At the time, I was working with a telecommunications company and something interesting happened on that day, which was my birthday, by the way. We had received a complaint from a customer about a fraud that was perpetrated using her account and mobile phone number. And coincidentally, I was the one who worked on her line when she came to complain that the line had been blocked. So the following day when I got a memo from my boss saying I needed to provide answers to an issue, I was put under a lot of stress and I totally forgot about my birthday. I didn’t know that my husband had taken my boss’ mobile phone number from my phone and called him to organise a surprise party for me. While I was down, some of my colleagues in the office persuaded me to have lunch with them. Then surprisingly, I saw my husband, my boss and my other friends at the venue, celebrating my birthday. Someone informed me that my sweetheart had organised the party for me. It was a wonderful birthday party organised without my knowledge and I received some fabulous gifts from people. So instead of receiving a query from my boss, to my surprise, I got an envelope (with money) as my birthday gift from him.

She gave me sa special gift on my birthday

Sheyi Owolabi

The most memorable thing my partner has done for me happened on my birthday this year. She had told me she was broke so I wasn’t expecting anything from her at all. Then surprisingly, that evening she came to visit me with a shopping bag filled with a lot of things. I had been saying I wanted to get a gift with a nice message on it. She really surprised me. When she gave me the gift, I was surprised and almost freaked out; it was very thoughtful of her.

He got a transfer from his office to be with me

Akinpelu Tomilayo

I will never forget how my partner pushed to get a transfer from his office in Lagos to Ibadan, Oyo State just to be close to me. It was particularly memorable because he left a better position in Lagos for the one in Ibadan. He believed that I was more important than any juicy position. That meant a whole lot to me.

She spent her savings on our vacation

Pamilerin Adegoke

There was a time I was really feeling down and my partner noticed it. Before then, we had always talked about going on a vacation to somewhere nice within Nigeria. She went ahead to book us a flight and make hotel reservations for us to spend a week in Abuja so that I could take my mind off some things at the time.

Why it still means so much to me is because at the time, she was still an undergraduate getting pocket money from her parents. I was impressed because she was able to save the money and also felt I was deserving of her savings. I felt happy to know that she could make those sacrifices to make me happy.

He travelled a long distance to see me

Adebayo Olubunmi

It was during the year I had my National Youth Service Corps programme. I was serving in Osun State at the time. He came all the way from Ekiti State to Osun, with a big sack filled with food items. I felt loved and appreciated so much. Coincidentally, I fell ill that night and he was going up and down in the middle of the night to take care of me. Even when I got better and told him that he could leave, he refused to leave immediately, saying that he would wait till when I got better. I can’t help but smile whenever I think about it.

She made the delicacy of my native land

Akorede Yusuff

It may sound funny, but it’s the most memorable thing she has done for me. There was a day I returned home from work and realised that my wife had prepared Ewedu and Amala; I was shocked and amazed.

I was surprised because she is from Delta State; and she had never tasted Ewedu and Amala until that day.

He borrowed money to buy drugs for me

Annabel Benedict Obi

There was a time I was very ill, but unfortunately my partner did not have money to buy drugs for me so he borrowed money from someone to buy drugs for me. He didn’t only buy the drugs; he also cooked and served me in bed. I felt very special and had to cry. I was so happy because he did what he would ordinarily not do just because of me. I knew that he detested borrowing money from people, but he had to go the extra mile to ensure that I was taken care of.

She helped me out in a tight situation

Oluwatobiloba Adekunle

It all happened when I was trying to get my passport; and getting a passport in Lagos was hellish. If I were to get it in Lagos, I would have had to wait for some months; but I needed it urgently. The interesting thing she did was that she helped me to find out how I could get it done faster. Eventually, I had to travel from Lagos to Akure, Ondo State to get it, even though it was more expensive there. She then decided to pay the balance after talking to the person in charge. I was surprised.

It still remains indelibly printed on my mind even though we have parted ways.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]