Ways couples can have a hot, erotic sex life (3)
Funmi Akingbade; [email protected]; 08034540594, 08156047309

Just as there are many routes to a particular location, so also are many routes to a hot sex life. Learn new ways of touching; if you just grab your partner the same way every time you want sex, you’re going to quickly become boring to her. Touching can be healing and when you understand that touching affectionately can enhance closeness and trust, you’ll see more passion develop in your relationship.

Be open to new experiences, so go ahead and experiment.

You may even surprise yourself. This is one way to explore your sexuality; your own special knowledge of what turns you on as you won’t know unless you try. Passion soars high to an unimaginable dimension when spouses validate one another; so, give compliment, then feedback, then a compliment. ‘You’re a gorgeous lover.’ ‘Really.’ ‘Yes, could I ask you something? When you kiss my breasts, be more gentle because my nipples are made raw by your beard and teeth, have you forgotten you are not meant to bring out breast milk? You are so remarkable.’

[READ ALSO] Tradermoni: Presidency knocks Southern, Middle belt leaders over attack

Learn how to kiss in different ways, on the lips, manhood, clitoris and breasts. Be a good kisser. Kissing promotes intimacy, which promotes passion. A deep kiss can express deep love, so don’t underestimate its power.

The fleeting touch of the lightest kiss can have more meaning than a big, sloppy wet one. Experiment with your kisses; go light, firm, lick, and tickle, then suck deep. Have real sex; don’t make pornography your yardstick as movie industry makes people think that passionate sex happens instantly with three minutes of foreplay and simultaneous orgasms. Pornography is even worse. Nobody could possibly be comfortable in some of those positions, let alone feel aroused. Never make your bed a stage, one way to spoil a passionate sex is to focus on performance.

If you are worried about yourself, how you move, what you look like, whether you are pleasing your spouse like an expert or not, you’re focusing too much on you and not enough on your spouse, and this makes your performance suffer. Instead, enjoy each moment of the experience as it unfolds.

Focus on the beautiful touches and the amazing sight [for instance, you can wonder in amazement how your husband’s manhood stands rigid at erection or praise the way your wife’s vagina swallows up your penis completely]. Make sure passion is your focus, not your performance. Explore the erotic information, this is different from pornography. Pornography serves one purpose: to excite the viewer. Erotic informative movies, photos, stories, and poems go further. Erotic material explains why someone feels the way they do. Emotions such as love, longing, and passion are expressed.

To have passionate sex, you need to take your time and build the excitement. Arousal leads to better orgasm. The passion that you see in the movies is choreographed as carefully as any dance. Choreograph your own love to whatever rhythm you wish for more explosive orgasms. Make it a habit to respect each other. Do you know that just a few negative comments could cause a woman to have difficulty in having orgasm, or a man to lose his erection? No matter how strong or self-confident they may seem, people are very vulnerable about their sexuality and sexual organs. In a culture where people are expected to be naturally good lovers, sexual confidence is actually quite low. Help build your partner’s sexual confidence at all times in an open, loving, and respectful manner.

It is very important to have sex regularly; regular sex is a little exercise that is good for your relationship, not only because it keeps your love glowing. Research has shown that couples that have regular sex look, on average, 10 years younger than their peers. Regular sex enhances sound sleep, diminishes pain, reduces stress, improves your mood and balances your hormones.

Sex is more than body parts and friction; think of lovemaking as a skill. There is always something new to learn. Married couples should always know that being a good lover should come naturally, especially when they relax but more also when they learn. Passionate sex is a journey and not a destination. Sex may not always be about orgasm at the end but about the experience that you gain on the way just like a good road trip. Getting to your destination is more than half the fun.

This is because sex has the potential to be the most profoundly satisfying part of a marriage; its place and position can never be substituted. Sex is a mysterious and sacred act that brings a couple together in ways that are beyond description. Sometimes words fail when I try to describe the oneness that a husband and wife feel after giving their bodies to each other in erotic ways.

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Court okays trial of Fani-Kayode, Abaribe, others’ over Kanu’s escape

Whenever I teach couples about sex in conferences or in my office, the atmosphere in the room changes because of its uniqueness. Some couples cannot wait to hear me talk openly about a topic that is often not discussed. Some are very curious while others are very sceptical. To them, the topic is forbidden, unmentionable and a taboo, something not to be discussed in public.

However, not until married couples embrace the fact that in their union there is no substitute for sex, their marriage will still be affected in a negative way. Study has discovered that married couples who embrace sex with a positive attitude and place sex in its rightful position in the union have the best, most satisfying life together. They enjoy sex more often and have the highest levels of physical and emotional fulfilment. Eighty-eight per cent of such couples are healthy. I am sure you want to know why.

Having sex and orgasm increases the levels of the hormones – oxytocin – in the body and this helps couples bond as they build trust. A recent evaluation of 59 pre-menopausal women before and after passionate sex with their husbands found that the more sexual intercourse they had, the higher their oxytocin levels.

Oxytocin allows us to feel the urge to nurture and to bond. Higher oxytocin levels have also been linked with a feeling of generosity. That explains why the husband can release any amount of cash to their wives whenever they are sexually fulfilled. Therefore, if you are feeling suddenly more generous towards your spouse than usual, oxytocin may be in the air.

Boosting self-esteem and immunity is one of 237 reasons people have sex, as observed by sex therapists. Good sexual health may mean better physical health. Having sex once or twice a week had been linked with higher levels of an antibody called immunoglobulin A or IgA, which can protect you from having cold and other infections, and help you sleep better. The oxytocin released during orgasm improves sleep, according to research. In addition, getting enough sleep has been linked with a good sex.

On the average, the human heart beats 70 times per minute but during orgasm, the heart races at 115 beats per minute, which puts the heart in a better, healthier position. During sex, the body makes use of 100 muscles to produce orgasm while it takes 17 muscles to smile. This indicates that those muscles are not only active but do not depreciate.

Brilliant sex produces satisfying orgasm; this orgasm releases chemicals that curb appetite, so high-quality sex helps spouses to lose weight.

Anytime, any day, sex relieves stress. A big health benefit of sex is that it lowers blood pressure and reduces stress. Married women who had intercourse had better responses to stress than those who engaged in other activities or abstained from sex. Frequent sexual intercourse has been associated with lower diastolic blood pressure. One way to make your wife look healthy and less stressful is to give her a hug after sex as this drastically removes constant nagging headaches, makes the skin glow, makes her cope with life issues better, makes her more accommodating, and willing to help. It also makes her warm, tender, affectionate and caring. It helps her to be a better cook.

Do you know that just 30 minutes of sex between couples can burn 85 calories or more? Sex is a great mode of exercise. It improves cardiovascular health. When some older couples worry about the effect of the energy expended during sex and that it could cause stroke, I tell them that it is not so because scientists have not been able to associate frequent with stroke. Also having sex twice or more a week reduces the risk of fatal heart attack by half in men, compared with those who have sex less than once a month. Cold shower can increase the production of sex hormone in men and women. Having sex in the shower is not only romantic but medicinal.

Sex reduces prostate cancer risk. Frequent ejaculations and not masturbation-induced ones, especially in men above 20 years of age, may reduce the risk of prostate cancer later in life, Australian researchers reported in the British Journal of Urology International.

READ ALSO: Erectile Dysfunction and Infertility

Sex strengthens pelvic floor muscles. For wives, doing a few pelvic floor muscle exercises known as Kegel during sex offers a couple many benefits. Men enjoy more satisfaction, women enjoy more pleasure, it strengthens the area and helps minimise the risk of incontinence, backaches and hysterectomy later in life. To do a basic Kegel exercise, tighten the muscles of your pelvic floor, as if you are trying to stop urine flow. Count to three, then release.

My husband wants me to say things to arouse him

My husband is an introvert and over the years, our marriage has suffered for lack of good frequent sex. It bothers me that we do not have a very good sexual relationship. I tried seducing him and looking sexy, but he insists that I should learn erotic words that will stimulate him and change our dull sex life. Frankly, I am not cut out for this but from the look of things, it seems I have no choice. What are the likely words that can arouse a quiet man who does not even show emotions?

Mrs. Kehinde Okeowo

In many relationships, opposite temperaments normally attract. A quiet and easy-going man will mostly admire a blunt, outspoken and outgoing person. Maybe this is why he is making such demands. Many men in his category love validations and boosting of confidence; outspoken erotic words might be another subtle way you can help to validate himself. Do not allow the fact that he doesn’t show his emotions to disturb you. The next time you’re in bed with him or on the phone with him, you may say: I’ve been thinking long and hard about what I’m going to do to you tonight… or tonight I want you to touch me all over, or honey, I’m not wearing any underwear, just waiting for you to do justice to my vagina. You can say: I can’t wait for you to put it in deep, or I want you here right now because I am wet already. While having sex, you may say, ‘Baby, you feel so good in me that I feel like screaming’. Or you can say it will feel good to have sex in every room, can we try it out now? [But make such statements on weekends]. Other things you can say are: I’ve been waiting for this all day…please undress me… please talk into my ears because each time you do that, you make me feel so wet between my thighs. As simple as these words may appear, they have strong effects on the hearer and the good thing about a relationship that you work on is that after some time, you will develop your own words and improve on whatever you have learnt over time. Believe it or not, this will improve your sex life.

Are there reasons why a man will be urinating during sex?

Hi Funmi, I have a big problem. I have been to the hospital but it seems the treatment is not helpful. There is a way I urinate nowadays that is scary; it happens after I treated staphylococcus. Although, it was not the first time I contracted the disease and had to use medications. The urine can come anytime, anywhere and anyhow. I have noticed that whenever I want to ejaculate, urine comes out instead of sperm. Most times, the urine can even mix with a small amount of sperm or small urine mixing with large amount of sperm. This started when I started having sex with my neighbour’s friend in my area. Although I’m married, my wife always denies me of sex in order to punish me. So, I resulted to having sex with anyone available.

Indifeya Christopher

Hi Mr. Christopher, two wrongs cannot make a right and your approach at getting even with your wife does not seem to be the best approach to be employed; however, having uncontrollable urination is an indication of a lot of things. And there are also reasons why such happens. For instance, it might just be that you have put too much stress or pressure on your pelvic area and when activity such as bending, lifting, or coughing puts too much pressure on the bladder, it could make your bladder to leak anywhere. Then when this is not handled well, it could degenerate to having an urge to urinate uncontrollably. This is caused by the bladder contracting when it shouldn’t, which triggers a sudden and overwhelming need to urinate. The feeling is so intense that it’s hard to make it to the bathroom in time. This will definitely make you urinate anywhere anytime and anyhow.

When this continues untreated, it may lead to urinary incontinence, which happens when you’re unable to completely empty your bladder and you leak unexpectedly and uncontrollably. Although you may have been treated for staphylococcus infection before, I would suggest you still go for a comprehensive laboratory examination to detect any other infection and get appropriate treatment for staphylococcus. I would also want you to consider your prostrate health because in men, urinary incontinence can be as a result of an enlarged prostate and also diabetes.

Pending the time, you will get adequate medical treatment, try to control your fluid intake during the day and cut back on liquid intake a few hours before bed or sex time. If that helps, stick with it. But don’t restrict yourself too much, you could become dehydrated. Not drinking enough fluids can lead to complications such as bladder infections, which can make urinary incontinence worse.

Watch what you drink; soda and other carbonated drinks could make you urinate often. In fact, alcohol is a diuretic, it makes you pee more. Do not neglect Kegel exercises; they can help to boost the strength of pelvic muscles that help the bladder to hold urine. If after three to four weeks you still see urine mixing with your sperm, please see a certified medical practitioner.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]