Routes couples can re-design a hot, erotic sex life (2)
Funmi Akingbade

Close your eyes and let your imagination travel down memory lane when you both were still dating and confessing undying love for each other. You’ll feel all warm and fuzzy inside. You can choose to spoon either fully clothed or in the nude but refrain from sexual intercourse. This type of affectionate display is just meant to bring the two of you closer together.

On weekend days when you both are not under any pressure to go to work or attend occasions, just lie together on the bed or whatever feels comfortable for you and look into each other’s eyes. Don’t talk; just watch each other in silence. It might feel uneasy at first, [because according to research, married couple hardly look into each other’s eyes as they used to while newly married] you might be shy about it, or feel exposed, out in the open, but it’s a great exercise for real bonding on a subconscious level also. Doing this, you and your partner will soon rediscover the richness of your unspoken communication and the way your eyes speak to each other without uttering one single word.

There are varieties of this. Husband, you can sit with your back against the wall of your room or a garden chair and have your wife put her head on your chest and wrap her arms around you. Share this embrace for few minutes. Close your eyes, listen to each other’s breathing, feel each other’s warmth, feel your hearts beat. She can pass her fingers up and down your back, while you can stroke her shoulders, neck, face and hair. This mutual embrace sends the message of being reciprocally taken care of, which is a great deal as far as intimacy is concerned.

Husband, note that most time your wife put her head on your chest or shoulder and rub your back or body, she does not necessarily want sex but bonding and closeness. They want to feel you belong to them; they want to reassure themselves that such moment is exclusively for them and no one should share such moment with them.

Another variation of this is for husband to lie on his back on the bed and have his wife lower herself gradually on top of him, from head to toe. Don’t worry, it’s not uncomfortable, and it’s surprisingly efficient. Holding her whole body against yours, you feel like you are in control, and she’ll feel like she can depend on you no matter what.

The benefits are not only psychological, but physical because this position is extremely relaxing for the spine. This is not only a good roadmap to a splendid sex but eventually leads to good passionate sex.

Active penetrative sex can also be done while amusing your wife, you don’t have to be too serious; just start by gently pushing her against the wall, start kissing her quietly while placing your right hand on her thigh and slowly lifting it up till you could feel her soft inner genitals, then start massaging it slowly.

Then move your hand right deeper into her genital area, placing your thumb and index finger on the clitoris, making sure that the clitoris is in between your thumb and index finger, and continue with the massaging and while massaging the clitoris, your middle finger should be busy driving in and out of the inner genital in a smooth manner.

While still kissing her, you can slowly move her closer to the bed and on getting to the bed, gently push her on it, then pull away from her, go down a bit and pull her panties off. With your wet tongue, start licking the inner genitals, make her open her legs wide as your tongue keeps massaging her clitoris. Simultaneously keep on rubbing her clitoris till she feels like pushing you off.

While this is going on, you can then insert your middle finger deeper into her inner genital and finger her in a slow but romantic manner while your other hand should be tapping on her erect nipples. Then lift her up in a sitting position making her hold on your own genital and caress it or suck it.

All married couples should understand that during sex, both husband and wife should and must pay passionate and heart-warming attention to each other. Husbands, do not only be interested in the breast, nipples, vagina or the clitoris alone, but pay close attention to the whole-being of your wife, spirit, soul and body. Same goes for the wife, do not only be obsessed, preoccupied, infatuated and fanatical by the penis of your husband alone, by judging how big, small, large, long or short it is, but fix your heart on the complete man you married, spirit, soul and body.

In the moments of lovemaking, there is nothing more important than your eyes, your lips. The best sex happens when the world falls away and you are the only two beings that matter. And when the world really does fall away, you’ll be one being, delighting in each other’s bodies, minds, and souls.

Remember, do not limit your place of passion to the bedroom. Passion can take place in the living room, the kitchen, the pantry, the backyard of your apartment, inside a taxi/car, balcony of the holiday room, wherever you and your lover are fired up and off, make sure the fire does not get put off.

Be playful; sometimes sex can be serious, say, if you are making love for the first time after a stressful period, or when you’re just not in the mood. Make a funny sound, stick out your tongue to tease your lover and make sure your lovemaking expresses your feelings.

Love without feeling becomes mechanical, predictable and very unwelcoming over time. If you focus on technique instead of feelings, you can feel good, but you may not feel close. You may feel turned on, but you may not feel passion. Remind yourself why you are with your married lover over these years, what makes you care about him or her, and the best of him or her.

Don’t ever forget that innovation and novelty is a basic aphrodisiac for passion, libidoral desire ignites when the mind is curious. The excitement of new challenges, flowing into the old and leading into new pathways of ecstasy can be overwhelming. When your sexual script gets tired and desire fades, trying new ways to delight each other can amplify your appetite and your partner’s.

Simple changes can be stimulating, too. Try a new room, a new fragrance, or try a new touch, a new kiss, a new endearment, a new family planning method.

Don’t ever undermine the power of good health. Be healthy; strength, stamina, and flexibility all enhance the passionate experience. Steadily work towards boosting rounds of sex. Most people don’t give their sexual health any thought, but passion is in part dependent on how you take care of your body.

For men, your fitness affects your erections. When you work out, your body may create more testosterone. Your heart and vascular system are healthier, too, preserving erectile function. For women, your fitness affects your hormonal balance and mood. When you are stressed, your body produces too much cortisol, which affects estrogen. Fitness also improves serotonin, which picks up mood.

So, fitness is good for your “love muscles.” You’d be amazed what simply losing 5% of your body weight will do for all of these. You’ll have more energy for lovemaking. You’ll feel better about your body because there is a connection between diet and sex. So, make eating fresh, healthy foods a passion, and discover new depths to your enjoyment. Be clean, never be too lazy to get up and brush your teeth, shave, shower, use fragrance to the taste of your spouse, watch for little sharp things like unkempt fingernails. Be smooth, be touchable and flirtatious; say sexy, funny little things.

Like so many things that give rise to passion, lovemaking starts long before you end up in the bedroom. Saying something that only your partner would understand, placing your hand in an unexpected spot on your partner’s body, or looking into his or her eyes with fire can all signal your desire. Everyone loves to be wanted. Flirting lets your partner know just how much. If you want to receive, be willing to give, show interest and be interesting; passion goes beyond what happens in the bedroom.

It starts with what goes on between your ears. Be a good conversationalist and a better listener. Read, listen to current romantic movies, go to new joints in town together, try a new sport or get more involved in one of your partner’s passions. Make sure that whenever you want to say something, it is something valuable, this will make your partner want to be with you, close enough to hear it. The power of passion arises from sharing; the give and take in any relationship is the basis for its sweetness.

According to sexual researchers, all men want their scrotum and penis to be licked, sucked, gently and steadily played with, many want to experience the feel of an erection within the ridges of the breasts of their wives. I know this is one unfailing route to the heart of the husband that wife can experiment with.

Questions and answers

Do men develop breast cancer too?

I have been experiencing pain in my breast. A friend suggests I go for a breast examination, that men also develop breast cancer.

Jimmy Johnson

While it is rare, breast cancer does occur in men and is often diagnosed at a later age and stage than in women, say some experts. It can strike at any age but it is most often diagnosed among men at ages 60 to 70. However, breast cancer in men accounts for only one per cent of all breast cancer cases. There is little research into treatments for men with the disease. And most men with breast cancer have painless lumps that can be detected by touch, but the disease usually isn’t diagnosed until they develop soreness.

Her loss of weight has put me off sex

My wife is over sensitive to her body shape and look. She does all sort of things just to look sexy and in shape; she even rations the children’s meal even when they complain bitterly; as much as I do understand that she is doing all these for me but I must confess I am the type that loves a bit of good flesh on. Now she has got her desired shape but unfortunately, it has driven me off to the arms of someone else. She is too thin for my liking and looks a bit ugly, but I am afraid to tell her because it will devastate her. Each time I hold her in my arms, it is all bone and bone. Please, is fat all that evil; is there nothing good about it? I am not so comfortable with going out with other women, but she will give all reasons why she must not add even a little bit of fat.

Mehujoju Matins

It’s a funny thing that we so rarely think of fat as our friend, but ironically, fat does so much for us. Most of all, body fat keeps us warm, stores energy from food so we can use it later, and also protects our organs. Body fat also houses the chemical reactions that manage growth and the immune system. Within our fat, hormones and proteins relate with one another to keep the body running. In fact, fatty acids are part of the makeup of hair as they help give hair and our skin their glowing looks. So, we need a considerable amount of healthy fat to keep the system going. So, it is advisable to keep a considerable amount of fat in our body. This type of healthy fat can be got from fatty food items such as avocado pear, local pear and some converted fatty acids got from energy stored via un-used carbohydrate. So instead of you finding sexual pleasure in the arm of some other women, all you need do is to educate her on the importance of healthy and bad fat. When she loses more than enough, her hair start falling off and she will start emaciating. I am certain she will adjust knowing she is trying to keep fit for you.

The only family planning method my husband prefers always fails

The only family planning method my husband prefers always fails because his penis curves inwards almost making a big ’U’ shape. Even when he is fully erect and inside of me, I can feel the penis taking a ‘U’ shape instead of straightening up; the condom either tears off immediately he starts thrusting. I do not want another pregnancy. Can you advise on how to get the best result from the use of condom?

Mrs Emma Noel-Kelly

Condoms are about 85 per cent effective for birth control. With careful use, they are even more effective. I think the challenge here is not really about the curved penis but the choice of the condom. Since he has a peculiar shape challenge, it is important for him not to go for ‘a standard size that fit for all men;’ instead he should experiment with the extra-large condoms. Some condoms even come with a nipple in the end to hold the fluid when the man ejaculates while others have a rounded end. Besides extra-strength condoms are also available, these are not only stronger but are especially useful for challenged penises and for men who have problems with condom breakage. Do not buy condoms that are pre-lubricated. If the condom does not have a built-in nipple, leave about 1/2-inch of the condom free at the tip of the penis so that semen has a place to collect. And if you are too tight, make sure your husband uses an extra strength condom. Note that certain vaginal medications used to treat yeast infections can also weaken condoms.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]