If you had the power, what would you like to change about your life’s journey?
A motivational speaker, Roger Crawford, once said, “We are a product of the choices we make, not the circumstances that we face.” In life, some people sometimes wish they had made different choices in life. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians what they would change about their life’s journey if they had the opportunity to do so

I wish I pursued my dream of becoming a reverend father – Rolland Okereafor

As a child, I always nursed the dream of being a reverend father; but my father discouraged me. I was one of his favourite sons, so he always told me that he would love to see my children. If I was born in this generation; I would have held on to my dream of becoming a reverend father regardless of what my father said. But when I was a child, there was no way children of my generation could go against their parent’s wish. If I could turn back the hands of time, I would pursue my dream against my father’s wish. Marriage was not in my plan initially but I am happy now because at least my dad saw my son before he died.

If my only son walks up to me now and tells me he wants to be a reverend father, I would give him 100 per cent support.

I wish I could recover wasted years – Ganiyu Shittu

One major thing I would like to recover in life was the wasted years. I spent close to 12 years roaming the streets, doing nothing. I left my parents when I was in primary school because I was born into a polygamous home. My father married four wives, my mum was the second wife, and my parents never had a good relationship. My mum left the house with my sisters and brothers. Sadly, my mum eventually divorced my dad. I was left alone with my stepmothers and their children. I lacked adequate care as a child. These were the reasons why I wasted 12 years on the streets doing nothing. I would recover the time and the years I wasted. I am 38-years-old now.

I wish I didn’t engage in some activities as a young adult – Ayodeji Sunday

In the late 80s, I was a young adult. Having grown up in the metropolis of Ado-Ekiti, I was easily drawn into the glitz of parties. Having many female friends was what made such parties interesting, and I was gradually drawn into that. That track of life was characterised by treachery, pilfering and such vices. In no time, I started exhibiting these traits. I would sell goods in my father’s shop. I got introduced to strange street codes and allegiances. For instance, it was regarded as a sign of weakness and betrayal to tell on your friends, even if you knew what they were doing was injurious to themselves or others. I still do not know how I escaped smoking cigarette or Indian hemp, but I was deeply involved in abuse of alcohol. We reinvented bravery. We practically took some of those things we saw in movies into real life. Some of those things bordered on criminality. There are damages I still carry because of the misadventures of those days. I changed girlfriends like clothes. I believe I would have totally lost out on education if not for the love for education planted early in me by my father. Looking at things in retrospect, I wish I had not trodden those paths; maybe, I would have completed my education earlier.

I would save the country from falling apart – Francis Asika

I always ask God to give me the grace to overcome every challenge that comes my way. Human beings don’t actually have the power to change some circumstances that surround them at will, for example, no one can choose their parents.

However, if I had the power to change any situation around me; I would change the structure of the Nigerian government. I would improve on the system of governance and judicial system because these issues affect me and other citizens of the country.

I would change the situation right from the point where things began to fall apart in the country and the centre could no longer hold.

I wish I was born in Canada – Akinola Shittu

I would prefer to be born in a country like a Canada because of the situation of things in Nigeria. It is always good to be in a very healthy environment as a child, where your interest is protected. I would wish to live in an ideal society.

I wish I played volleyball – Ibiloye Oluwakemi

I wish I was involved in sports, maybe volleyball, in addition to my education, but my mother used to prevent me from engaging in such activities because she felt I would not concentrate on my education. Looking back now, I realise it would have been an added advantage because it would have made me tour round Nigeria and beyond. Also, it would have made me healthier, more friendly and bold rather than being timid as I am now.

I wish I built a relationship with God early in life – Blessing Omenmah

If I had the opportunity to change my life’s story, I would build a relationship with God early in life. I realise I was ignorant of God’s purpose for my life; so if I had discovered the purpose of my existence early in life, I wouldn’t have wasted my time wandering about.

I am still trying to discover myself at this stage of my life and it shouldn’t be so. Regardless of the mistakes I have made, I am still hopeful that there is light at the end of the tunnel. Also, growing up as a child, I wanted to be an actress, but my mum used to beat me anytime I imitated an actress. She was against it because she wanted me to concentrate on my education.

I would have loved to further my education – Miracle Samuel

If I had the opportunity to turn back the hands of time, I would further my education. I was not able to further my education beyond secondary school because my parents could not afford to send me to the university. I am presently into business, but I am working under someone. My dream is to own my own business and become independent.

I wish I built a healthy relationship with my dad before he died – Atikpe Oghenefejiro

I was dying to have this really close relationship where I could talk to my father about anything and everything just like most of my friends did with their own fathers, but it didn’t seem to work out. Meanwhile, I was aware he had issues that were bothering him, but he always claimed that everything was okay and he was fine. I needed a platform to really talk to him about it because I felt that if I did, he would really open up. Last year, I was too nervous and couldn’t wait to get done with my school exams so I would go back home to talk to him. I was ready to take this bold step to establish the close relationship I always craved for. But I got the sad news that he had passed on; this happened few days to my exams. I felt really bad, if I had the power, I would have turned back the hands of time. I would have done this early enough. I had to learn the hard way. I never had the chance to express myself to him. I learnt to do things early enough when it was necessary and not just when it was convenient for me. I also learnt to come out of my comfort zone to make things work out before it’s too late.

My past experience has shaped my choices – Adeola Sodamola

I wouldn’t want to change anything. Life, like we all know, is a journey and it’s a transition from one phase to another. Whilst on the journey of life, I have encountered lots of challenges and made so many mistakes. I regret some of the mistakes while some of them made me take better decisions subsequently.

At every phase, it was an experience, and like people say, experience is the best teacher. Well looking back now, I wouldn’t say I will like to change anything because at every stage in my life, I always try to be at my best self. So my past experiences, decisions and reactions were based on what I assumed were good for me. I couldn’t have made any better choice at that time. I also assume that such past experiences have shaped my present choices, decisions, actions and reactions and have made me a better person.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]