Should couples keep secrets from one another?
TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN writes about the merits and demerits of couples hiding secrets from each other

Before Mrs Gladys Okon got married to her husband a few months ago, she told him she had a 14-year-old son which was a product of an affair she had while in her teenage years.

She said it would be hard for anyone to know that she had once given birth due to her flat tummy.

Okon told our correspondent that though it was a tough decision to make, it was a wise one.

She stated, “It took me a lot of courage to open up to him and the support of my mentor, who encouraged me that keeping secret is not healthy for any relationship, especially marriage. When I told my husband about it, to my greatest surprise, he was already aware of it from the research he carried out on me. Imagine what would have happened if I didn’t tell him.”

Another woman, Mrs Doris Akagbo, supported Okon’s position, noting that that it is bad to hide things from one’s spouse especially if one’s partner is bold enough to ask one about it.

“It is wrong to keep any secret in a relationship. It is important to let it out. It is worse if one has to tell a lie about a thing, especially the ones one’s spouse asked to know about. I can never keep any secret from my husband because doing such usually backfires,” Akagbo said.

Also, a married man, Mr Yomi Nathaniel, said he discovered that there was no need to keep anything from one’s partner after the occurrence of an event before they got married.

Nathaniel told SUNDAY PUNCH that while he was still courting his wife, he had an affair with another woman and he told his fiancée. He said that act made her to trust him so much.

He added, “There was a lady I slept with when I was still courting my wife. When I told her, she was upset at first but later accepted my apology.

“She is my wife today and we have been married for about 29 years. I have never cheated on her neither do I keep secrets from her. That is the reason why she trusts me so much. She can vouch for me anytime. She has access to my phone and I have to hers too.

“The recipe to a healthy and lasting relationship or marriage is not to keep secrets. People keep secrets in order to avoid doubts but the best thing is to come out plain to one’s partner. In fact, my wife is my best friend; so, there is no way I can hide things from her.”

However, another married man, Mr Francis Unyime, said there was no big deal in keeping secrets from one’s spouse, especially if such information could cause distrust among partners.

He said, “It is okay to keep some information away from one’s spouse especially the one that will not, in any way, add value to the relationship. Also, I don’t disclose issues that will bring about mistrust with her.”

A teacher, Mrs Grace Akintola, who aligned with Unyime’s position, said she would necessarily not keep secrets but if she knew it would be too much for her spouse to bear, she would rather not disclose it to him.

“I can keep secrets from my husband especially the ones that I know that he cannot bear emotionally. We always want to be open to our partners but when we know that it would bring about discomfort to our spouses, we better keep it. For me, I simply adhere to the word that wisdom is profitable to direct,” she told SUNDAY PUNCH.

But a mother of one, Mrs Taiwo Oni, believed that though one should be transparent with one’s partner, there was a need to always apply wisdom.

For another married man, Mr James Eso, disclosing one’s ‘side chick’ to one’s wife is impossible.

He said, “Keeping my side chick is a lifetime secret I can never tell my wife. I even saved her name in a way that she will never decode. Also, I have a password for my phone. I need to enjoy life small now. Once something is called a secret, it should remain so.”

On his part, Mr Samuel Dogo said he wouldn’t reveal some secrets to his wife in order not to leave her heartbroken. “I will rather keep the secrets to myself than to break her heart and give room for further suspicion,” he stated.

In her contribution, a relationship expert, Mrs Olabisi Soetan, told our correspondent that on no account should couple keep secrets from each other, saying doing such would only further hurt one’s partner.

She said, “Your partner will be hurt and wounded when they find out that you kept something away from them. Imagine knowing from an outsider that your spouse has a house somewhere? It would naturally hurt. Keeping secrets should not be encouraged among spouses at all.

“When you have a good union and share sincere friendship with your spouse, you won’t keep anything from him or her. Also, when you love your spouse, you won’t be insincere with them.”

Soetan, who said it was possible for one’s mind to skip certain things, believed that one would definitely still talk about it if it was not deliberately kept from one’s partner.

The relationship expert urged partners to learn to talk about their past mistakes as such would stimulate their relationships.

According to her, no matter how seemingly little or intangible an issue is, it must be brought to the attention of one’s partner.

She added, “There should be no secrecy between the husband and wife. The husband should bare his mind to his wife and likewise the wife to her husband. No man is an island of knowledge.

“It is said that two heads are better than one and the best person that can offer better or the best advice is one’s partner, being a stakeholder in the union.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]