Should husbands pay their housewives salaries?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Being a housewife is not easy as it involves taking care of the home and doing a lot of laundry, cleaning and cooking. And if a couple has children, the job of a housewife is made much harder. For some time now, there have been debates about whether husbands should pay their housewives salaries for the job they do or not, considering how some of them sacrifice their careers or dreams for their families. Saturday PUNCH asked a cross-section of Nigerians if they think that housewives should be paid salaries by their husbands

Housewives should be paid salaries – Yinka Adeosun

It is not a bad thing for husbands to pay their housewives salaries. Placing a wife on salary would enable her to meet some personal needs or basic needs in the house without having to wait for the husband. Since she is not leaving the house very early like other career women; she will have adequate time to take care of the home.

I have a friend who asked his wife to stop working because her salary wasn’t commensurate with what she was putting into her job at the time. After she stopped working, she had enough time for herself, the children and her husband. And they are doing very fine. On a personal note, I pay my wife monthly, so I think that housewives should be paid salaries.

Being a housewife is a full-time job – Okikioluwa Adewale

Being a housewife is a full-time job; most housewives don’t have the time to pay attention to any other thing apart from their family, especially if they have kids. Women need to stay beautiful and maintain themselves for their husbands; therefore, a wife will always need money to take care of her physical needs. Apart from her personal needs, she may also have younger siblings and old parents that she must have to take care of. It is important for a woman to have some money in her personal account as savings; this is necessary so that the man won’t see her as a liability.

Finally, being a housewife is a full-time job; her husband can be seen as her boss. The time she spends at home taking care of her children and the man could easily be used in building her career. I believe it is important for housewives to be paid salaries.

It should be discussed during courtship – Timothy Ope

When it comes to financial matters like this in marriage, I believe that partners should discuss such things or sort out issues like this before marriage. If it has been discussed and agreed upon during courtship, then it is fine, provided that it doesn’t put the husband under financial pressure. However, it should be a flexible agreement. If the man is under too much financial pressure, it may affect him mentally.

Housewives also need money of their own – Oluwafemi Bello

I believe it is appropriate for husbands to pay their housewives salaries. There are some little expenses that housewives incur daily and they can’t always demand money from the man or ask him for money all the time. For this reason, husbands should pay their wives salaries; even the salaries are not too much.

It depends on the situation of things in the home – Jide Yusuf

Personally, I believe husbands should encourage their wives to stay at home and look after the children instead of working. How much are they even going to pay the woman in the labour market? The future of any marriage is the children; and taking care of the children is a full-time job on its own. Husbands should therefore pay their wives salaries because they are actually working.

However, if the marriage is still young and they don’t have children yet, the woman is supposed to be working. Also, when the children are grown or in secondary school, then she should not be a housewife anymore because she has her career to build. If she has a very good job, then the man can be spared; but if her salary is not much, then the man should still support her by paying her salary monthly.

No need for salary if there is love – Adenike Fagbemi

If a wife is employed as the husband’s worker then she is entitled to be paid salary, but if they are bonded by genuine love then I don’t think any salary should be paid to her.

The word – salary – sounds rather too formal for a family setting. A man can give his wife allowance for the housekeeping but salary, no; I don’t think it makes sense. Being a housewife doesn’t mean the woman is jobless, it is all about mutual understanding. Some people can say a woman should be paid salary because of the domestic chores she does, but a man can also assist his wife in doing such chores.

A responsible man knows when to assist his wife – Happiness Obimdi

In my opinion, this kind of decision should be based on the discretion of the man. A responsible man should know when to assist his wife financially. If there is a logical reason for her to be a housewife, then the man owes her more than just a salary but care, support and a lot of respect too. Any woman that sets aside her personal interest and growth to nurture her home is selfless so she deserves to be cared for.

Men should see it as compulsory – Nike Akilapa

Husbands should pay salary to their wives if they are housewives in the form of housekeeping allowance; this will go a long way in making the woman live a more comfortable life. Financial needs may arise unexpectedly in the home. So, if the husband is not around, the financial vacuum will be filled.

Women have needs, so it is necessary – Abiola Osikoya

It’s necessary for a man to pay his wife salary if she is a housewife because she has needs. A woman will need to make her hair, buy personal stuff for herself, like underwear and so on.

She may also have younger ones looking up to her for financial assistance which she has to do. She needs to get paid because domestic chores can be very strenuous.

Yes, if the husband is financially capable – Elisbeth Tam Ayetan

In my opinion, if the husband feels he is capable of doing it, definitely he should. However, in a situation where the husband’s salary is not enough to feed the family, he shouldn’t think of doing such; this is because he might be broke someday.

For example, for a man who works as a manager of a mini-mart and receives N35,000 as salary; with the money, he will still have to feed his wife and children and cater for the needs of the family. After doing all these, how much will he be left with? If you compare this to a man who receives much more, definitely, the man that receives much more will be able to pay his wife salary if she is a housewife.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]