Define your marriage – are you happy or miserable?
Elizabeth Badejo

Wow! It’s October already, two more months to Christmas as we begin to count down to another new year. At the beginning of the year, you made many promises of things you would like to do and set goals, perhaps some were realistic and you have ticked some items on the list already while others may cross over to next year’s list.

At work, you may have also set goals to cross a few hurdles, have more qualifications, become more diligent, be a good team player and get the promotion you have desperately been aiming for. Perhaps you’re often short on time but long on your aspirations to pursue success.

Take a moment this weekend with your spouse and take some time out to refine your marital relationship; it’s as easy as being honest with yourselves.

The question is simple: Are you happy or miserable in your marriage?

Use a holistic approach

Once upon a time, you met someone whom you were convinced was the right spouse for you and you both strived to live happily together. As beautiful as happily might have sounded back then, there was a lot you both needed to put in place to sustain the kind of fulfilment you were both aiming for. Marriage certainly deserves a holistic approach; it is a combination of efforts from your minds, bodies, emotions and spirits to make it a success in practicality.

Review & revisit

Just like everything else that is important to you, your marriage needs to be reviewed periodically and systematically. It is a productive way to revisit the vows you both made. Life is challenging enough but when you are able to challenge smaller obstacles early in your marriage, you will be able to prevent them from exploding into unmanageable issues. When you give your marriage a total check-up, you will both realise where you need to score yourselves high or improve as individuals and as a couple.

Drop the same old baggage

Are you the kind of woman who enjoys stressing on the same old conversation year in, year out and your spouse really hasn’t changed his position on that matter? You are continuously frustrated and got yourself depressed in the pursuit of ‘your way or no way,’ while your husband has remained indifferent despite your tantrums.

Forgive if you’ve been hurt

Marriage is not for saints; vows are made by ordinary people with questionable and unquestionable characters, therefore there must always be room for blunders, and forgiveness certainly should not be based on negotiation. Why would you allow yourselves to be tormented about the past when you have the power within yourselves to forgive as only through forgiveness will you truly find the peace you need to rekindle your marriage and set yourself free?

Speak words of encouragement

Perhaps you are constantly watching out for those silly mistakes your spouse makes so that you can constantly humiliate them. Have you ever heard the adage that says, “If you keep cutting your husband down to size, you will end up with a very small husband?” Perhaps you have suddenly stopped sharing words of encouragement after several years in your marriage because your spouse no longer deserves it. If you both put the same efforts you put in your career to encourage yourself into your marriage, mistakes will often mean an opportunity to refuel and refresh your love always.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]