What is the greatest risk you have taken for love?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

When people are in love, it is likely that in the course of the relationship, they have taken certain risks out of the love they have for their partner. Saturday PUNCH asked Nigerians about the greatest risk they have had to take for love.

I took my grandma’s money without permission…Ohiri Jennifer

There was a time I had to stay with my grandmother, and she was part of a contributory scheme with her friends at the time. She used to keep the money they had contributed with me because of the trust she had in me. There was a boyfriend I was dating at that time, who came from a poor family but had a bright future. I took part of the money my grandma kept with me and gave it to my boyfriend to use it to buy his West African Senior Secondary Certificate Examination form so that he could take the examination; he also used part of that money to buy food items and some other things. I did it because I knew his future was bright, but was from a family that didn’t have money. My intention was to pay back the money once my dad sent money to me but unfortunately, the money I expected from my dad did not come and I couldn’t replace my grandma’s money. So eventually, I got caught.

I gave all my money to a guy – Olawunmi Olakunbi Marvellous

The greatest risk I have ever taken for love was when I lied to my mum that I needed to pay some amount of money in school, despite knowing that she didn’t have enough money. She went out of her way to get the money for me. I gave all the money to a guy because I was in love with him.

I took a risk believing my partner would change – Yewande Adelaja

I have practically been stupid for love but the dumbest of all the risks I ever took was believing that my partner was going to leave his other girlfriends for me.

I will describe the greatest risk as when I gave my all – my heart and love – to someone that I knew did not deserve it all. I clouded my mind and kept telling myself that he would change. I also believed that people change or that I could change him. But I have stopped taking risks anymore.

Going against my parent’s wish….Blessing Igwe

My dad didn’t like the person I was in a relationship with, and I was willing to get married to the person without my parent’s consent, how stupid I was. But later, I realised that it wasn’t worth it, and if I had done that, the person won’t have appreciated it at all. Some things were revealed later in the relationship that led to the end of the relationship. I would never think of taking such risks again in my life.

Went on a risky journey for love – Tola Eunice Adeola

It was close to our second semester examination when I noticed that the communication between my boyfriend and I was fading away. Despite the fact that I hate to travel long distances, I took the risk of travelling to his school, just to sort things out.

I asked a girl to be my valentine without prior notice – Tobi Odeyale

There was a football competition in my school at that time so everyone was watching the match. But I lost interest in the match and for some reason, I headed for the class area. She wasn’t my girlfriend. In fact, we had never had any conversation prior to that moment and I wanted a partner as my valentine so badly at the time, so I walked up to her and handed her a letter or a paper saying I wanted her to be my valentine or partner or whatever people call it. Surprisingly, she agreed; I was swept off my feet and I couldn’t believe it. The risk paid off eventually because we had never spoken to each other prior to the whole “be my valentine” thing.

I spent all the money in my account because of her – Ayegbajeje Olayinka

I once dated a lady and we were close or so I felt. It was her birthday and

I had a few family issues I wanted to settle with money but because of her birthday, I cancelled everything and took out all the money in my account because of her. But surprisingly, a week later, we broke up. It felt like rapture.

I had to wait for the arrival of my lover at the dead of night – Allao Abimbola

Well, it happened some years back during the time I engaged in the national youth service. I met a lady in Lagos, so I asked her out. She agreed to date me but I was already in Cross River State. Months passed, and we were missing each other, so she decided to visit me in Calabar (Cross River State capital), but I declined considering the distance and risk involved. But she insisted on coming over and then came to Cross River. On the day she was to arrive, I was at the park by 7pm, waiting for her. I had already made an arrangement with a commercial motorcyclist who would take us home from the park. After a while, I was worried and kept checking every bus getting to the park and this was because her phone battery was flat, so I couldn’t reach her on the phone. She arrived at 1am, six hours later and we left for my place. But while on the road, there was a downpour and there was nowhere to park so we continued the journey. We were on the bike for one hour instead of 20 minutes so we got drenched by the time we got home. I gave the commercial motorcyclist a tip for waiting with me for six hours. Thank God it wasn’t in Lagos; it would have been worse.

Being in love – Bello Habib

The greatest risk I have taken for love is being in love. Being in love changes a lot of things about you; it fills you with unexplainable joy and you find yourself making sacrifices and doing things you never thought you could do, especially for and because of another person. It’s like a beverage that gives you wings.

I am a straightforward and simple person and all I want is my freedom and happiness. Happiness independent of my finances, my relationship, my friends and family but I would say the greatest risk I have taken for love is risking my freedom. I’m not a prisoner and I’m not being held captive but I lost the freedom that comes with being single, having your time to yourself, owing no one any explanations for your actions or inactions and decisions, and so on. These were all things I enjoyed while I was single but I would say being in love, giving, receiving and showing love, the joy that comes with being responsible and caring for some other human being over yourself, is worth losing my freedom for.

Going late for my terminal examination…. Tosin Ajani

The greatest risk I ever took for love was arriving really late for one of my final year examinations because I wanted to make sure my girlfriend was okay. We were supposed to take the examination together but when I didn’t see her around, I had to look for her to ensure that she didn’t miss the examination. If it were the other way round, she would also have done the same thing for me.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]