Would you still vote for a partner who had shunned your counsel not to contest for a political post?
In relationships and marriages, it is usually expected that partners will take decisions together. However, in some cases both of them may not agree on some certain issues. Saturday PUNCH asked Nigerians if they would still vote for a spouse who had shunned their counsel not to contest for a political post.

I won’t vote for a woman that disobeyed me – Maxwell Adeleye

Let me say very expressly without sounding hypocritical that it is illogical, irrational, absurd, crazy and foolish for a wife to proceed on such a venture despite the disapproval of her husband.

First, it is ungodly; remember that the Bible says women should bow to their husbands. If my wife wants to run for a political office and after due consideration and consultation with God, reality and common sense, I feel that her ambition will be counterproductive but she ignores me, then, I will conclude she’s tired of our marriage. It is as simple as that. If the position of the husband is valid, then, such a wife cannot eat her cake and have it. Before a woman proceeds on such a venture, she needs the support of her husband but if she disregards the wishes of her husband and she wins the election, I am certain that such a woman cannot excel in office.

For disobeying her husband’s directive, she has traditionally placed a curse on herself which may affect her children if not religiously curtailed.

I say with all humility that for disregarding her husband, that is if the man’s reason is not out of jealousy and pettiness; then, it is certain that her decision to run for office is not to serve humanity but to oil her unholy ego. Such a woman cannot earn my vote because voting for her connotes an endorsement of irresponsibility and reckless idiosyncrasy.

Yes, I will still support her – Soromtochukwu Uwakwe

Yes I will support her because she is my wife. True love is all about supporting a loved one through thick or thin; it will be my delight to support her career. I’ll also try not to play the – I told you so – game if she doesn’t emerge as the winner; doing that may hurt her and affect her self-esteem. As a couple, we are supposed to be a team; fighting against the world.

I won’t support a disobedient wife – Makanjuola Akinyemi

I will not be of any support whatsoever to a wife who has solely decided to go against my advice in pursuance of a political position. That could even lead to the end of our marriage, which I don’t pray for. I believe that it’s like a mission impossible to have a loyal and devoted wife who’s politically active. My reason is this: for example, I can imagine her going for a meeting by 1am and she will always be in the midst of men and I cannot take that.

For the sake of peace, I will support her – Adeleye Adeniyi

As her husband and the man God has given to her to be her guardian and protector, I’ll support her, stand by her and pray for her; just because I want a peaceful home. I can’t pretend I am supporting her in public and then keep malice with her at home. As a man, I want a loving and peaceful atmosphere in my home. I won’t want my children to serve any form of bad blood between their parents because that’s not the example I want to set for them.

We both have to come to a common ground to see how we can make it work.

We have different goals in life, so I will support her – Adebola Austine

Yes, I will support and vote for her because we all have our different goals in life. I can’t stop her from achieving her goals. I may not see the big picture she has seen ahead. The goal is more important than the role I will play; people have been known to achieve more as a result of working with others than against them. Together we stand, divided we fall.

I am his helpmate – Ajayi Adesola

Actually, it’s an advice. He can accept or ignore it. By the way, what if my opinion is wrong?

Besides, I still hold on to my Bible that says I’m a helpmate to him and not somebody to impose something on him. Whether or not he wants to follow my advice, I have to respect his dreams and aspirations.

My partner must definitely have reasons for his decision; and I will also have my reasons why I don’t want him to contest for the position. So with this understanding, a trial will convince both of us. Having said this, supporting him is not optional, it is mandatory. In this dispensation that we have different self-made ‘supporting strikers,’ one must not joke with their partner.

It depends on his intentions – Amarachi Onyemechara

If I advise my husband not to contest for a particular position and he goes against my wish, I will still vote for him only if he is qualified and possesses some qualities that will benefit the members of the community.

He is my husband, so regardless of my opinion; I will support him because he might have good intentions for the country or state as the case may be. I won’t want to use my personal fears or opinion to hinder the society from benefiting from his goodwill.

But on the other hand, if his intentions are wrong; sincerely, I won’t vote for him; I will try my best to talk him out of it.

I will do it to save my home – Oluwakemi Odusote

If my husband goes ahead to contest for a political position against my advice, I will still vote for him because I am his wife and I have to protect my home. I would make it clear to him that he will have to face the consequences of his actions if anything negative comes out of it. He is my husband so no matter what, I will have to protect his image and ego in public.

I will vote for him because I trust his decision – Dunni Famewo

I will vote for him because I know that there must be a valid reason why he wants to contest for that position. It could be that there are some challenges that he has noticed in the society and he wants to be an agent of change; so for such reasons, I won’t stop him.

No matter the outcome of the decision, since he is my husband then we will bear the consequences together.

Even if he is stubborn about it, we will bear the consequences together. Although if something goes wrong later in future, I might remind him of the advice of I had given him. It is only natural for me to behave like that because I am human.

I will give him my full support – Funmi Adekoya

Even though we are married, as individuals we have things we are passionate about and we have visions; so for this reason, I will vote for him. After he has won the election if something goes wrong, I will just make him realise that these are the reasons why I was against his decision initially. With or without my vote, he will most likely win the election if God is on his side.

On the other hand, if everything goes on well, I will still enjoy the benefits of the position with him. No matter the outcome, we will bear the consequences together.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]