Routes couples can re-design a hot, erotic sex life (1)
Funmi Akingbade

[email protected]

08034540594, 08156047309

It is an understatement that sex remains a potent tool to spice new marriage relationship and to also heat up old ones. Hot, spicy and erotic sex is always achievable when the willingness to learn is in the hearts of the married lovers and the strength and the readiness to apply workable methods are made available to them.

You cannot access a route when it is not opened up; same is applicable in the marriage relationship. Hot, erotic sex can’t be achieved when neither nor both couple do not open up to their needs, desire, want and their fantasies. Primarily, it is very important to make your spouse to open up and talk freely about sex, their interests and the things they would love to try out in bed.

Talking about sex is always an awkward moment, especially if you’re newly married and have not been experiencing penetrative sex before. Even when you have been married for many years, you may still feel uncomfortable discussing sex because you’re afraid you may be judged.

But do you know that you can turn even the most prudish of wife or husband with locked up secrets into a serial confessor? Free sexual talk makes spouses feel closer and makes their sex life feel more awesome and fresher with every passing day! Many though have reported failure in this area because instead of engaging in talks that will promote good sexual relationship, they bring up dirty past experiences that usually ruin their sex bed.

I would advise that confessing past experiences, especially if your spouse doesn’t know just how sexually active you had been before you got married, should be handled with discretion and wisdom. As a matter of fact, most partners prefer to stay in the dark instead of hearing their partner’s twisted past. But if you’re sure your partner would be able to handle your past, slip a few details now and then and watch how they react to it over a couple of weeks. However, opening up to your past does sometimes makes some couples more intimate than they ever imagine.

To start off, please kindly avoid ‘the serious talk’ stuff. For instance, statements like ‘we need to talk about sex’ should be the last thing you should say if you want to introduce the topic of sexual openness or sexual fantasies. The best time to talk about sex should be when both of you are in bed, or when both of you are just fooling around and relaxing around the house, or when the opportune moment crops up, either because of something a friend said or something you saw on the T.V or in a magazine.

If you’re feeling terribly awkward about the impending sexual conversation, it’s better to speak in third person. You can talk about a *friend of yours* who likes a particular fantasy or has indulged in a particular sexual style. It’s easier to talk in third person and if your wife or husband likes the idea, you can always smile sheepishly and confess that you were actually talking about yourself!

While trying to please your spouse or to prove that you love their idea even when you may not, you have to be careful and not be overly forceful or go overboard. Just because your partner enjoys something doesn’t mean they expect you to enjoy the same thing. Sometimes, it takes an understanding and compromise for sexual interests not to clash between married partners.

Spouses must find a better way to talk to their partner about their sexual interests. And also bear in mind that it may take some time for the ideas to sink in and if it’s something you just can’t do, be forthright and tell your spouse about it without making them feel judged!

While at the stage of foreplay, try as a husband and practise a delay penetration, when you have something to say. Do you rush into the act because you find your wife irresistible, stop and take it slowly and relate your heart desire to her or ask her to express or reveal her sexual deepest thought to you. Taking it slowly in bed and talking about things either of you enjoy can be a revelation that can make your sex life a lot more interesting. Take time to explore each other, talk about things both of you enjoy and try new things that feel good in bed.

Holding your sexual thoughts close to your heart and expecting sex to magically get better with each passing day as the infatuation wears off is like asking for a miracle every time you have sex. Open your mind and explore the world of sexual fantasies.

There are different ways to tell your husband or wife how much you enjoy sleeping with him or her; so cultivate your peculiar creative way of sexual conversation. Sometimes the way you talk about sex or demand for it; the way you respond to your partner’s advances or the things you do to your body in order to look good, could go a long way in keeping the passion in your relationship hot and sizzling. When there is a mutual desire to talk and jump into each other’s arms and roll together, a spouse will always be willing to go the extra mile to ensure that they both have the best of sex.

Therefore, flirting with your spouse with talks can be ideal. There is nothing wrong with the word flirt; flirting makes spouses to be more sexually confident. When married lovers put on their alluring airs, they are indirectly telling themselves of the special interest in their sexual prowess, all spouses often react positively to this kind of attitude.

Talk and look go hand-in-hand. This is because glances and talks generate sexual energy and also accelerate sexual power. Glancing and talking seductively could eventually get your spouse fired up sexually regardless of the level of pretense. Statistically on the average, people get sexually bored easily when the talk is too lengthy, so voice your sexual fantasy; practise it with your spouse.

Human sexuality is the capacity to have erotic experiences and responses; it is also a way someone is sexually attracted to another person and there is no doubt that sex is good for married lovers, but sex in the atmosphere of love is even better.

One thing deep intimate talk does is to create a pathway to the world of sexual Eldorado and un-hindered inhibition and skyrocket the couple to eruptive volcano sexual experiences.

The husband should start off sex by stimulating his wife’s heart and stop focusing more on manual stimulation. Openness toward one’s partner leads to the most beneficial kind of sex that a couple can ever imagine. In marriage relationship, passionate sex is the quickest to develop and the quickest to fade when deep intimacy is lacking, because intimacy develops more slowly, and commitment more gradually while passion develops too fast.

One important outcome of having intimate sex between married lovers is emotional safety. If you feel like your spouse understands you and you understand him or her, you are more prone to showing your true sexual feelings. And if you show your true feelings, closeness and intimacy on all levels will be very obvious in your relationship.

But what really is intimacy? Most couples seem to define intimacy as two married lovers engaged in hot and passionate sex, or something very close to this. But the truth is the experience of physical connection between two married lovers is only the culmination of all that is intimate between them. Intimacy is much more than that.

Intimacy is an attitude. It’s how you get along all the time, not only when you’re making love. It has to be continuous in order to be fulfilling and if you truly want to enjoy great quality lovemaking, the hours outside the bedroom should be spent with the same degree of closeness. Fortunately, achieving that is not impossible. I have a few tricks up my sleeve that I am willing to share with you. You can thank me later.

Sensitivities, consideration, respect and affection should be a mutual give and take in marriage. I call this emotional workout for couples! What, did you think that bonding happens just like that, without any exterior influence? No, sir! There are plenty of things that you can do to strengthen your relationship. This mutual give and take will help you become relaxed in the presence of each other and attuned to your heart rhythms. It involves a lot of touching, because due to the high level of stress typical Nigerian couples face on a daily basis, I think affectionate touching has a really calming and soothing effect on the spouse.

When you both are home together or around each other, lie on your sides with your legs bent so that you fit together like two spoons in a drawer. Once you are snuggled together, lie still, letting go of any tension and try not to talk or move too much. Breathe heavily and rhythmically and listen to your partner’s breathing at the same time.

To be continued

Does anal sex cause vaginal infection?

My problem is that my desire to have sex with my husband has really taken a downturn and he has been complaining so bitterly. The thought of having him kiss me, touch me and make love to me really makes me so sick. I give excuses and whenever I decide to succumb to avoid fights, I just lie like a log of wood most times and let him have his way. All this is really so surprising to even me because we used to have a fabulous and active sex life in the early years of our marriage. Suddenly I don’t know why it all changed for the worse. I usually feel so bad for him when I turn him down, but the truth is that I just don’t usually feel like being made love to. The urge is not there at all. As a matter of fact, whenever we are alone in the house, I usually get so scared and afraid so that he won’t ask me to let us make love. In the beginning, we used to give each other cunning Lingus and fellatio. I told him to stop because I observe that after he does it to me, I end up having serious itches, pains and sometimes this leads to wounds in my vagina. Does anal sex affect the vagina?

Mrs Emmanuelle Joshua

Yes, it does and yes you are in danger. You are not alone in this kind of situation.What you should do is first find quality time to discuss with your husband. Agree to stay off sex for some time rekindle your courtship activities, talk and just talk a lot with each other, take a time off for vacation within your budget and then deliberately renew your interest in your man first; then in your sexual attraction.

Anal sex does cause vaginal infection because intermittent sex from the anus to the vagina sometimes does allow ascending infection from the little fecal particles that normally stick to the penis via the semen from the anus to the vagina. The anus is meant to expel waste and when these wastes find their way to the vagina, infection does set in.

Can baby in the womb really respond to sounds?

My wife said the baby in her womb will become promiscuous if we have sex while she is still pregnant, so, we should not have sex till she gives birth because she believes a funny superstition that babies can actually repeat what is done outside the womb. Kindly shed light on this.

Thomas Luke

Actually, by the third trimester, researchers have evidence that unborn babies respond to rhymes recited by their mothers, but to the extent they respond to sexual activities, they are not conclusive.

By the time women are 34 weeks pregnant, their unborn babies can respond to the sound of their mother’s voice; this is because the mother’s voice is the predominant source of sensory stimulation in the developing foetus. A mother’s voice is involved in the development of early learning and memory capabilities.

Can one reach orgasm from nipple play only and is nipple leakage normal?

Lolo Keechi

Nipples are full of nerves and MRI tests show that fondling them “lights up” the same part of the brain that’s linked to the genitals. Nipple leakage is only normal when a woman is breast feeding, or when one is discharging during late pregnancy, after giving birth. Any other time, it’s not normal. A leak can signal a number of things, from thyroid and other hormone problems to cancer, so get it checked out by a doctor.

Does oral sex on a lady lead to infection?

Does oral sex lead to vaginal infection? I am a very clean and neat fellow, neat and clean to a fault but I am confused each time my husband goes down into me with his mouth; I always get infected with this particular toilet disease. I am over 40 years and I have been to pharmacy nearby over and again and each time I am re-infected again and again. I experience itching in my vagina, feeling soreness and pain during sex and while urinating a thick, white, irritating vaginal discharge always comes out. I am wondering if this is an STD or he has a bad infection or what?

Chinua Ike

It may likely be vaginal yeasts infection. Most yeast infections are caused by an overgrowth of the Candida albicans fungus. It is usually present in the vagina and is normally found in the mouth, digestive tract and on the skin and can overgrow in certain conditions. There is a high possibility of you getting infected and re-infected especially during oral sex because your husband’s mouth also harbours a degree of Candida albicans fungus. If you have a vaginal yeast infection, you’re most likely to experience itching in the vaginal area. Other symptoms include a burning sensation, soreness, pain during intercourse and/or during urination, and a thick, white, vaginal discharge. Vaginal yeast infections are caused by bacteria. A vaginal yeast infection isn’t considered a sexually transmitted infection, but about 12% to 15% of men get an itchy rash on the penis after unprotected sex with an infected woman. Uncircumcised men have a greater risk of developing a rash. I will not subscribe to your buying over the counter drugs. If you suspect you have a yeast infection but aren’t sure, see a doctor. Your symptoms could be something else and not getting proper treatment can lead to potentially serious complications. Ask your doctor before treating yourself for a yeast infection if you are pregnant, have never been diagnosed with a yeast infection, or get recurrent yeast infections. Most doctors recommend that women not douche at all. Douching changes the acidity level of the vagina and the balance of organisms that live in it; this may give easy access to yeast infection. Wash only the outside of the vagina with warm water and mild soap.

You can reduce your chances of getting a yeast infection by wearing cotton panties, which are cooler than synthetic panties and won’t trap sweat; avoid feminine sprays, which can be irritating; frequently change your pads often during your period; and avoid tight panties, and jeans. Certain medications — including birth control pills, some antibiotics, and steroids – can change the acidic balance of the vagina and encourage the growth of yeast, which can lead to a vaginal infection. Since you are over 40 years old, there may be possibility that you are in your pre-menopause, and menopause causes hormonal changes, which can affect the balance of yeast or bacteria in the vagina and lead to a yeast infection. Recurrent yeast infections may be related to other medical conditions, such as diabetes or HIV, and may require a doctor’s care.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]