What is the most embarrassing moment you’ve had in a relationship
When two people are in a relationship; there is a chance that at some point, some embarrassing moments will occur. Saturday PUNCH asked Nigerians about their most embarrassing moments in relationships

My mum chased my girlfriend away

Adekunle Ajayi

During my secondary school days, I was not allowed to have a girlfriend or invite a lady to my house, especially my room. I was living with my mother who was a teacher. On that fateful day, I decided to sneak my girlfriend into my room thinking that my mum was at work already and would not have a reason to return home earlier than normal. We genuinely had the intention to discuss privately alone, nothing more, nothing less. Unfortunately for us, my mother suddenly returned home to pick her forgotten lesson note. She met us in the room discussing; she chased her out with a broom and packed my things out of our house and asked me to follow her.

When my ex-boyfriend got drunk during a visit to my house

Tolani Aborisade

My most embarrassing moment in a relationship was when my ex boyfriend came to visit me in my house while he was very drunk. Due to his drunken state, he started telling me he couldn’t marry me because I was a single mother; I felt very embarrassed. His reason was that his mother was a virgin as at the time she got married to his father. He finally told me that the only way he would marry me was if I dumped my son with my baby daddy; I felt very bad.

I broke up with him that night.

Reaching in between her cleavage to admire a pendant

Adebola Abass

There was this day back in the university; I and my girlfriend were at the cinema. While we were gisting and waiting for our movie time at the lounge, something I still can’t comprehend happened. She had a necklace with a beautiful pendant with the alphabet “A” (my initials) carved in it. I got attracted to the pendant and didn’t realise how embarrassing what I did next was till I stopped.

I reached out for the pendant which was well settled on the upper part of her cleavage; I grabbed the pendant between my fingers and played with it excitedly for a few seconds before realising what I had done.

The look on her face moments after I stopped was that of surprise as she looked bewildered and speechless. I apologised to her and she gave a shy smile without a single word.

Till this day, each time I remember this event, I still wonder what got into me that I had to reach in between her cleavage just to have a feel of the pendant in my hands.

My farting annoyed my husband

Busola Adenibuyan

We had a night out with my husband and friends. After we ate and enjoyed ourselves, we hit the road heading home. While having a chat in the car, I farted and acted as if nothing happened but in my mind, I said a silent prayer: “God please don’t let it smell” just the way kids do. But unknowing to me, he heard the sound but kept mute until he perceived it and the next statement was:”woman! woman!” wearing a serious look on his face like he was going to pull over and tell me to get down at the next bus stop. His reaction surprised me; I was so embarrassed that I wondered if it was a crime to fart.

Buying oversized clothes all in a rush to surprise my girl

Falana Taye Fredrick

When you are in love, you always want to surprise your lover and make sure he or she is always happy. I remember vividly when I had a date with my fiancée in 2017 and had to travel from Lagos to Ibadan to see her. On my way to Ibadan, I branched a store to get some clothes. The crazy thing was that I didn’t even test the trousers because I couldn’t wait to meet my love. On getting to her house, I requested to change to the new dress since we had to go out and see a movie and then the worst thing happened: The new dress was not my size. She was very angry with me and I had to beg her and explained everything to her. The most embarrassing thing was that we took a walk down to the store and believe me; I couldn’t recognise the seller.

My ex-boyfriend’s friend slapped me

Adebayo Abiola

My most embarrassing moment in a relationship was when my ex-boyfriend’s friend slapped me. I was crying and yelling; I had never been embarrassed like that in my life before.

What actually happened was that my ex was suspecting if I was in relationship with another guy. Instead of him to ask me about it directly, he went ahead to tell his friend and that was the reason he (the friend) slapped me.

When I caught her cheating on me

Salami Ayodele

I was suspecting my girlfriend; so I decided to monitor her movement. I finally found what my eyes were looking for and I felt so embarrassed that my suspicion was accurate. The painful thing was that I loved her so much but she never felt remorseful about it, which made me to hate her the more.

My ex was double-dating

Ajadi Oluwakemi

The most embarrassing moment I have had in a relationship was when I found out my ex-boyfriend was double dating. He had to introduce me to his other girlfriend as an ex; I wasn’t even aware I was addressed as an “ex”. It still hurts and it was very embarrassing because I was quite popular and we had a lot of mutual friends who heard about it.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]