Strive to have a servant heart in your marriage
Elizabeth Badejo

[email protected]

www.stringmynaijawedding.com …08097360766

The key to embracing success in marriage is to love, nurture and to serve your significant other without a speck of pride or prejudice. Finding the right balance between nurturing your own dreams and aspirations as well as managing your spouse’s successes is vital in marriage.

Contrary to the belief that many marriages break up today due to financial setbacks, the majority of those marriages also crumble due to the couple’s inability to serve one another. Building a successful life together is in supporting one another to make it happen by setting your own goals at your own pace as well as finding the strengths to help each other to achieve individually too.

Love is in serving

True happiness in marriage is found in doing the simple things many people take for granted. Serving your spouse is a selfless act that brings greater accomplishments and a huge sense of humility into your marriage. The greatest problem facing many marriages today is lack of service and lack of understanding which makes it more difficult to embrace and manage success as a couple.

A woman who gives herself to serving her husband will certainly possess a good heart and gentle spirit needed to care for him, able to identify opportunities for him, embrace as well as manage his successes too.

Love is also serving your wife when you understand the importance of peace in your home and ensuring that you do everything in her best interest to make her feel loved, secure and protected always.

Serving is your responsibility

Today, the society can sometimes make it difficult for couples to understand the true meaning of serving one another in marriage especially in cultures where women are naturally inclined to serve men. When couples focus on traditions and cultural expectations, they can also lose their own sense of direction and responsibilities too.

Serving should be shared responsibility in marriage and should not be seen as a stereotype of the domicile and submissiveness to the other half. Marriage they say is 50/50 but to attain success in marriage is not on the basis of ratio but true love based on serving, sacrificing and understanding the importance of what each person brings into the marriage.

Make serving your core values

Identifying the core values of your marriage is significant to its success; establish your own ideology to serve one another and engage your husband in simple acts such as cooking, washing, babysitting, ironing, getting the children ready for school or picking them up from school.

When you make serving a core value in your home, there will be no responsibility too big or too small for anyone to accomplish as you both work together for the benefit of the other. Serving breeds respect on a common ground to share your opinions and make decisions that affect your marriage and family too.

Notes

The greatest impact serving brings into a marriage is humility, just like the role a servant who focuses on the needs of his master; serving your spouse is caring about things you normally wouldn’t care about and setting your needs aside to accommodate those needs now.

All in all, thrive to have a servant heart so that you can remain a good steward of your marriage.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]