Who handles shared secrets better, a man or woman?
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

In relationships and marriage, it is usually expected that partners will share some of their deep secrets together with the hope and belief that their secrets are safe. Saturday PUNCH asked Nigerians who they think handles shared secret better between man and woman

Women handle shared secrets better – Titi Bada

I believe women usually handle shared secrets better. It might be hard to believe because of the notion that women are gossips or rumour mongers but a woman can keep a secret till the end of her life if it is necessary that she keeps such secret or if she knows that letting out that secret can cause danger or harm to the people around her. We need to separate secret from gossip. Women gossip, yes! They talk too much Yes! But when it comes to safeguarding or protecting what they love or who they care about, they can be very secretive.

For instance, it is often said, “only a woman can tell who the real father of her child is” is very true. That is one of the secrets that a woman can keep till she enters the grave. Also, a woman who knows that her husband cannot give her children for one reason or the other can keep such a secret for as long as she lives if she really loves the man especially if they secretly agreed to get children through other means.

Keeping secrets is not a gender-based thing – Blessing Ogar

The walls have ears; what is considered a secret to Mr A may not be a secret or big deal to Mr B. Your secret may be news for someone. Once you have shared it, it is not really a secret. So many people quarrel with their friends when they think their secret is out or broken and this may lead to mistrust and sometimes misjudgment of the strength of such relationships.

Anything that is considered a secret should not be shared in the first place; I think it’s just best to conceal it for life.

Nobody is perfect, anxiety and depression could make people say some things they would ordinarily not share with others.

I prefer to confide in men – Funmilayo Adetifa

Men handle shared secrets better than women. Men generally don’t talk too much compared to women; so they are less likely to blurt out one’s secrets. When two women share a secret, the first thing either of them will do when there’s a quarrel is to expose each other’s secret. Personally, I prefer to confide in men than in women.

A man handles secrets better -Olayemi Adunni

Men are better with secrets than women because they hardly take things personal. Most men have a calm personality and are more mature than women. Women are also emotionally flexible compared to men; their emotional nature sometimes makes them share their thoughts with other people a lot.

Men don’t gossip like women -Alice Momoh

Men handle shared secrets better and my reasons are: men don’t gossip like women; men have this mentality of the way forward in all their actions.

As the breadwinner of the family, their mindset is always on how to get things done so they don’t have time for petty talks.

Women are not wired to keep secrets-Ibiloye Moses

Naturally, I believe women aren’t naturally wired to keep shared top secrets.

Even logically, if you have a giver, there must be a complementary receiver. Women talk, men listen.

There is a saying that goes thus: “Women are absolutely rotten at keeping secrets.”

As far as I am concerned, the minimum duration you can trust a woman with a secret is just about 37 minutes; with a maximum duration being 47hrs.15mins.

Women let out shared secrets out of their concern and interest for others; they’re relieved in sharing. They struggle to keep burdens.

Another reason is the fact that men forget easily; while women remember with details. Ask a man and a woman to recount a movie, and you’ll see that men can’t talk much.

Another factor again is the fact that women keep more friends/relationships than men. And part of what keeps such relationships going are gossips; which will most likely lead to letting out others’ secrets.

Men are rigid – Olanrewaju Johnson

Culturally, men are regarded as more mature than women and due to this, there are some characteristics that men generally possess such as rigidity, valour, dominance and so on. Women on the other hand are characterised with certain traits such as flexibility; they are always talking etc. Secrets most times are safe with men because of their rigid nature; they are not easily manipulated. Men do not have the luxury of time like women who are always free and this gives room for them to talk and in the process of talking, secrets being told to them might be leaked unknowingly.

Another reason is that men have this protective nature which allows them handle shared secrets better than women.

Women enjoy talking – ADELEKE Taiwo

Ladies love ‘gist’ a lot and in the process, they won’t know when they start talking about another person’s issue because of their nature while guys don’t talk too much. Most guys don’t even like it when people talk too much, so I think guys can keep secrets better than ladies.

Men don’t have time for such conversations – Rómijaran Ayuwo

Men generally spend less time in personal or people-related conversations. Generally, they tend towards sports, politics and business. Women on the other hand are naturally interested in what we call “gist”. Simply speaking mathematically, a woman runs a higher chance of broaching a “secret” in the heat of a gist.

Men are wired to keep secrets – Tobiloba Alade

To the best of my knowledge, men usually handle shared secrets better. Men are wired to keep issues to themselves irrespective of the situation. Personally, I hardly share issues with people; that is just the way I am. However, some of the secrets I have shared in the past have not been revealed.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]