Six best ways to care for your wife nursing a child
In the life of a couple, the joy of having a new baby, especially when both of them look forward to it and not a product of an unwanted pregnancy, is best imagined. It explains why some families throw big parties during christening ceremonies, and the felicitation sometimes lingers till days after.

But, beyond the celebration, raising a child at that tender age, is, no doubt, a huge task, especially for the mother. However, the already taxing situation could be made better or worse by the kind of support – or lack of it – they get from people around them, especially their husbands.

Thus, it seems helpful to look at ways men could help their wives to cope with the stress that accompanies raising a newborn baby:

Don’t pester them for sex if…: Usually, for women who had normal delivery, sexual intercourse is not encouraged until six weeks after childbirth, to enable them to heal faster and avoid likely infections, and for those who were delivered of their baby through Caesarean Section; it could take a longer time. It is worthy of note, therefore, that sex is probably one of the last things on the mind of such women, given the pain of delivery and the overwhelming task of parenting. Thus, men are advised not to pester their wives for sex during that period, say within the recovery window, especially if the woman had complications or is not yet ready for sexual intercourse. A seasoned endocrinologist, Dr. Olamoyegun Michael, said, “For those who have low libido, if the man begins to put pressure on them for sex, and if he begins to make the woman feel like she’s depriving him because of the childbirth or he even threatens to go outside to satisfy himself, that could make such a woman to be depressed.”

But, since there is no one-size-fits-all in such issues, it should be noted that there are women with high sex drive who might ask for it within a shorter time. According to him, if such a woman (with high sex drive) needs sex and the husband shies away from it, it could hurt their feelings, because they tend to feel they are no longer attractive to their husband due to the childbirth. He said for women who are prone to depression, such denial could be a trigger. He said, “For those who have high libido, if you don’t give them sex when they need it, that can lead to depression, because they could think that the man no longer finds them attractive. He added, “The lesson for men is that; if your wife has low sex drive, don’t disturb her for sex until she’s ready and don’t make her feel guilty for not being ready on time, because it’s an unusual period for them. But, if she has high sex drive, oblige her if she asks for it so she doesn’t feel she’s no longer attractive to you due to the childbirth.”

Don’t blame them if the stay in hospital is prolonged:

No doubt, there are situations where women who have just been delivered of their babies are not cleared to go home yet, whether due to complications or the need to observe the baby for some time. But, sadly, there are times the husbands of such women shift the blame on the women if they are not discharged on time. This, according to experts, could trigger psychological trauma in such women. Olamoyegun said, “Statements like ‘won’t they release you’, ‘what are you still doing there’, ‘don’t you know you are incurring more bills or is it that you don’t want to go home again’ could affect the psychological stability of such a woman. So, men need to stop saying such things, because even without such hurting words, the woman is already going through a lot. Don’t make it worse.”

Help out with the chores:

Even though in this part of the world, women are largely saddled with the responsibility of doing chores in the home, like cooking, washing the plates, doing the laundry and bathing the kids, findings have shown that after childbirth, men who help out with the chores at home significantly make their wives happy, especially during that period. Researchers at Cornell University in the United States, led by Prof. Sharon Sassler, said couples who share housework tend to have high level of satisfaction and marital happiness because women are drawn to men who help with chores in the house and so there would be more affection. Olamoyegun added that it’s counter-productive when men castigate their wives for not being forthcoming with all the chores. He said, “When they return home, men should not say things like, ‘is it because you have just been delivered of a baby that you don’t want to do any chore in this house?’ or ‘is that why you can no longer cook?’ Such talks can lead to depression.”

Don’t make derogatory remarks about their body:

It is a given that there are certain physiological changes in the body of women after childbirth, but men are always advised not to make any negative or uncomplimentary remark about the body of the woman at such times, because it could affect their self esteem, impact negatively on their attitude and even care for the baby. Olamoyegun said, “Men should not say things like ‘is it because you have just been delivered of a baby that you now look this ugly and old?’ It could make a woman depressed.”

Let nothing take attention away from them:

One other way to care for such women is for men to show deep interest in their well-being and not elevate other things or people above them. Olamoyegun said if they already have children and the man then shifts attention from her and focuses on the children they already have, even though the children are also hers, she might slide into depression if she gets the feeling that she is no longer relevant or does not deserve attention again. He said, “The man may not be doing it deliberately to spite the woman, but the woman could misconstrue his actions and feel he’s not giving her all the attention she deserves. They are in a delicate situation and they need attention during that period. So, there is need to balance it so it doesn’t look like she’s the only one to take care of the child.” Also, it has been said that such a period is a wrong time for such men to persistently complain about hurting fingers, headache or some inconsequential things that could make them the object of sympathy.

Make sure they are not lonely:

This factor goes side by side with giving them attention. Due to the husband’s job demands and some other reasons, it is not unusual for nursing mothers to be alone with the baby for most parts of the day, especially when mothers-in-law have come and gone. But findings show that a phone call even while at work; like a video call on WhatsApp or Skype, could make a lot of difference for such women as they tend to feel loved. Also, spending time with them and attending to the baby when available so the woman could also have some time off could help. A psychologist and author, Dr. Guy Winch, said even though it’s easy to assume nursing mothers cannot be bored, with a child they are deeply connected to by their side almost every hour of the day, such women could actually be bored. He said, “One might think that having a newborn by your side (or on you) virtually every minute of the day and night would lead to the opposite problem — craving alone time. But while new mothers might feel extremely connected to their newborn, they often feel extremely disconnected from everyone else — including their spouse.” Perhaps, one helpful approach might be for men to ask their wives what they could do to help eliminate the boredom. Winch added, “Loneliness, especially when it continues for too long, can pose risks to our physical as well as our emotional health, and because new parents do not anticipate feeling lonely, they often struggle to identify the problem and figure out solutions.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]