Is it right to receive underwear as a gift from someone you are not in a relationship with?
There are different forms of relationship; some are platonic while others are romantic. The nature of the relationship will determine how the two people involved will relate with each other especially in terms of exchanging gifts. Saturday PUNCH asked Nigerians whether they would give or accept underwear as a gift by someone they are not in a romantic relationship with

It is offensive

Ayodeji Oluwatosin

It is not right; I see it as offensive; he/she is trying to pass a message indirectly. Why will a woman think of getting me underwear? If a woman has something in mind about me, she should come straight up to me and tell me directly; not by buying me such. If I am not in love with a woman, buying me underwear that she will love to see me in is offensive. On the other hand, personally, I will never give a woman underwear as a gift if we are not in a relationship.

It depends on the type of underwear

Ojo Boluwatife

It actually depends on the type or class of the underwear. For example, if it is just simple underwear, then it is okay. But buying something like a pants or bra for a woman is not right; how would the man know her size? There are other gifts a man I am not in a relationship with can buy for me other than underwear.

It is the intention that matters

Adeshola Fatimoju

I don’t see anything wrong in it though, it’s the intention that matters. I consider gifts as expression of appreciation, love or kindness which could be to anyone. As a man, I can receive underwear as a gift from a lady I am not in a relationship with.

Underwear is sacred

Zawak Wakilah

For some reasons, I can’t collect underwear from a guy. First, underwear is something really personal and intimate for ladies. Interestingly, no one except my mother and myself has ever bought underwear for me. I just see it as something sacred and I will feel awkward if a guy buys it for me, not even the one I’m in a relationship with.

Second, we ladies see our bodies as something sacred. One question that will be on my mind is: how the guy got to know my pants and bra size?

It is wrong

Tunde Ososanya

It’s wrong to receive underwear from someone you are not in a relationship with. I see such gifts as what people in an intimate relationship should give to each other, not people in a platonic relationship. If one receives such a gift from someone with whom one is in a platonic relationship, it could send a wrong signal to the recipient. The recipient may start having the feeling that you are interested in starting up an intimate relationship and feel that you’re shy to express your feelings the way a man should express his feelings, hence the gift.

Also, some men are so funny that if a lady receives such gift from them and also expresses her gratitude, they (men) may interpret such to mean that the lady wants the friendship to be taken to the next level. Instead of getting underwear for your friend, why not get a shirt or a pair of trousers?

Any man in his right senses will feel jealous if he learns that his girlfriend receives underwear as a gift from a man. No lady will feel good as well if she learns of such gift being received by her man. This type of gift should only be exchanged between lovers or from a mother to the child.

It is not right

Olurunkemi Aisha

To me, it’s not right if a lady accepts underwear from a man who isn’t her boyfriend because that act is definitely the beginning of something new. Even if she doesn’t have any ulterior motive, the guy might feel she is interested in him.

For example, if I accept a bra from a guy who isn’t my boyfriend, it might cause trouble because a guy who is courageous enough to buy that type of gift for a lady who is just a friend wants something beyond friendship.

Personally, I see nothing wrong in it

Olaposi Tunde

Yes. Personally to me, I see nothing wrong in it because I am an open minded person. If a lady should give me such, I’ll gladly accept it without any sort of negative thought or feelings. But, I am not too sure I can give it to someone. It doesn’t have to attract any negative thought or feelings.

If it’s from a pure heart, it’s an amazing gesture which will inspire a good laughter from me.

There was a time a beautiful female friend of mine gave me something close to that and I gladly accepted it.

It depends on the boundaries

Mede Akran

It all depends on the reason the person is giving me such a gift. The motive behind the gift is more important than the person giving the gift. Let’s be realistic, we ladies have some male friends that don’t understand the need for moral boundaries when dealing with us. You can’t really blame a man if he buys such gift for a lady if he doesn’t understand boundaries. Although if I notice that a man’s motive behind such intimate gift is sexual, I won’t collect it. If I ever collect such gifts, my boyfriend has to be aware because transparency is needed in a relationship.

It is not right

Afolabi Oluwatosin Micheal

Accepting that type of gift from someone means the giver wants to initiate intimacy with the receiver. And in this society with the little we have seen, there may be ulterior motives attached to the gift.

If an individual is in a committed relationship, collecting underwear from another person might easily break the relationship.

It is weird

Boleigha Tarila

I think it’s weird for a guy who is not in a relationship with a girl to give her underwear as a gift. There are many other items that can be given as gifts such as makeup, shoes, bags but for a guy to get to the extent of getting underwear, then he is probably not giving it as a friend. But some people do not find anything wrong in it; it simply depends on the individual’s mindset.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]