China trip made me wonder if they were humans like us –– Adewale Ayuba
Fuji musician, Adewale Ayuba, speaks with TOLUWALOPE KAREEM on his recent visit to China

How often do you travel?

Due to the nature of my job, I get to travel a lot. I get to travel once in every month.

Do you find it exciting or stressful having to travel often?

Honestly, I love travelling to different places, but there are times when it can get exhausting for me. There are times when I just want to relax and rest or to have a break from all trips but I cannot do that because I will have to travel again for another show. Travelling for work isn’t for fun; travelling for pleasure is different.

How do you cope with the stress of travelling?

I thank God for that. I have got used to it and it has become a routine. During the trips, I get to sleep and relax. After shows, I do not hesitate to return to my hotel room and have a good rest. Whenever I’m abroad, I don’t go from place to place; that way, I’m able to save my energy.

Which trip would you consider as the most exciting?

That would be China; I was still there weeks ago and honestly I was still thrilled. The environment is a very beautiful place. They have fantastic infrastructure and that makes life easier for the citizens. This even shows in their public toilets. Their level of technology is superb, they have everything in place and are well organised. You hardly find people queuing for anything because almost everything is automated.

What made it special for you?

I know where I was coming from and we do not have such things in place. I told myself that they were also human beings like us, so there’s nothing stopping us from doing this kind of things.

The experience was thrilling and I could only wish my country was built that way.

How were you able to communicate?

That is one of the most thrilling parts for me; they made communication so easy that there is an application to be downloaded on your phone which would help you translate their language to yours. The application would translate Chinese to your preferred language.

Did you try any of their food?

I must say that the type of Chinese food we are used to here in Nigeria and even in some other countries is way different from the type in China. There is obviously a clear difference; it feels like the ones we eat here and in some other countries are junk. In China, their food is really organic; they do not bring out any food items or ingredients from the refrigerator. All food items are fresh.

Did you visit any historic place or landmark when you were there?

No, I didn’t go to any specific place, but to me everywhere felt special because it was such a beautiful place.

What country would you like to visit next?

I want to go to Kenya and Rwanda; they are African countries and I’ve heard a lot about them.

Do you think there are similarities between the Chinese and Nigerians?

No, I do not think there are similarities. Over there, I didn’t get to see some of the things that happen in Nigeria. For instance, the police do not harass citizens the way it is done over here.

Did you make any friends?

Yes, I did. There was a particular store I went to and was telling them about my job; they googled and found out about me. They were really impressed and that’s how we became friends.

Is there anything in Nigeria you think other countries can replicate?

Every nation has its own peculiar gifts from God. I know that when foreigners come into our country, there are lots of things to emulate. Not everything in Nigeria is bad.

What are the greatest benefits you have derived from travelling?

Travelling has opened my eyes. When you get to travel, you’ll get to meet a lot of people and relate with them. You’ll get to see different behaviours. Anything I want to do now will be done in a unique way because of my exposure. I would use my exposure to bring out unique ideas.

As a celebrity, how were you treated over there?

I didn’t go for a show; I went there on a private visit so no one knew me as a celebrity.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]