Nickname mum gave me as a baby stuck — Okpaleke
Nollywood producer, entrepreneur and health economist, Charles Okpaleke, tells TOLUWALOPE KAREEM about how he moved into the entertainment industry after starting out as an health expert

You read medical laboratory sciences at the University of Nigeria Nsukka before you proceeded abroad for a master’s degree in health economics and health policy, why did you choose that path having parents who were police officer and lawyer?

Growing up, I found myself more inclined towards the core medical sciences, as opposed to the arts or social sciences, which is so funny considering the industries I currently invest mainly in – the arts. We all know that interests tend to change at every stage in life, and I have learnt to embrace and nurture whatever interest I develop at any given time, irrespective of industry, current or past affiliations.

You’re a health economist, who is today an entrepreneur and a Nollywood movie producer, what really made you move to the entertainment industry?

Like I said earlier, I try not to limit myself as far as interests and investments are concerned. If I find myself developing an interest in any industry or anything at all, I try to nurture that interest, irrespective of my focus at that point in time. I do not believe that I either have to be one thing or the other. I owe it to God, to myself, and to the world, to explore all the possibilities.

Your father was a police officer while your mum is a legal practitioner, how did that union impact on your moral standard, view of life and belief in justice?

The moral belief system in my family, growing up was the core of our entire household, I would say. My parents were religious people, they were disciplinarians; my mother still is. Their sense of right and wrong, fair and just, definitely impacted my conscience up to this day. I try my best to satisfy my conscience in everything I do, and in every move I make, be it in my businesses, interpersonal or professional relationships.

You were called Ogbogu, meaning peacemaker by your mother. What is the origin of that name? Were you always trying to settle conflicts at home?

I have no idea why my mother called me Ogbogu. I guess she was working with her intuition, as a mother and homemaker. I was still a baby at the time. But as God would have it, I grew up to be the peacemaker in our home. Whenever there was any conflict between my parents, my siblings, and even my friends, to this day, I would more often than not be the one to make sure everyone is happy and at peace. It gives me great joy to do that, and be that, for the people I love.

You recently had a premiere for Living in Bondage: Breaking Free. The first Living in Bondage came out in 1992, and is one of the most iconic movies of the Nollywood era. Where were you when the first one came out?

I was a young boy living in eastern Nigeria when the first Living in Bondage movie came out. It was the pride of eastern Nigeria back then. Everyone talked about it. It brought families together, it made people happy. The nostalgia is one I could never forget. I soon came to realise that Living in Bondage had that same effect on people from all over Nigeria, not just the Igbo peoole. It was a unifying force for all of us, and I particularly liked that.

What really do you love about the first one that made you think of having a sequel to it?

The emotions the first movie created, the nostalgia and the unifying element to it; that movie left a huge impression on me as a young boy. All of that made Living in Bondage very special to me.

The storyline of the first Living in Bondage centred on someone who was not satisfied with his status, and joined a cult introduced to him by his friend. Did you continue from that storyline or is this completely different?

Living in Bondage: Breaking Free is a sequel to the first Living in Bondage, it is not a second part to the initial movie. The sequel has its own unique storyline that still makes references to events from the first movie, features its actors, together with new actors that make the new storyline possible to execute. In simple terms, Living in Bondage: Breaking Free focuses on the lineage of Andy Okeke, the star of the original Living in Bondage movie.

There have been many movies considered as iconic in Nollywood history. Why did you choose Living in Bondage?

While there have truly been many iconic movies in Nollywood history, for me, Charles, the original Living in Bondage movie would rank among the top five of the Nollywood movies ever created, that left such a huge impression on me, and I know so many people that would say the same.

There was something special about that movie. It blessed me with memories that I would neither forget or trade for anything. As individuals, we connect with certain people, events or things, sometimes for reasons unknown to us. The original Living in Bondage movie is one of such things for me. In addition to that, I am a businessman. I would always attempt to study the feasibility of any project I decide to invest in. I chose Living in Bondage because I believed in the power of the story, the message, its relatability and in the success potential of a sequel.

The premiere of Living in Bondage: Breaking Free had in attendance, big players in the Nollywood industry like Ramsey Nouah, Nse Ekpe Etim, Ini Edo, Chika Ike, Lilian Esoro, Gbenro Ajibade and many others, how were you able to attract all of them?

While this is my Nollywood debut as an executive producer, I have dominated sister industries and initiatives in entertainment, hospitality, nightlife and the arts for the past 12 years, and have made valuable contacts in the process. In addition to that, my brother, Ramsey Nouah, who directed the movie has paid his dues in the Nollywood industry. We all had a single vision for Living in Bondage: Breaking Free, and we were determined to work together as professionals, and as friends, to create a movie and premiere, that we would all be proud of.

The movie premieres, which we held in Lagos, Abuja and Enugu, would most certainly not have been successful without the support of the highly professional and talented actors that featured in the movie, the movie producer, Steve Gukas; line producer Chris Odeh; our media partners, sponsors and so many others that gave it their absolute best.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]