Sugabelly’s attack: I don’t respond to what makes no sense, says Pete Edochie
Mobola Sadiq

Over the week, a controversial US-based illustrator, Lotanna Odunze, aka Sugabelly, gave her two cents about the acting prowess of veteran actor, Pete Edochie.

Sugabelly wrote on her Twitter page, “Pete Edochie is a really bad actor. He’s been playing the same role his entire life.

“Acting isn’t quoting proverbs. But Nigerians live and die by seniority, so the older he gets, the less anybody is able to point this glaring elephant in the room out.”

Her audacious statement however triggered diverse reactions on Twitter.

Many of the people who commented on the post said Sugabelly’s statements were borne out of ignorance and malice. Some people also dug up Edochie’s past achievements to rubbish her claims.

When Sunday Scoop reached out to Edochie who is considered one of Africa’s most talented actors, asking him to react to Sugabelly’s statement, he said everyone was entitled to their opinion because what mattered to him was that he’s alive, kicking and enjoying himself.

SEE ALSO: NSCDC official shoots Lagos tricycle rider for overtaking van

‘‘I’ll be honest with you: I’m indifferent to opinions expressed about me, because they don’t make sense to me. If Pete Edochie is a fantastic actor, thank you very much.

“It doesn’t mean anything to me; it has absolutely nothing to do with me. If you start responding to things that don’t make sense, there is that danger of reducing yourself to the level of that person.

“I’m mentally occupied 24 hours on a daily basis. I trained formally as a broadcaster and by the grace of God, I happen to be an articulate individual. I don’t have to advertise that, every other person knows that.

“I don’t even see most of these things and I don’t give a damn about it and don’t care. You have a right to express any opinion about me but it doesn’t mean anything to me.

“I have 13 grandchildren and I have been successfully married for 50 years. I’m living in my own house and comfortable.

“I don’t have time for all these things. What matters is that Pete Edochie is alive, kicking and enjoying himself.

“On April 7, I’ll be 73. There are few people of my age who are active. If I start responding to individuals, it means that I don’t appreciate God who created me.”

A particular Sugabelly follower, @neneOkposuogu, wrote, “He isn’t a bad actor. You could say that he acts particular roles, but compare him with other actors who play the same roles and the difference is clear. Don’t knock talent, professionalism and longevity. He’s a national treasure.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]