Body Magic: Singers who promote their music sensually
Tofarati Ige

Ex sells! And entertainers have taken advantage of this since time immemorial to promote their crafts. Producers and directors often introduce sex scenes into their movies to attract viewers. Musicians talk about sex unabashedly in their songs because they know they (the songs) would travel farther that way. Even writers are not left out. They often make sure to include graphic descriptions of intimate acts in their books to sate the curiosity of readers.

Little wonder then that the average Nigerian music video looks like a soft porn flick with scantily dressed ladies baring and shaking their endowments, all in a bid to arrest the rapt attention of viewers.

In Nigeria, however, many people have a hypocritical approach to sex-related issues. Most folks openly condemn public shows of sex and other intimate actions. But in the confines of their closets, they go back to ‘devour’ those same materials they vehemently railed against.

A singer and ‘nudist’, Maheeda, who is fond of posting semi-nude pictures on her Instagram page, once told our correspondent that most of the people who abused her in the comment sections of her post usually sent her private messages, literally begging to have a piece of her.

Recently, singer Tekno was in the news when a truck with transparent windows conveying half-naked girls was spotted on the streets of Lagos. The singer used the stunt to promote his new music then. As is usually the case, many condemned Tekno’s action as being immoral, but the matter trended for several days on the Internet because the curiosity of people was piqued by the sexual element.

This piece looks at some of the top female artistes in the country who have perfected the art of promoting their music with sexual appeal.

Tiwa Savage

It is incontestable that Tiwa Savage is talented. With several hits to her name, the London-returnee can be said to have paid her dues.

However, perhaps as a result of being exposed to the more sophisticated entertainment industry in the Western world, Tiwa knew early on that talent is never enough to sell an artiste. From her first video, Kele Kele Love, the singer has always put herself out there as a sensual person.

Though she may not have abundant curves, Savage does know how to use what she has.

Years ago, her music video, ‘Wanted’, caught the attention of many as a result of the see-through outfit she wore in it, and the sensual way she moved with the male dancer. She was criticised for the video, but just as the complaints grew, so did her fan base swell rapidly. The singer is also known to wear skimpy outfits to shows and other red carpet events.

Having become bolder and more adept at exploring sensuous themes to promote her brand, the singer and her colleague/friend, Wizkid, practically threw the Internet into a frenzy when they both featured in the latter’s music video, ‘Fever’. In the highly erotic video, both singers lavished each other with kisses and sensual touches. Of course, this was like adding fuel to the already raging ‘fire’ that the duo was more than just friends. Raking millions of views within days of its release without much publicity, the video went viral in every sense of that word.

Obviously, Savage’s strategy is working as she is regarded as one of the biggest African entertainers at the moment.

Yemi Alade

Blessed with a shape that would elicit multiple glances from the male folk, Yemi Alade is a sight for sore eyes.

She is also a good dancer and the sensual way she moves her body has led many to fantasise about her.

Though she didn’t initially adopt this style to promote herself, Alade soon ‘got the memo’ that she could use what she had to get what she wanted. She then began to flaunt her natural endowments more.

Her hit single, ‘Johnny’ was, at a time, the highest viewed Nigerian music video on YouTube. And though the song is interesting with a catchy chorus, it doesn’t take a genius to deduce that it attracted so many views because of the bevy of beautiful ladies in the video and their titillating dance moves.

Alade has repeated the strategy in most of her videos, thus it is not unexpected that she keeps on having new fans in different parts of the world.

Seyi Shay

Seyi Shay came into the industry determined to stake her claim to the music throne. Right from her first music video, ‘Irawo’, Shay made no pretences that she would use her feminine allure to put herself in the spotlight.

Without discrediting her talent in any way, it is also clear that much of the interest the singer has generated can be traced to the sexual appeal she constantly exudes.

In her latest music video, ‘Gimme Love Remix’ with Teyanna Taylor, the sexual chemistry between Seyi and the male model in it was so thick that it could be cut with a knife. Shay was all over the hunk, showering him with kisses and smooches, and he apparently didn’t have any qualms soaking it all in. The video was so erotic that many fans asked the model on social media if he wasn’t sexually aroused while shooting it.

Niniola

A Project Fame alumna, Niniola Apata, has come a long way in the music industry. Dedicated and hardworking, she has consistently put in a lot of work to build her career and she is presently reaping the ‘fruits of her labour’.

Gifted with curves in all the right places, Niniola seems to bring another meaning to the word, ‘sexy’. Also a good dancer, Niniola is adept at flaunting her backside to good effect. The entertainer always makes sure to go for clothes that enhance her sensuality, and the formula does work for her.

A delight to watch on stage, Niniola is one entertainer that takes her performances seriously. Obviously, show promoters and party lovers have taken notice, and it is thus not surprising that the singer is a staple at major shows across the country.

Cynthia Morgan

Though she seems to have been out of circulation for a while, Cynthia Morgan, aka Madrina, has a body that cannot be forgotten in a hurry. As a matter of fact, in her case, absence does make the heart grow fonder as her fans have been relentless in their calls for her to be more active on the music scene.

Unimpeachably sexy, Morgan, also has a take-no-prisoners attitude that makes her irresistible to her fans. The singer is also a bit of a tomboy but that does not subtract from her allure.

The energy she puts into her performances, both on stage and in music videos, is infectious, and she always ensures she gives her fans what they want.

Many of her followers have publicly confessed to having a crush on her, and the reason is not far-fetched— her tantalising figure is enough to make any warm-blooded man go weak in the knees.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]