Controversy surrounds Regina Daniels’ real age
Mobola Sadiq

Actress and social media influencer, Regina Daniels, recently celebrated her first birthday since she got married to Prince Ned Nwoko, 58, a Nigerian lawyer, politician, and businessman.

The young bride, who has become an Internet sensation, attracted criticisms from many social media users on her birthday as they painstakingly debated her real age.

In a series of Twitter posts, many users had a field day giving their opinions about how old they thought she was.

One @IamChiomaa wrote, “I am not understanding. Regina Daniels was 16 last year, now she’s 22? I thought 17 comes after 16? Is it now 22?”

Another user @itz_laolao, wrote, “Regina Daniels was 16 last year and now she is celebrating being 22. Wetin Rema no go see for car.”

One Williams_Chriz also said, “Please where are they selling age around? How can Regina Daniels that was born two days ago be older than me just like that?”

Angel Malaika, @534Dahkeed, said; “I was two years older than Regina Daniels. 2019, Regina Daniels is now two years older than me. Was I in a coma that I didn’t know of?”

“Regina Daniels went from 16 to 22 in a matter of months. The God of Thanos must have snapped his fingers in her life,” another user added.

Amidst the age controversies, Regina’s mother, Mrs Rita Daniels, maintained that her popular daughter turned 20 on October 10, 2019.

In an online video interview, Daniels said her daughter is also wiser than her age and more knowledgeable than most people.

However, Regina’s Wikipedia page states that she was born on October 10, 2000.

Meanwhile, the young bride seems to be unperturbed about the age debate online. She took to her Instagram page to post clips of her birthday celebration with her hubby and some close friends.

READ ALSO: We were tricked into slavery, starved for days –Katsina indigenes rescued from Burkina Faso

Regina wrote, “Sometimes, someone comes into your life, so unexpectedly, takes your heart by surprise and changes your life forever @greatprincened.”

Her smitten hubby also followed suit with a thoughtful birthday message on his Instagram page. “Happy birthday to a wonderful and beautiful wife. I wish you many joyous and healthy years ahead. I love you,” his message read.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]