After my skit on dieting, over 1,000 women sent feedbacks –Etinosa
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Actor and producer, Etinosa Idemudia, started a trend on social media, tagged – Chop this life – after she released a video about how she couldn’t punish herself by being on a diet. In an interview with Saturday Beats, the Edo State-born comedienne noted that she received a lot of messages from women with self-esteem issues after the video went viral.

“I had recently been on a very stressful diet to lose weight. The night I made the video, I wanted to eat something heavy but my personal assistant said, ‘you are on a diet’, and I lost it. I told her ‘I can’t kill myself abeg’, then it hit me. A lot of people are going through this same thing. ‘Turn on the camera’, I told her. And that was how I made the video while eating.

“I was shocked over a thousand women sent feedbacks on struggling with self-esteem issues and how they felt relieved after watching the video.

“You see, feedbacks like this are part of the things that keep me going, knowing I’m touching lives. Filmmaking for me isn’t just for the sake of it. Comedy skits are more than just me trying to be funny. It’s my ministry. I am a minister and I don’t have to climb the pulpit or collect tithes,” she said.

Asked about her opinion about the pressure women face from the society to stay sexy, she described the pressure as huge. However, she advised women not to ever compare themselves with anyone.

“Yes, the pressure is huge, but I just want to say ‘be yourself, be happy, don’t stop growing and improving yourself. Don’t compare yourself to anyone’. All of us are imperfect together. All of us are broken together. Nobody should intimidate you,” she added.

Etinosa also revealed how her parents reacted to her decision to leave engineering for acting. She noted that her mother wasn’t surprised, but that her father had a hard time adjusting to the development.

“My mum had always known my heart desire, so she wasn’t surprised. It was my dad who had a hard time adjusting to it because I was the only one (in the family) who was following in his footsteps.

“Producing ‘The Washerman’ movie has been my biggest achievement so far. I wanted to make a difference, tell a story that would minister to people. I wanted to make a good film. Not only was ‘The Washerman’ a good film, in less than two weeks of its release, it became a big film.

“I have thought of doing stand-up comedy several times because I love making people happy off screen and on screen, but I’m better at acting than at telling jokes. I have not had the time to work on the transition though. My life experiences inspire my skits. Comedy is my way of the addressing serious issues around my life and that of people around me,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]