My wife isn’t bothered about funny stories about me –Bolanle Ninalowo
Tofarati Ige

Actor, Bolanle Ninalowo, aka Nino B; and his colleague, Moyo Lawal, became a trending topic online when a picture of them in a cosy position surfaced online. In the picture, Bolanle had his head close to Moyo’s ample bosom. However, what made the story more hilarious was the fact that a Yoruba magazine published the story on its cover page and added a caption which indicated that Bolanle squeezed Lawal’s breasts ‘mercilessly’.

Considering that Ninalowo recently reconciled with his wife and mother of his children, Sunday Scoop reached out to him to find out if she wasn’t upset about the story. But according to Nino B, she understands the entertainment industry and isn’t ruffled by such reports. He said, “Thank God for grace that things have become better between me and my wife. We always had a bond because we got together at an early age. I was 24 years old while she was 23. We had dreams of who we are today but life happens. She understands the entertainment industry. As regards that picture, she didn’t even talk about it because she knows it’s one of those things. Our reconciliation has restored our bond; even on a greater level.”

Speaking on what to expect from him in 2019, Ninalowo said, “I believe that there is a lot I have done over the years and there is still so much that will be done by God’s grace. I’m moving at top speed. Everything I have been able to do so far has been as a result of God’s grace. I pray to see more of His grace and do more. There’s really no manual to succeeding in the industry; it’s all about God’s blessings. One just has to keep working and praying.

“Right now, I can say that I am definitely satisfied with the rate at which I get scripts. I am always booked months ahead. This January alone, I have been booked for eight jobs. A lot is going on and I am grateful to God that He is putting food on my table. The future is bright.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]