Being married to my producer has made my job easier —Mobolaji Olayinka (Psalmos)
Background

I am from Ekiti State and I was born there but I grew up in Lagos. I am the sixth child and the last offspring of my mother.

Education

I have a Diploma in Banking and Finance from the University of Ado-Ekiti and a Bachelor in Industrial Relations and Personnel Management from the Lagos State University, Lagos State.

Career

I have always loved singing from when I was a kid but I didn’t start from my mother’s womb like some will say. As a child, I recall holding a ruler in front of the mirror, singing and dancing. Prior to music, I had a career in banking. Music started when I was working in the bank and I knew that God wanted me to do music; so, I left. Since then, music has been my number one hustle.

Parent’s reaction

I am from a broken home and I stayed with my mum after she separated from my dad. However, at the time I started music, I had already lost my mum. So, when I wanted to quit my job at the bank, I didn’t have to ask for anybody’s permission.

Music

I do more of African tunes because it is important to me; I also do dancehall. No matter the song I work on, I will always put a touch of my mother tongue in it.

However, the song that brought me to the limelight was Ku ishe featuring Kenny K’ore. It is a remix of an old Ekiti song. At that time, I had recently lost my mum and I missed her so much. So, I decided to do the song that she loved singing. Some of my other songs include E good, Miracle working God and Orin tuntun.

Secular

I don’t see myself featuring a secular artiste in my songs but it would be a different scenario if I was invited to sing along with secular artistes on a project. Then, I will sing. But personally, I can’t invite them to sing on my project.

Gone are the days when it was believed that gospel artistes don’t go far; now, we are taking over. For example, Na ra by Tim Geoffrey and Logan ti ode by Tope Alabi broke the Internet. We are taking over and heaven is our limit. We have the content and the voice.

Challenges

I wouldn’t call them challenges; rather, I see them as lessons because those are the things I have learnt over time. I have learnt to keep working even when it looks like nobody is listening to you. However, you must make sure you have good content. There was a time when I wasn’t going to concerts but right now, I minister at concerts back-to-back. Last year, I was so busy with concerts till December 31, and this year is already taking that shape. When I first came into the music industry, the challenge I had was in being accepted because lots of good and new people were constantly emerging. I also took a little break from my career when I started having children and it was quite difficult when I wanted to return to the industry.

Current projects

I will be releasing a dancehall song soon though I cannot reveal the title until it is out. I am also working on another album.

Marriage

My marriage has been wonderful. It is a lot more convenient when you are married to your producer; it makes the work easier for you. Also, I thank God because he is an understanding man. We go out together and come back late at night. He understands whenever I tell him that I am tired. It is not easy doing music and raising young children. If I had married someone who doesn’t understand the music business, it would have been very difficult for us.

Motherhood

I waited for five years (after marriage) before I gave birth and it is not something I pray for anyone. It wasn’t a good experience but at the end of it all, I am grateful to God for coming through for me. My waiting period was very challenging because as a gospel minister, I go out to minister to people and they get blessed while I come back and lay on my bed, either crying or thinking about the fact that I don’t have children. I prayed, fasted and did all I could but it didn’t come on time. At a point, I got tired of asking God for a child, especially when I observed my menstrual cycle. Pressure from family members was also overwhelming but my husband kept on encouraging me with his reassuring love.

Role models

I love everybody and I can’t mention specific names because many people have been a blessing to me one way or the other.

Relaxation

When I am not working, I stay at home with my family. And I read when I have the time to.

Fashion

I love to dress simply. I also love to wear boots but I don’t get to wear them often because I can’t show up in a church looking like a rock star.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]