Music is no longer financially rewarding –Alariwo
Chux Ohai

Crossover music star, Rotimi Martins, also known as Alariwo of Africa, has said that he decided to take a break from music in order to focus on other things.

The singer said this in response to enquiries from music fans regarding his career.

Alariwo, in a telephone interview with our correspondent, admitted that music was no longer his top priority and he was not in a hurry to get back to the recording studio.

“I will go back to music only if God tells me. I am taking my time to decide when to go back to music. I want to wait for the right time to do so. Directives come from the inner mind. When my inner mind directs me to return to the studio, I won’t hesitate to do so,” he said.

Asked if he decided to take a break from music, especially at a time that his wealth of experience was needed in the music industry, in order to survive the hard times, the singer replied, “This is not about survival or getting more money. It is about doing what gives you deep satisfaction. The kind of music that I play is no longer as financially rewarding as it used to be. But then, music has never really been my passion. It is more like a hobby to me. My real passion is the media.

“For now, I am fully involved in the media. I do consultancy and events management. I run my own audio and visual studio, as well as a public relations company. I develop brands.

“Also, I organise an annual awards event in Oyo State. It is called Pacesetters Entertainment and Recognition Award. The Ministry of Information, Culture and Tourism and I are collaborating on this project. We have organised two successive editions of the award so far. The first one was held on December 3, 2017.

The objective is to honour natives and residents of Oyo State who are doing well in their chosen careers.”

Although he never considered this to be an alternative to a thriving music career, Alariwo said that the switch was necessary. He said, “As a media practitioner, sometimes I need to come up with a concept like this and develop it in order to encourage other people. Music lives inside me. If want to record a song, I will go to my studio and do it. But I’m not ready for music now. I have to turn to other things.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]