Obey and I often pretended to be at loggerheads – KSA
Juju maestro, Sunday Adegeye, popularly known as King Sunny Ade, speaks with PETER DADA about his personal life, music, and style, among others

What is the secret behind your youthful look at 73?

I have been asked this question several times and I always say it is by the grace of God. I also believe that my fans made me look like this because they engage me with shows, and on the stage, I dance and jump around. That is a form of exercise on its own. I will also say I have been lucky, so I thank God. My mother also had a unique stature. I neither smoke nor drink.

People believe that musicians often get intoxicated by taking alcohol or drugs before their performances. What do you take to be so energetic on stage?

It is difficult for me to explain but I don’t drug to perform on stage. It comes naturally to me.

How did you begin your journey into the music industry?

I was told by my mother that I was born on September 22, 1946, in Ondo town, but I grew up and schooled in Osogbo (Osun State). I went to African School, Methodist School, and I also did a bit of my college at St Benedict, and St Charles (all in Osogbo) but I didn’t finish there because I loved music so much. I ran away to meet Moses Olaiya, popularly called Baba Sala. He was a musician but many people didn’t know he was one – he played the guitars, accordion and other instruments.

At the time Mose Olaiya diverted from music to theatre, did you join them?

He did not divert, he only formed another group called Moses Olaiya Travelling Theatre. He loved theatre but he was not part of them. The theatre group was a separate department while we, the musicians, were on our own. Pa Olaiya was the leader of the band, while one of his wives and his brother were handling the theatre. I had actually spent about three years with them before the formation of the theatre group. But I was the first to be transferred to the theatre group to handle the music side of it because I played the percussions and other instruments. I could also dance, so we were the ones that did the opening scenes.

At the time you were there, was your mother not looking for you?

It was so funny, and I pray none of my children would do that. I often sent messages to her through drivers in the motor park because she was popular in Osogbo. She was a caterer and used to cater to about 600 people in a day. So, I sent a message to her that I was then a student of the University of Lagos, and according to the messenger, my mother jumped up (with joy) but said that she wanted to hear my voice. She said since I left home during the holidays, I should also return home during the holidays. It was not like now when one could just pick up the phone and call the school to confirm. I often say I’m one of the luckiest persons.

When did you start your own band?

I started my band in 1966.

Can you compare music then and now?

You cannot compare the music of a particular time with another because music keeps evolving. Music is seasonal. The future will become current while the current will become the past. However, at that time, all of us had a passion for music, although it was difficult to do music if your family didn’t permit you. The only Nigerian families that allowed their children to do music were those outside the shores of the country. Then, it was difficult to tell my family; even my sisters and brothers didn’t know I had become a musician.

When your mother eventually knew that you were into music, how did she react?

I later went home to explain myself because I felt I had committed a sin. I begged God to allow them to forgive me. So, I went home, very well dressed and with the little money I had. I was the youngest in the band then, so I had no wife or responsibilities. Whenever I got money, I saved it. While with the band, I was an errand boy for everybody since I was the youngest. Whenever we ordered for food, the extra was always mine.

READ ALSO: I read, swim to take my mind off sex – Hannah Ogundare

How many years did you spend with Baba Sala’s band?

I was there for about four years.

Who were your contemporaries when you started your band?

Back then, Baba Sala worked with the Lagos Town Council as a sanitary inspector. So, it was whenever he had the time that he would join us as the leader of the band, except weekends when he was fully with us. He had a very good friend then called Chief Tunde Amuwo. He was so popular and owned a band called, Tunde Amuwo and His High Society Band. He was the one that usually played for the Action Group in those days. But when another government took over from the Action Group, his instruments were just idle.

He then called me and said he had instruments at home which he would like to give to me for me to start a band. But I told him Baba Sala was like a father to me and I couldn’t bite the fingers that fed me. However, some months later, Baba Sala called me and said a friend of his wanted to give me some instruments. He went on to say opportunities were meant to be grabbed, that I should take the offer and if after nine months, I didn’t find it easy, I could come back to his band. I will never forget that day because I was close to tears. I eventually didn’t know what to do, and I became sick.

Later, I called one of my roommates, who was also a musician but didn’t play with our group (because I didn’t want to touch the group at all). We went to Western Coliseum in Apongbon area of Lagos to check the instruments. They were exactly like the ones Baba Sala, IK Dairo, Roy Chicago had. I then decided to give it a try since I had nine months’ grace. Within me, I decided that even before the expiration of the nine months, I would go back to Baba Sala because I didn’t want to lose the band. But today, I have yet to go back.

It took us a month to get a name for the band and members to join. We eventually called it the High Society Band led by Sunny Ade. By that time, I could not call my name in full.

Why didn’t you use your real name?

I didn’t do that because they would know it was me at home, so I shortened Sunday to Sunny and Adegeye to Ade.

How lucrative was the music business then?

Back then, everybody that played instruments was passionate about it. It was only the big stars such as IK Dairo, Ayinde Bakare, Tunde Nightingale, Tunde Kings, and JO Araba, that were making money then. I really didn’t know how musicians made money then because I was not making money. However, we were happy because we did the job with passion.

People perceived you and Chief Ebenezer Obey as rivals who always attacked each other with songs. Why were you always fighting?

It was the fans that believed we were always fighting. Obey and I had been friends since we began our bands and we are still friends till date. He started his band a year before me. Also, we pretended to be fighting in order for our fans to enjoy our music. Then, we used to play at night clubs, and where he was playing wasn’t far from where I played. I recall that the fans would go and disrupt his band, and later come to disturb us too. One day, I went to his (Obey) house to meet him behind closed doors.

I asked him how we could manage the situation, and he also asked for my suggestion. We both agreed to change the date of our performances at the club. He chose Thursdays while I maintained Wednesdays. Later, we also pretended to our seniors that we had a misunderstanding, so I invited Pa IK Dairo, Haruna Ishola, Adeolu Akinsanya and two others, to help settle the rift. For a long time, to avoid clashes of our fans, if I had a show, I would ask if Ebenezer Obey was going to be there. If they said yes, I wouldn’t go; and that was the same thing he did too. Our elders then told us there should be no more fight between us, and we should make records to appease our fans. So, when I sang, he replied too. As the two of us were holding the meeting in his house, we just heard a bang on the door and somebody (Olabisi Ajala) was shouting that so the two of us were friends, yet we were pretending otherwise. We didn’t open the door but we had already agreed on how we would be doing things from then on. I have to thank God for his (Obey) life because he later got a call from God and became a cleric. The bottom line is that we have always been friends. We later advised young musicians that they don’t need to fight or destroy one another’s shows because of unnecessary rivalry.

How do you manage urchins so that they don’t disrupt your shows?

I have only experienced people disrupting my show once. Whenever the ‘area boys’ come to my show, I don’t rebuke them. I call them my stakeholders because when we finish the show, I give them their own share of the money. I don’t have problems with them.

You started your band 52 years ago. What are the challenges you encountered over the years?

There have been numerous challenges but I thank God that we have been able to overcome them. It is normal for one to face challenges in the course of life. As a band, members come from different places and have different characters. It is only through wisdom bestowed from God that one can manage people in the band. Along the line, some would leave the band and others would join.

Which notable challenge can you recall?

There have been too many to mention. Can you imagine a situation where there was no quarrel among us in Nigeria, but when we got outside the country, the band just broke up? We were about to start a show when the boys abandoned me and said they were no longer working. We went abroad as one band and returned home scattered. It was just like they planned a coup against me. However, some of them later returned.

How did you manage the situation that the ‘coup’ did not affect the said show?

I raised a second band because that is what I usually did. I had a second band whose members were on their own, and I used to go to them whenever I needed their assistance. On that day, I quickly went to them and got their assistance, and those that plotted the ‘coup’ against me were disappointed. That was how I overcame the challenge.

As a popular musician, you have many fans, especially female ones. How do you manage them?

When fans ‘rush’ at you from all angles, it is because they appreciate you. I consider my female fans to be my friends, supporters, wives and mothers. I always appreciate them.

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: People teased me, said I was impotent – Man whose wife had quadruplets after 15 years’ delay

As a popular and busy person, how do you manage your home?

I would say that I have been lucky because I have never married around where I play. I usually go far away. So any woman I meet, I always tell her the truth about myself. I don’t lie to women, so I don’t have a problem with my home. Any child I have anywhere, I make sure I christen him or her in my house. I thank God for my children because they believe in what I do.

Since you have children from different women, does that confirm your belief in polygamy?

I am a polygamist, there is no doubt about that but I don’t like talking about it and I have never mentioned it in any of my records. But I thank God for my home, I have been able to keep my home, I have never seen my children arguing or fighting, I have been able to unite them. As I said, I have never got a child outside without coming to my house for christening. I have never married a woman without having the consent of her parents. So I have a united family, all my children love me and I thank God for that, it is not my making.

If any of your children takes music as a profession, will you give him or her support?

I have boys and girls that are very good singers and dancers. I am KSA, one is already addressing himself as PSA, I am King Sunny Ade, another one is already calling herself Queen Sunny Ade, some of them are already performing on the stage. But I insisted that they must first get an education first. Some of my grandchildren play keyboard, violin and other instruments. But what is topmost for me is their education. But those that are not interested in music, I have been trying my best for them. One of them is in charge of my printing press.

Do any of your children take after your line of music?

As I said, there are many in the house (who are into music), but what I owe them first, is their education. I didn’t go to university, even though I have many honorary degrees from different universities. However, if my children have a university education, it means I have a university education as well.

You did not have a university education, yet you speak good English, how did you do it?

I thank God for that. When you pretend that you are a graduate, you must find ways to make sure you move nearer to that. I tried to learn it by personal effort. I read anything I see in the paper. As you are talking to me now, I have learnt some things from you, the way you pronounce some words and so on. But luckily for me, all my companies are full of graduates and when I am in the board room talking, I have to address them in English. And if I am wrong, I will ask them to correct me so that I will not go and embarrass myself when I get outside. I trained myself to that level as well.

What do you plan to set as a legacy after you have left the stage?

I thank God for the grace, I have been able to do something. You have seen my radio station; I am currently working on my school, my music academic is ongoing, I’m investing in the school because it would contain many things.

You seem to have relocated to Ondo, your hometown, are you tired of Lagos life?

I have not relocated to Ondo permanently. What is making me spend more time in Ondo is to enable me to supervise some of my projects.

With a lot of activities you are involved in, how do you relax?

As you are with me here, I am relaxing

And when I am gone, what happens?

In my house here, I have a lot of games that I play and I do sleep when the sleep comes. As a musician, I don’t really have a specific time to sleep. I may say I want to go and sleep and an idea comes to my mind, I will quickly take my pen and put it down.

Again in the last five years, I read all the messages on my phone from 12 am to 4 am every day. I do have thousands of Whatsapp messages on my phone. People love talking to me via messages and I do reply them within that time.

Some years ago, you were ill and there were so many insinuations, that it was over for KSA, did you have the same line of thought?

No, because I believe in God, and I said when you said it’s over, then it is. I don’t need to say to my soul that it is over. By that time people didn’t really know what happened, but I discovered what went wrong later. It was because I overworked myself and the second one was that I did not drink water for one and a half years. I always drank tea. It was the time we had this saltwater in Lagos, so I decided, although from the outset I love to drink tea, I thanked God people really prayed for me. Doctors too tried. They left my hospital room open because people were trouping in and out. Some people will come and say they wanted to pray outside but the doctor on duty would allow them and said as long as my patient is safe. That time that I was in the hospital, I would sneak out, go for a show and come back. During that time, I was doing one film titled ‘Fopomoyo’ ( by Jimoh Aliu Theatre Group) I happened to act as a king there; I had to leave Lagos in the morning to Ado Ekiti, probably in the morning of the second day and ran back. So, when I discovered it was the lack of drinking water, I went for treatment. My friend, Dr Raymond Dokpesi, gave me his mansion to stay. He loves me to the extent that he could give me part of his body if possible. People were trouping to my house and I didn’t want that so I had to do what I could do, I took my time to recuperate.

When you were abroad for treatment, didn’t you feel members of your band could betray you again?

I gave kudos to them. They were 100 per cent loyal. They even wrote a song, called “Bo ba rera, oye ka sinmi, ara ki sokuta,” and I thanked everybody including the press.

What is your advice to the young generation of musicians?

I used to advise them and I will continue to do that. What they need to do is very simple. Look at what your predecessor has done and pick the good ones, join it with yours. Also, they have to respect the elders, respect yourself, respect the law of the country and make sure your family members are not been disgraced, then concentrate on what you want to do. Never be arrogant. There are musicians before you and there will be musicians after you.

Are you happy with the trend in music nowadays?

I will say 1 am happy. One of the reasons is this. Before now, many families didn’t allow their children to do music because of the notion that music was for unserious children.

But now, the orientation has changed. Parents even bring their children to me to train. Now they go to school to learn music; they go to church and learn music. There are lots of children now playing drums and a lot of other instruments.

Now it’s our music. Before, it was 80 per cent foreign and 20 per cent ours. But now it’s the other way round and that is a very good development.

What about the content of the songs?

It’s just an advice. Musicians should sing songs they will not regret in 20 years’ time. Obey and I made the mistake before. However, we later reversed some of the songs. This was because we did not understand initially. If as beautiful as you are now, you now dance naked, in 10 years’ time when your child sees you, what will you say? She might want to copy you to dance naked. What will you say? Will you be able to defend what you sang 20 years to come?

When is King Sunny Ade retiring?

If you ask that, I would say, it is not a question because no musician ever retires. Music is in the blood, no matter how old you are, you can only retire from the stage. Pa Rolling Dollars was 90 years old when he wrote “Won kere si number wa,” You can see how I danced with him on the stage. Do you want to say he should have retired before then?

Like how many records have you done so far?

About 120.

Do you have any plan to compile them into one disc?

I am on it, simply because I just won a legal case on some of my records.

How do you handle the problem of piracy?

Well, I am praying to God to give our government the wisdom to know what to do and also for Jesus Christ to touch the heart of those that do that. These days, you don’t have to even tell a particular person to sell your records. Just go to the Internet. It is simple. Even the people printing CDs too are going out of business. So the more people subscribe to your songs via the Internet, the more money comes in for you. Therefore, you can see that half of the bread is becoming better than the real food.

Do you have a forum where you counsel young musicians?

No, we don’t really have a forum but whenever we have the opportunity to meet them, we call them and offer our elderly advice to them.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]