I’ll never quit acting for a man — Uche Nwaefuna
Olajide Samuel

Background

My most memorable childhood experience was going on several boat rides with my siblings, cousins and uncles.

As a child, I wanted to be a beauty queen. I also wanted to be an actress and a newscaster. I wanted to be a fashion designer, too. Basically, I wanted to be so many things at different times.

Education

I attended Loral International School, Festac, Lagos, for my elementary education. And for my secondary education, I attended The International School.

Nollywood

There are levels in this industry, and there is a process called growth. One should not expect to start earning what an A-list actor gets paid from when one gets into the industry. I have grown and I will continue to grow. I am trying to understand the business side of my craft more. I don’t think the money is bad. I get paid well enough to take care of myself. However, it might not be enough for one if one’s taste is high and one wants to cruise the latest expensive cars. For an average girl who is out of school and trying to survive, I think the pay is good.

Parental support

My parents have always been supportive. My mother was just worried because I was doing my Law diploma while also pursuing my modelling career.

Movies

The first movie I acted in was titled, Poison Ivy. I played the role of a maid in the film but I only appeared in a few scenes.

Scripts

I am always moved by the story, but I do have my limits. If the story requires me to do certain things for a beautiful story to be told, I am all in.

What I look out for whenever I get a movie script is the storyline first, and then we can talk about the pay. Though one must eat and therefore consider money, but the storyline is everything to me. I am very picky. I love roles that I can relate to, that can touch lives and can be entertaining at the same time. So it has to be the storyline first.

Roles

I will love to play the role of a woman who is a victim of domestic violence, and that of a child who has been abused. I will also love to play the role of a woman who is suffering from a terminal illness and struggling for her life. Most times, I am given a ‘fine girl role’ but I want people to see that I can do way more than that.

Lessons

I have learnt that one can never know too much. One should always be ready to learn. Be very patient and consistent. One also needs to be open to criticisms.

Challenges

When I joined the industry, people said I was new and doubted my acting ability. Not given a chance at first was a major challenge. Many people weren’t sure if I could act. It actually took me some time to prove myself. But here we are today. I’m thankful.

City Crimes

My role in the movie, City Crimes, was amazing. With the help and cooperation of the wonderful cast and crew who stopped at nothing to get the best out of me, I was able to deliver. I am also thankful to my director. It took me a lot of time to research the role. It was my first time of playing such an intense role. I was open to learning and criticisms. I am a very quick learner, so I learnt a lot during the shoot. I did my research and we pulled it off.

READ ALSO: It’s nobody’s business if I’m a gigolo —Aremu Afolayan

Sexual harassment

I have never being sexually harassed in the course of doing my job. Everything is acting and choreographed.

Other interests

I own a production house and I rent it out for photography, filming and video shoots, and other activities. I am also a brand influencer.

Personality

People don’t know that I love to party. As much as I work, I love to go out and have fun.

Fans

I don’t think I have ever had an embarrassing moment with a fan. I won’t call the moments I have with my beautiful fans embarrassing.

Attention

My pretty smile gets me the most attention at first before you see my curves.

Men

I like a man who is kind, patient and ambitious. I love a man that is always willing to talk things through, and is constantly working towards being better. I love a man that yearns for success as much as I do. I love a man who is soft-spoken, compassionate, loves kids, and can bring me out of my bad moods. Also, I love a man that has money.

I can never quit acting for any man. A man that puts me in that kind of position isn’t who I should be with in the first place. I want a man that supports my dream and helps me with my goals. If I have to quit my dream for a man, then it was never a dream; it was just something I was doing for fun.

Fashion

I love to wear anything that is comfortable, sexy and classy. I wouldn’t go naked in the name of fashion.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]