I read, swim to take my mind off sex – Hannah Ogundare
Tofarati Ige

Actress, Hannah Ogundare, has dashed the hopes of many men in the entertainment industry, who may have been entertaining thoughts of making her an item. In a chat with Sunday Scoop, the sexy actress ruled out dating anyone in the industry. She said, “I cannot (date anyone in the entertainment industry). I like my man to be quiet. I don’t want someone who would be on social media fighting with people. I like private persons. I want a man that has God, love, wealth…in short, everything. It is normal for guys to woo one, and as a lady, one should know how to put them in their place as friends.”

Ogundare, who trended online sometime ago, when she allegedly said in an interview that she didn’t need a boyfriend to have sex, claimed that her words were misconstrued. In a chat with a national daily (not PUNCH), she was quoted as saying she could arrange to have sex whenever she had the urge. Explaining what she really meant, the Economics graduate of the Houdegbe North American University, Benin Republic, said, “I recall that the interview was posted on the Internet and people insulted me, though I don’t take things like that seriously. I just laugh over such comments– whether negative or positive. Back to the question– it was an oral interview, so I’m sure the writer didn’t really understand what I meant. I only said that if the need arose, I could do other things that would distract me from thinking about sex. I could go swimming, reading, or be involved in other activities. That was what I actually meant but some people twisted my words. However, I am never afraid to express myself.”

On why she deleted practically all her personal pictures, especially the sensual ones, on Instagram a while back, Ogundare said, “The attention was getting too much, and I wanted to keep a low profile. I also noticed that I was losing followers on the social network, so I had to delete some of those (sexy) pictures.”

The Doctor Romilayo actress also informed Sunday Scoop that she had taken a break from appearing in movies for some time now.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]