I’ve paid television stations to air my programmes – Kayode Peters
Comedian, filmmaker and actor, Kayode Peters, speaks with KORE OGIDAN about his experience in the movie industry

How best can you describe your journey through the movie industry?

It has been rough and tough but through it all, I can smile now because I was dogged enough to stick to my craft and what I knew I could do. God being on my side, it has paid off. However, from the onset, it was very rough. I graduated from the University of Lagos, Akoka, with a degree in English Language. I promised myself that I’d never work under anyone or have a corporate job, but that I’d stick to acting and film making. I produced my television series, Twilight Zone, in 2000, immediately after graduation. I didn’t have the funds to run a project, so I carried the camera myself, wrote the scripts and many other things. In fact, there was no money to make photocopies of the scripts, so it was the handwritten one that we circulated amongst the actors, who then took turns to get their lines. Even to send the tapes to television stations was a challenge. I often walked from UNILAG to Ikeja to drop the tapes, so they could air. People had taken a liking to the show and because there was a request for it, I had to ensure that the show got to the station every week for airing. After a while, I started getting adverts, which brought in some money that helped me in production.

How were you able to produce your project since you had no money?

There was no money anywhere. All the actors— Koffi, Princess, Denrele and Chima— who were played lead roles on the show, acted for free. There was a theatre group called Theatre 15— which was where we evolved from. I was the director in the group, so I brought them to television, instead of restricting them to stage plays. In the group, we weren’t making money. Performing there was a way to establish ourselves. When I started the television show, they were eager to get on board because it was a way to push ourselves and bring more recognition. The camera I used belonged to my friend and I operated it myself. When we started getting adverts, I could afford to pay wages to my team and when we ran out of money, nobody complained.

Back then, you could produce shows for television without funds, whereas now, it seems impossible to make a move in the industry without money. What changed?

Things have evolved now. The production values and settings have evolved. There weren’t many options then and what they saw was what they got. There weren’t many television stations unlike now that there’s such a wide range. There’s also now a big competition with social media. Now, people can shoot with their phones and get awesome quality. Back then, the camera I used for the project wasn’t even topnotch, but it got the job done. Also, because it was a campus comedy series, most of the scenes were shot in the exterior of the campus. I hardly shot in the classrooms but when I did, I had to borrow lights from my friends. My production then was based on goodwill but that can’t happen anymore.

Growing up, what drama stirred your interest in the arts?

I watched Checkmate a lot as a kid. That was the turning point for me. There was a character there, Akpan, who was played by Tunde Yuba. He became my director in Theatre 15 and I learnt a lot from him. Also, Lola Fani-Kayode was doing some massive projects that were more educative than just drama. They were also very interesting. She did a programme called, Mindbending, which dealt on the issues of drug use and addiction. Growing up, we watched this and it scared us from using drugs. It was a good way to inspire the younger generation. Nowadays, producers are most concerned with comedy, drama and things that can make the viewers happy, and we aren’t doing much to educate the youths. The youths of today aren’t afraid of doing drugs and engaging in other social vices because there’s really not been anything to impart on them and frighten them from engaging in such.

Many Nigerian comedy movies are accused of being slapstick and the producers claim that they rake in huge sums from this. As a comedy movie producer, what’s your opinion on this?

Nigeria isn’t particularly a literate society. I started my professional career with Papa Ajasco and Company and on such a project, the comedy done is quite slapstick. That’s where I started my comedy from but that doesn’t mean that I have to stick to that type of comedy. If I continued with that type of comedy, we won’t be orientating them. I really don’t like slapstick comedy. It irks me. When you do something very intellectual that should excite people, you see someone else doing slapstick humour and getting well paid for it.

Can you say the television series, My Flatmates, which you are part of, isn’t actually slapstick comedy?

It’s not possible to say My Flatmates is slapstick. There is no character that is slapstick and everyone has to be real— portraying realistic situations and characters. If you try to be over the top as a character, you will get removed. The two actors who don’t act normal in their characters, Titus and Prosper, actually portray real-life characters who have disadvantages. People try to run away from facts because it’s classified as comedy when in fact, it is not believable. You don’t have to overdo something to make it real or termed as comedy. Derivation also matters a lot. You have to know your audience. Some people enjoy slapstick and they have a market. Some others don’t and they cater to their own target audience in like manner. You don’t have to produce a programme for the whole world. You should have your target. Mine is for the intellectuals and if they are enjoying it, then that works for me.

Virtually every script I’ve written has a moral message. It is of high importance to me.

It doesn’t seem like producers are taking advantage of satire, being a powerful tool to create awareness and proffer solutions, to address the many ills in the country. As a comedy movie maker, what do you think is the reason for this?

When you have a television programme and are signing your contract, one of the first and major terms is that you mustn’t be partisan, political or religious. They are clearly stated and if you can’t adhere to this, no one will take your project on, no matter how good it is. Even if the television stations want to, the National Broadcasting Commission will ban them. Going forward, the good part is that YouTube doesn’t restrict anyone and we can do satirical dramas for YouTube. We’re definitely thinking about making this move and it’s beneficial because since it’d be online, it can reach Nigerians in the Diaspora.

Being in the industry for as long as you have, what can you say your most memorable moment was?

It was the rebirth of My Flatmates. I did Flatmates for many years with my money. There were times I paid television stations to air my programme. Luckily, they liked the content, so I didn’t have to pay many TV stations. I had to source for adverts and split it with the stations as a barter and after some time, I rested it for a few years, because most of the actors had become very successful and getting them together for shoots proved difficult because they were all busy. One day, when I had moved my set from Lekki to Akoka, we were meant to shoot and Yaw (Steve Onu) was hurrying to set from his radio show. At that time, he rode a power bike and he had a crash on the expressway and this was because he was trying to arrive on time for the shoot. This was one of the reasons we had to rest the show and focus on other shows and movies. Then, Africa Magic commissioned us. That has to be the high point for me because I no longer have to look for money to shoot.

Why did you choose to do a remake of Flatmates?

People were requesting for it in high numbers and I needed to give them what they wanted. I put a clip of the old Flatmates on Instagram and people started begging for me to bring it back. The same thing happened when Basketmouth posted it on his handle. I thought it was a great idea to actually birth a remake.

Do you think you are instrumental in helping fresh talents get a break in the industry?

People can tell you how many talents I’ve discovered. This isn’t me trying to toot my horn. I’m like a talent factory and most of my producer-friends come to me when they want to shoot because they know that I have eyes for talents.

What are you planning for your future in the film industry?

Filmmaking is my ultimate goal. I want to collaborate with big film networks to do major film productions. I collaborated with a network and we shot a movie in New York City, last year. It’s called Excuse My African. This is just a tip of the iceberg and we need to move to the next level. The Nigerian film industry has come of age and we need to be almost at par with what’s been done outside the shores of Africa. Our music is already recognised worldwide and it’s time our movies got there, too.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]