Twitter rages as Charles Anazodo blasts Tiwa Savage for not saying ‘Hi’
On Air Personality and football commentator, Charles Anazodo; and superstar singer Tiwa Savage have engaged in tweet war, with each person’s supporters taking sides.

Trouble started when Anazodo called out Tiwa via a tweet:

@TiwaSavage was a guest on @THEBEAT999FM earlier today,arrived and walked past @kallyjoe and i, and didn’t have the courtesy to say hello. I guess being a superstar gives you the right to be discourteous. — CharlieLeaks (@chaplinez70) October 3, 2019

To which the video musician responded:

First of all I’m sure you saw me rushing to the studio because I was late for my interview plus I had a hat on, second I’m glad I didn’t say hi because who are you to think you can’t say hi first https://t.co/Ut1x1Xup6u — Tiwa Savage (@TiwaSavage) October 3, 2019

Various reactions have since greeted the tweetstorms, with #CharlesAnazodo already trending wildly with 5,644 tweets so far; and #Tiwa at 10,800.

See their followers’ reactions to the incident:

Well Charles Anazodo spoofed. If someone doesnt greet you, please greet. If you think it would take nothing from her, it should take nothing from you too. — ThoughtBasket (@thoughtbaskety) October 4, 2019

Anyways, while you all are getting riled up over Charles Anazodo, who thinks he is entitled to be greeted first by everyone, while his own mouth is tied to a tree & therefore can’t greet first, let’s look critically at health management in Nigeria & some of its challenges. — Ayò Bánkólé (@AyoBankole) October 4, 2019

How Tiwa Savage savaged Charles Anazodo. A whole Charles Anazodo…. Most of you were on diapers when he became prominent at NTA. Oh well… — the Morris Monye factor (@Morris_Monye) October 4, 2019

Charles Anazodo was wrong by bringing the issue to social media.

He should have let the matter die in silent. Who greetings help? pic.twitter.com/9VWXjlNJrn — Young Eagle (@iamjudin1911) October 4, 2019

Charles Anazodo has a point! Courtesy demands that you greet people you meet at a place you visit. Tiwa Savage has a point! Rushing to interview will make anyone not remember to put on the right clothing accessories talkless of seeing everyone to greet on the road. Let’s talk! pic.twitter.com/Fk4H31iwLj — B h a d o o s k y (@BhadmusAkeem) October 4, 2019

Tiwa savage : who are you to think you cant say hi first?! Charles Anazodo : pic.twitter.com/rI3KQQoXOO — OTUNBA_TBAM (@OtunbaTbam) October 4, 2019

Charles Anazodo has entered “you can’t even greet” generation. — Somi (@somiscellany) October 4, 2019

I preached a message yesterday on this street about having a SENSE OF ENTITLEMENT. If my brother Charles Anazodo has been an ardent follower of my power-packed TL 😎, he would’ve simply said “hi” to @TiwaSavage after the show without any wahala whatsoever. pic.twitter.com/YIW5RePnl8 — AJMorgan™ (@ajeromorgan) October 4, 2019

I think this Charles Anazodo feeling entitled to get a hi from Tiwa savage first shows how unnecessarily egocentric Nigerian men can get. Imagine calling out Tiwa of all people coz of ordinary greeting. Now imagine what people close to him must be getting from him on a reg. pic.twitter.com/GPenItJdik — Damian Amardi (@jaggsamardi) October 4, 2019

Meanwhile, Anazodo remains unfazed:

Backlash I’m getting was expected. Won’t stop me from saying my mind or what I believe. I was brought up to show respect and courtesy wherever I go or meet people. A culture I’m imbibing in my kids too https://t.co/N8dmuDZqij — CharlieLeaks (@chaplinez70) October 4, 2019