Omoni Oboli, Ayo Adesanya, other stars congratulate Nnadi on new baby
Mobola Sadiq & Toluwalope Kareem

Actress, Oma Nnadi, welcomed her second baby with her husband, Noni Enem, during the week.

Her obviously ecstatic husband, Enem, shared the news on his Instagram page where he wrote, “And our son arrives. Maximum joy. #happysoul. Thank you, God. Thank you, my wife @omannadi. Welcome to our world. Brian Buteaku Enem.”

The new mother also wrote on her page, “Thank you Lord for this huge gift– the fruit of the womb. Welcome to this world, our son, Brian Enem. KK Enem, you are now a big sister. How sweet.”

Shortly after, several messages from other celebrities and fans began to pour into Nnadi and her hubby’s page.

Actress and producer, Omoni Oboli wrote, “Congrats darling. God bless your son”. Ayo Adesanya also wrote, “Congratulations dear”. Faithia Williams (Balogun) added, “Congratulations sis”. Oge Okoye wrote, “Congratulations dear…no time”. “God’s blessings hun (honey). Congrats”, Halima Abubakar wrote. And Shirley Igwe wrote, “Big congratulations dearest oma”; as Angela Okorie wrote, “Congratulations dear”.

Filmmaker, Emem Isong, also felicitated Nnadi. She wrote on the latter’s Instagram page, “Congratulations my sister.” Belinda Effah added, “Congratulations dear”; as the sister of blogger, Linda Ikeji, Laura, wrote, “Congrats mama”.

Fans of the Being Annabel actress have continued to congratulate her on different social media platforms. Saturday beats feelers suggest that Nnadi is not in the country.

Nnadi, who once studied at the New York Film Academy, has acted in several movies including ‘Daughter of a Gambler’, ‘Honeymoon Hotel’, ‘Dance to my Beat’, ‘Not So Perfect’, ‘The Forgiven’, and ‘Fools’ Paradise’, among others. Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]