I risked my life to produce Milk Maid – Ovbiagele
Chux Ohai

Most fans of Nollywood film producer and director, Desmond Obviagele, probably knew next to nothing about his background until the filmmaker disclosed that he had to quit a lucrative job in investment banking to start a career in film making.

The film maker, in an interview with our correspondent, also revealed that the urge to make films had burned deep and red in his veins all the while.

“It was just a matter of time. In 2011, I decided to pursue my interest in filmmaking. Although I don’t come from a filmmaking background, I do have a bit of creativity in my genes. My mother used to write for Pacesetters and she was the Woman Editor of the Vanguard newspaper for some years.

“I started out by writing some scripts for film. I produced my first film in 2014. It was titled Render to Caesar. Some of the popular Nollywood actors and actresses were in the cast. They include people like Omoni Oboli, Wale Ojo and Bimbo Manuel, among others,” he said.

After Render to Caesar, Ovbiagele did not produce another film for some time. For him, film making is a very strenuous exercise, especially the way I like to do it. He needed to have a good story, which would move him sufficiently to want to spend about two years producing it.

Eventually he came up with an idea for his current film, a part documentary and part thriller titled, The Milk Maid, sometime around in 2017.

Set in the period when suicide bombing was rife in Nigeria and shot on location in Taraba State in 2018, the film tells the story of a Fulani milkmaid who confronts religious extremists in a quest to locate her missing sister, but efforts to recapture her disrupted past prove complicated.

Asked why he chose to tell such a sensitive and issue-driven tale, the film maker replied, “As a producer, I felt it was my responsibility to address such social issues in our environment. I delved into the story and immersed myself in research in order to understand the world in which these people were operating and the nuances of what they were going through.

“After I fished my research, I had to write the script. After writing the script, it was time to prepare for production. So I had to start attaching actors and actresses to the various roles in the script. After choosing the crew, I went out to raise funds for production.

“Shooting film in the Hausa Language was deliberate. This is because, apart from being a major language spoken in Nigeria, it is widely used across the sub-region, which is also affected by the insurgency. I thought it was an appropriate medium for communication, as well as being authentic to the characters in the story. That is the language they speak. It would be unrealistic to hear them speaking fluent English in the film. That would not make sense.”

Admitting that he risked his life and that of the cast and crew of the movie by going to shoot in Taraba State, which was under siege from the Boko Haram at the time, he added, “I felt quite moved by the story I wanted to tell and by what I considered to be the importance of telling the story. Yes, there were risks involved, but in life you have to take risks to achieve what you want to achieve.”

Also, the film maker said the title, Milk Maid, was inspired by the two lead characters in the film: the Fulani milk maids carrying calabashes on their heads. It was all about creating the imaginable, he explained, and asking questions, such as what would have happened if both girls were caught in an insurgency situation, how their lives would have turned out and what impact the situation would have on their families.

Ovbiagele also said that what informed the choice of Taraba as location for the film was its beautiful landscape. “To be honest, I was deeply attracted to the beauty of the area. I wanted to tell a story about a difficult situation in Africa. But also I wanted to show the beauty of the continent, particularly in Nigeria, which is not always shown in the media, whether local or international.

“We worked with a large number of collaborators on ground in Taraba State who facilitated the production of the film. Like I said, we had two auditions, which really attracted a lot of attention from the people. Thousands of people turned out for both auditions,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]