RCCG protest not meant to defame Pastor Adeboye – Eedris Abdulkareem
Olajide Samuel

Rapper, Eedris Abdulkareem, alongside other artistes including Baba Fryo and Felix Duke, led protesters in July to the Redeemed Christian Church of God’s Redemption Camp along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. They claimed that the protest was to mount pressure on the leader of the church, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, to speak up about the worsening state of insecurity in the country

The protest triggered diverse reactions on social media with many Nigerians questioning the veteran rapper’s decision to be part of such a demonstration.

Speaking on why he joined the protest, Eedris told Sunday Scoop, “Questioning my decision to be part of any positive and uplifting work that benefits mankind is tantamount to questioning my whole essence. I stand for the people because I am the people; you are the people, we are all the people. The fear of the Most High is the ultimate, not the fear of any human being.

“There was no acrimonious or defaming approach. We just went there to passionately plead with the venerable man of God to join his powerful and influential voice with other well-meaning Nigerians in calling on the government of the day to do the needful by sincerely fighting the worsening plague of heinous killings, kidnappings and destruction of properties and means of livelihood, attributed to herdsmen.

“We also wanted him to influence the Vice President, (Yemi Osibanjo), who is his spiritual son, to be up and doing, and either shape up or ship out. That was exactly what we did, and we left peacefully, just like we went there.”

READ ALSO: I’m ashamed to be ex-BBN housemate – Kemen

The Jaga Jaga crooner also added that the bail granted Sowore is worth applauding, stating that the freedom has to be true liberty.

“Most definitely, we are celebrating the fact that Sowore has been granted bail. Let the freedom be true freedom and he should be honourably discharged and acquitted of all the trumped up charges.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]