Ex-BBN housemate, Tacha, begs fans, gets N51m promise
Barely a day after Tacha was disqualified from the Big Brother Naija competition, she had received lip-smacking promises by her admirers.

Self-acclaimed sex therapist, Jaruma of Jaruma Empire, promised to give her N50m. in a video on her Instagram page, she said, “As you all know, I’ve been through so much hate, negativity and public humiliation. I can even say I’m the most hated person in Nigeria. I don’t support violence, rudeness and arrogance. But the fact is that Tacha’s mother is late and she basically has no one else but us, her father and other siblings. Please allow her to heal and lick her wounds. I’m going to give her N50m. Tacha, come home. Okay?”

Controversial cross dresser, Bobrisky, also offered Tacha N1m. He wrote on Instagram, “My love, I don’t have all the world to give you yet. But trust me, I will soon because I love you. For now, you will get (a bank) alert of N1m on Monday. Let me not promise to do more but in the nearest future, I promise to do more. Love you girl.”

This was even as Tacha released a statement on her Instagram page, thanking her fans and the organisers of BBN for their support. She wrote, “Words cannot readily express how much your love and acceptance means to me at this point. Even my imperfection could not sway your support. Thank you! Coming out of the Big Brother House disqualified was never my intention. Unfortunately, my weakness played against my strength and cut short what should have been a grand ending, with or without the prize. I sincerely apologise for every action on my part that led to this point and I take full responsibility for it all. I am an adult and ought to be in control of my emotions, but I’m human and I failed time and again. Please, forgive me. I sincerely wanted to make it, at least to the 99th day…I know I need to work on my emotional health. That’s a fact as I have become conscious of it now. Being on this show has shown me that I am not just a work in progress, but I have the chance to become a better me on all fronts if I give myself the chance to heal…I heard some of you even cried and held vigils for me. I cannot thank you enough. You all became my family and this means so much to me right now…I saved the best for last. Thank you to the organisers of Big Brother Nigeria for this platform. It may not have ended as I hoped and wanted, but it allowed me to rise. It was worth it and for this reason, I am grateful.”

Meanwhile, other celebrities also had different words of encouragement for Tacha. Toke Makinwa wrote, “My heart really goes out to Tacha. I hope she’s strong enough to weather the storm. No one is perfect. She was herself on this journey. (It) might not be your cup of tea but it’s way better than trying to be someone else.”

Tiwa Savage’s estranged huband, Teebillz, also offered to make Tacha the ‘biggest brand out of Africa’. He wrote on Instagram, “No be joke. I will make Tacha the biggest brand out of Africa. Bigger than Big brother itself! Tacha is the Kim K of Africa! Please connect me with her; I want to be her business manager.”

READ ALSO: I’m ashamed to be ex-BBN housemate – Kemen

Reacting via his Instagram live video, comedian AY, disagreed with her disqualification. He said, “I don’t support violence but I fault her disqualification. I do not support the fact that they threw her out. Mercy too attempted to hurt her.”

Outspoken media personality, Daddy Freeze, also added, “Dear Big Brother, just in case you missed the clip, here it is again, we could clearly see Mercy assaulting Tacha twice. Firstly, she flung her hair in Tacha’s face, and secondly, she grabbed the iron in a threatening manner. What is Mercy still doing in the Big Brother House?”

Instagram comedian, Real Warri Pikin, was of the opinion that Mercy ought to have been disqualified alongside Tacha. “Think about it, Big Brother. You know Mercy was also supposed to go home with Tacha.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]