Contemporary artistes didn’t boycott my concert – Ruggedman
Olajide Samuel

Rapper and social activist, Micheal Stephens, aka Ruggedman, recently staged a show tagged, ‘The Foundation Concert’, where he honoured veterans who have contributed to not just the entertainment industry, but other sectors.

On the flipside, many of his fans questioned why contemporary artistes shunned the show.

In an encounter with Sunday Scoop, Ruggedman said, “Obviously, not everybody can be in one show and we couldn’t have brought all the contemporary artistes on one stage. Doing that would take us three days. So, we just resorted to bringing a few of them. It will happen again in 2020 and there will be more artistes coming on board. I am one person who believes in giving back and giving honour to whom it is due. I hope that by organising the concert, the younger ones can learn that there are people who paved the way in the industry and they deserve to be celebrated. For this edition, Mr Real was there. Seyi Shay and Ice Prince were also supposed to be there but they had other engagements outside the country, and I cannot stop anybody from going for a paid show. Also, I wanted to fly in 2shotz, Freestyle and Eldee, but because there was no corporate sponsor, we couldn’t do that. Everything I did was on me; thanks to God and a few friends.”

Ruggedman also added that Nigerians needed to start confronting individuals who didn’t do their jobs well. He said, “We need to start facing people who don’t do their jobs well– be it in healthcare, government, education or defence. We need to start facing them and asking for accountability. We need to stop complaining and leaving it at that. We need to face these people and demand accountability.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]