Music industry neglected Mad Melon before death –Mountain Black (Danfo Drivers)
Tofarati Ige

One-half of the music group, Danfo Drivers, Mountain Black, has said that the music industry neglected his recently deceased colleague, Mad Melon, before his death.

Hours after news of the artiste’s demise surfaced on the Internet, many artistes had posted his picture on social media, mourning his death. However, some of his colleagues were of the view that it was just a show of ‘fake love’. A particular artiste, Kelly Hansome, described the Nigerian music industry as disrespectful and ungrateful, stating that those mourning his colleague did not support him before his death.

In a chat with SATURDAY BEATS, Mountain Black seemed to agree with Hansome. He said, “Yes, he was neglected (by the music industry). We became popular in 2003, and we had been managing ourselves since then. I believe that with God, all things are possible. We believed in ourselves, and that is why we were still relevant in the industry till now. The industry is very wide; you can fix yourself anywhere and make your money. We were, also, both involved in transportation business.”

On the nature of Mad Melon’s illness, Black said, “I am not a doctor. I was actually not around. It was when I got back, I was told that he was not feeling well. One of his relatives called me and said I should come immediately because my brother was acting strangely. By the time I got there, he was gone. I was just told he was not feeling fine.”

Revealing the plans for Melon’s funeral rites, Black said, “The wake will take place on October 11, while the burial will hold the next day. We stay in Satellite Town now but we have to go back to Ajegunle where we were brought up. He is going to be buried in Atan Cemetery, Yaba. The people of Ajegunle have been very supportive.”

On what he would miss most about his former partner, Mountain Black said, “I will miss a lot about him. We went to places and worked together. He will always be in my heart. I can neither forget nor deny him– he was my brother.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]