Why I called out producer who demanded sex for roles –Chesan Nze
Olajide Samuel

Budding actress, Chesan Nze, recently took to her Instagram page to call out movie producers who demand for sex before starring her in a movie.

She wrote, “I am done keeping mute over the movie producers who demand for sex. I do this business for the love of entertaining my people. But, these producers want me to sacrifice my dignity for my passion, after sacrificing my time for my dream. How long will this continue in Nollywood? You want to have sex as a condition before featuring an actor whom you contacted and auditioned for a role? It is alarming. Actors no longer attract respect because of these producers. Everyone sees actors as prostitutes.”

In a chat with SATURDAY BEATS, the light-skinned actress revealed that a movie producer demanded sex from her after sending her three movie scripts. She said, “The experience that actually led to my post was the call I got that morning from a producer who sent me about three scripts to go through and said I should spend seven days in his hotel room to give him hot sex styles, before he pays me to shoot (movies) with him. I asked him if that was the condition attached, and he said if I wasn’t ready to do as he wanted, there were over 50 girls willing to take my role and give him hot styles for two weeks nonstop. Tears rolled down my eyes, and I had no option than to post the experience on social media. I didn’t want to cry alone, or lead myself into depression. I had to let it out because nothing irritates me than work-related abuse.”

Nze also said that since sharing her experience on social media, she had been threatened. She added,“I was threatened to talk less about my experience because my career would be at stake. On the other hand, some producers contacted me and encouraged me. I look forward to producing my own movies soon.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]