Veteran Nollywood actor, Baba Wande, to shoot ‘Ti Oluwa Nile’ as series
Veteran Nollywood actor, Kareem Adepoju, popularly known as Baba Wande, has signed a multi-million Naira deal with housing firm, Adron Homes and Properties to commence the shoot of his indigenous blockbuster movie ‘Ti Oluwa Nile’ into a television series

Baba Wande signed the deal at the Lagos office of the firm.

The series will be shot in about 52 episodes that will be aired on select TV stations nationwide soon, the firm said.

Speaking on the importance of the project, CEO Adron Homes & Properties, Aare Akintola Emmanuel King, said the movie stands out as one of the unforgettable oldies in the history of indigenous movies.

Akintola added that going by the storyline, the firm adopted the movie to enlighten Nigerians on the need to get the right landed properties with a proper document to back it up. “We also want to use this series to enlighten people of the importance of the land use act amongst others,” he said.

He said, “We at Adron home are happy to be working and as well learning from the wealth of knowledge of Baba Wande as we all know him and we looking forward to a long-lasting relationship that this partnership and investment will yield in the future.”

In his reaction, Baba Wande noted that the upcoming series will have a bit of a modern touch but retaining its major central idea of the popular movie.

He said: “As a thespian in the creative industry, we are saddled with the responsibility of passing the right message across via comic relief method and other devices.

“Ti Oluwa Nile as you all know is a movie I worked hard to conceive and with Adron Homes&Properties proposing we make a series out of it; is a laudable project that I am glad to do. We would be hitting location pretty soon and hope you all will accept the series just the way you did with movie back then.”

Popular actor and Media Head/Consultant of Adron Homes & Property Group, Saidi Balogun also disclosed that the leading property firm is not just limited to just housing alone as through its Corporate social responsibilities (CSR) equally give laudable support to the creative industry at large.