I stay away from negativity — Emmanuel Ikubese
Actor , director and a one-time Mr Nigeria, Emmanuel Ikubese, speaks about his career and other issues with TOFARATI IGE

What have you been up to lately?

I’ve been around. I have found myself moving into the creative space, and this started with the television series, My Flatmates. I joined the programme and we got the opportunity to tell our own stories. I wrote a couple of episodes for the show, and that gave me the confidence to create more content and do some of the things I had always wanted to do. I have always had the passion to tell stories that affect everyday people and make impact.

This period has also been a sort of incubation time for me, so I’ve been inside a lot. When one is trying to create something, it is better to lock oneself up, so that one wouldn’t get distracted by other things that are happening. That way, one would be able to really focus and write the things that one wants to write. Last year, I shot my TV series titled, Kydallah. Produced by my company, Emmanuel Ikubese Films, I had been on the project for the past two years. It was shot in Uganda, and we are ready to showcase what we have to the world. The programme is tailored towards a pan-African audience. It would be premiered in Uganda, because that is where we have partners. But I am also talking to some people, to see how we can do the same thing in Nigeria.

What inspired this new project?

I like to start conversations that will resonate with people, and that they can relate to. I like telling stories that are real, and that the audience can learn from; a story that will enlighten people and create awareness about certain important issues. However, I didn’t know how to go about it, but Kydallah is my first personal project that incorporates all the things I’m passionate about.

The first role I played in a film was a character who spread awareness about HIV/AIDS. Seeing the kind of impact that the movie had motivated me to do my own thing. By God’s grace, this series would be the first of many like it.

Why did you choose to premiere it in Uganda?

That’s majorly because I shot it in Uganda. I have always wanted a pan-African appeal to my storytelling and the shows I create. I partnered with a very good friend, Humphrey Nabimanya, who is also the founder of a youth-centred organisation called, Reach a Hand, in Uganda. Kydallah is actually an Ugandan word which means, ‘It is real’. We have a big vision, and we intend to take it across Africa.

Why did you decide to focus on rape, and HIV/AIDS?

These are issues that concern a lot of young people. I want to use my platform to tell the story, change people’s mindset about the disease and get people to make better decisions that would positively impact on their lives.

What are the challenges you faced in making the series?

It was a major one for me, as it was the first project I produced under my own imprint. This is the first time I’m directing, producing and creating a show at the same time. Being on set as a director and actor at the same time was really challenging but I thank God I was able to pull through.

It seems you don’t appear in a lot of movies. Is that deliberate?

I was on Flatmates for about two years and it took a lot of my time. Prior to that, I was on another series, Shuga. I have also been part of other movies; some have been released while some are not out yet. However, I am not fixated on the quantity but the quality of works that I do. And now that I’m in a space where I’m also creating content, I like to retreat sometimes to come out with quality products.

You were involved in some controversies with broadcaster, Daddy Freeze, over the issue of tithing some time ago. What effect did the episode have on your career?

It had no effect whatsoever. He has his own perception and ideology about certain things. I actually just shared mine, and it was different from his. I don’t know him and we’ve never met. My career is not in anybody’s hands, but in God’s care.

Are we going to hear wedding bells from you soon?

By the grace of God, you will hear it at the right time.

Do you still model?

No; I’m more of a brand ambassador now. I can offer a lot more than just being a model so I don’t model anymore.

What has been the lowest point of your career so far?

I wouldn’t call it ‘lowest point’ per say. There have been instances when I had to take some time to reevaluate my actions and plans, and come up with more innovative ways to take my career to the next level. Every point in my career has been a lesson– a driving point for the next level. I appreciate every step of the process

How do you handle criticisms?

I take criticism calmly. I know when criticism is right and I know when it doesn’t make sense. I stay away from negativity. Also, I stay around people who always tell me the truth. However, I don’t just take criticism from anybody, because people can just say whatever they want. Sometimes, people could just say things to make you feel bad and down, but I shut all that out.

What are your hobbies?

I like playing basketball, soccer and cooking too.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]