17 years in comedy industry taught me patience – Lafup
Tofarati Ige

[email protected]

08068792241 (SMS only)

Comedian, Segun Ogundipe, aka Lafup, who is celebrating his 17-year anniversary in the comedy industry, has said that it feels good building his career to this level from humble beginnings in Ibadan, Oyo State. He told Sunday Scoop, “It’s a good feeling having started my career in Ibadan, a place where there was no history of such, and lots of people now tapping into the opportunities created. I am really grateful to God for all I have been able to achieve and I regard every day as a blessing. 17 years in the industry have taught me patience and I firmly believe that what belongs to one will never pass one by.”

Speaking on some of the highlights of his career, Lafup said, “I won an award as the best comedian of the night at an event while I was in school, and that was the first time I performed with big stars such as Styl Plus, African China, DJ Jimmy Jatt, I Go Dye, among others. Hosting Star Music Trek alongside 2baba, P-Square, Timaya, MI, Olamide, Burna Boy, among others, is also another highlight of my career. Over the years, I have worked with several brands and toured all the geopolitical zones of the country. It was also wonderful opening and hosting Ali Baba’s show at the Indigo02 in London.”

On his plans to celebrate his 17th anniversary in the industry, Lafup said, “I am celebrating my 17 years anniversary by telling the whole world my story of ‘Ibadan to the world’. I will host shows in Lagos (October 1), Dubai, UK and US before wrapping everything up in Ibadan. Though I started local but I want to be global.”

Lending some words of advice to up and coming ones in the industry, the comedian said, “I have learnt that it is very important to take every opportunity as your last one, so you wouldn’t have any regrets. It may be bad to fail but it is even worse not to ever try. Consciously seek out people who support you and want the best for you. Don’t deceive yourself even when people are deceiving you. Always tell yourself the truth and understand that nobody can love you more than they love themselves.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]