I do music for passion, not fame — Dre-sticks, producer
Singer and producer, Oluwadamilare Odunlami, aka Dre-sticks, speaks with KORE OGIDAN about life in the music industry

Tell us about your background.

I was born and raised in Ibadan, Oyo State, where my parents hail from. I am the last child from a very large family. I’m now based in Lagos State, where I’m pursuing my music career. For my elementary education, I attended Bodija International School, Ibadan. And I went to Loyola College, Ibadan, for my secondary education. I studied Urban and Regional Planning at the Federal University of Technology, Akure, Ondo State, and moved to Lagos for my NYSC. I cared more about my musical career from the beginning but I got a university degree to satisfy my parents. I have no regrets, though.

How did you get into the industry?

I started as a drummer in church. When my church got a drum set, I had the opportunity to play it because I was the youngest in the English choir. I realised I could also sing when I started rehearsing with other choristers. I’m a product of process. I started music production fully when I got into the university. I just had to familiarise myself with production software. I also did back-up for other singers, made jingles for politicians, and did adverts. I thank God for how far I’ve come. I’ve worked with Mavin Records, Yemi Alade, Skales, K1 de Ultimate, Mike Abdul, and many others. I’m also working on my album which is long overdue, and my fans from all around have been requesting that from me. Hide original message

I love what I do and I don’t do anything to compromise it. I didn’t start doing music for money or fame; I do it because I love it.

What were the challenges you faced when you started your career?

It’s not easy for a child to choose to go into the creative arts, especially with parents from a different generation. They (parents) believe you must follow the academic path and get a job in certain professions, but not in the arts. It wasn’t easy for me but I was able to convince them. They knew I’d always been the most musically inclined in the family, but when I started pursuing my career, they had questions. But, when they started hearing me on radio, it made it easier for them to accept. I, however, promised not to tarnish the image of the family, especially being from a Christian home. They also realised that my music wasn’t derogatory but clean, so they eventually gave me their blessings.

If you weren’t a musician, what other career path would you have chosen?

If you had asked me this many years ago, I may not have been able to give an answer. I had always known I’m not a white collar person, but I could have been an investor or business mogul if I wasn’t doing music. I still have plans to invest in other things.

Where do you draw inspiration from when making new music?

All inspiration comes from God because He created everything. If you get your inspiration from nature or the things you see, they still come from God. I get inspired by life, emotions, nature, experiences and music itself. Sometimes, I even inspire myself. I don’t box myself when it comes to creativity. I try to open my mind as much as I can, and I let God help me.

Why haven’t enrolled in music contests that can help push your brand higher?

I’ve never liked competitions and I still don’t. I like being known for what I do. I don’t want to be compared with anyone and I don’t want anyone to be compared to me.

What are your hobbies?

I love hanging out with my friends. I also like chatting, swimming, travelling to places I’ve never been to, as well as playing basketball. Music completely takes my time, so I try to have fun while on the job because there’s really no other time to do so.

How do you like to dress?

I am very ‘serious’ when it comes to fashion. I love to always look good, different and unique. I like jewellery, and nice perfumes. Dressing nice makes me feel good. I don’t like dressing to fit a certain image.

Who are your role models?

I’m not rigid when it comes to choosing role models. If you are doing well in your field and I can learn from you, I will get drawn to you. The person doesn’t even have to be in the music industry.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]