Entertainment should be part of extracurricular activities – Kenny Saint Best
Dayo Adeola

Singer, Kenny Saint Best, believes that entertainment should be part of extracurricular activities in school.

Speaking about what she had been up to recently, she told Sunday Scoop, “I dedicated a whole year to the last general elections. I worked with the Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s campaign organisation as the assistant media and publicity director, so that was what kept me away from the entertainment scene. After Sanwo-Olu emerged as governor, I started my own project with Lagos State public secondary schools. I am doing a talent discovery and development programme with students in Lagos State. I work directly with the local government chairmen, making them see why entertainment should be part of the extracurricular activities in schools.

“I consult for government on entertainment issues, and I have found that one needs to bridge the gap between our leaders and entertainment. For any economy to have a boost, it needs government’s involvement. So, creating a boost for the creative industry is the main reason I am in politics. Politicians often think that paying entertainers to sing for them during their campaigns is enough but they need to see us in another light as technocrats.”

Despite her involvement and commitment to politics, KSB said she had no plans to quit music. “Music is my life and I cannot leave it for anything. The industry is really big now. I remember back in the days when we started, it was more like a family business with Kenny Ogungbe, Dayo Adeneye and I,” she said.

The Turn Me Around singer also maintained that people who still thought a woman’s place was in the kitchen had some kind of disease, and that relationships between entertainers could very well work. She added, “It is a disease for anybody to still think that the place of a woman is in the kitchen, and not to have a career. This is not peculiar to the entertainment industry, as it also obtains in other sectors. However, people like Olu Jacobs and Joke Silva, and Tope Alabi and her husband, Soji, have proven that people in the entertainment industry can keep a home. Any relationship can break down irrespective of the profession of the people involved.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]