Celeb mums: Enjoying the beauty of motherhood
The Nigerian entertainment industry has, in recent times, witnessed a harvest of babies. KORE OGIDAN takes a look at some female celebs who recently became mothers

Funke Akindele

2017 ended on a sad note for actress Funke Akindele. The Jenifa star had a miscarriage three months before her delivery date. It was a sad period for the lady whose acting style is a source of joy to many. However, the actress and producer didn’t give up hope, and fortune soon smiled on her when in December, 2018, she and her husband, Abdulrasheed Bello, aka JJC Skillz, welcomed a set of twin boys. The actress and her husband, who actively took part in the 2017 social media-based ‘Halleluyah challenge’ led by gospel singer, Nathaniel Bassey. Around that time, the couple had got a prophecy that they would soon become parents. This was even as the founder of the Mountain of Blessing and Miracle Church of Christ, Olagorioye Faleyimu, also gave a prophecy that she won’t have children except she got married to someone of a much lower class and status to her. But Faleyimu became the butt of jokes and criticisms when Funke eventually welcomed her twin boy. He, however, insisted that he had no regret sharing the prophecy, as it was “instruction from God.”

The actress, who was 41 at the time she gave birth, was showered with love from fans and colleagues.

Meanwhile, the couple has continued to keep the faces of their babies away from both the traditional and new media.

Toyin Abraham

Screen diva, Toyin Abraham, also recently joined the new mothers’ club. She welcomed her first child, a boy, on August 14, 2019, with her husband and fellow Yoruba movie actor, Kolawole Ajeyemi. The newly married couple had shared pictures of their traditional wedding just a few hours before the birth of their son, who has since been named Ire. This got the Internet agog as congratulatory messages poured in for the couple from all over the world. It should be recalled that Toyin was formerly married to another actor, Adeniyi Johnson, before their messy split a few years ago. The union did not produce any fruit. However, Toyin seems to have found happiness again when she married her new husband and gave birth to a son. Several celebrities including Ufuoma Mcdermott, Omoni Oboli, Chioma Akpotha, Bolanle Ninalowo, and Ayo Makun, among others, have visited the actress’ home to felicitate her.

Toyin is famous for producing the Alakada movie series, and has starred in several films such as The Ghost and the Tout, Nimbe: the movie, Okafor’s Law, Hakkunde, Tatu, and many others.

T-Boss

Former Big Brother Naija star and actress, Tokunbo Idowu, aka T-Boss, also had her first baby in July 2019. Although the father of the baby is still unknown to the public, T-boss is apparently unbothered by the several speculations on the Internet about his identity. At different times, Made Men Music Group boss, Ubi Franklin, and Senator Dino Melaye, have been alleged to be the mystery dad, but they had both publicly denied the rumours that the baby belonged to them.

She recently shared a picture of the baby girl on her Instagram page and captioned the post, ‘Flesh of my flesh, blood of my blood, I will forever hold your heart even more tenderly than I would hold mine. I Love you —always and forever and a day more’.

Many of her colleagues, including Tope Oshin and Sambasa Nzeribe, had posted congratulatory messages on her social media pages.

T-boss came into the limelight when she participated in the popular reality television show, Big Brother Naija, season two, in 2017, alongside Bisola Aiyeola, Debbie Rise, and Efe, among others. She is known for her controversial outbursts and ‘no-nonsense’ attitude.

Ronke Odusanya

Actress, Ronke Odusanya, was expectedly elated when she welcomed her bundle of joy recently. Shortly after her colleague, Toyin Abraham, welcomed her son, Ronke also put to bed.

She shared the news of her baby’s arrival on Instagram with the words, “My joy knows no limit. It’s boundless. Appreciation to God for the process and seeing me through it all…birthing a new being is a whole new level and experience for me. My love. We welcome our child”.

She has revealed the identity of the baby’s father as Olanrewaju Saheed.

Odusanya is popular for movies such as Twisted, Ailatunse, Jenifa, and many more.

READ ALSO: It’s unfortunate I allowed Halima Abubakar into my life – Cossy Ojiakor

Korra Obidi

Dancer, Korra Obidi, welcomed her baby girl, June, with her Caucasian husband, Justin Dean, on July 10, 2019, in the United States of America. The 25-year-old Delta State native wowed many when she appeared on the reality game show, So You Think You Can Dance, and danced as a heavily pregnant woman. Though she was criticised by some for dancing in her pregnant state, Obidi insisted that she wanted people to know they could pursue their dreams regardless of being pregnant. She got a standing ovation from the audience and judges on the show.

Obidi was not shy to flaunt her baby bump and share the pregnancy process with her fans and followers on social media, so it didn’t come as a surprise when she was delivered of her daughter. She has continued to share her postpartum experience and how she lost her baby weight on Instagram.

D’banj/Lineo Kilgrow

One year after tragedy struck the home of popular singer, Dapo Oyebanjo, popularly known as D’banj, he and his wife, Lineo, have welcomed another baby to their family.

The couple lost their son in June 2018 when he drown in a swimming pool. As many celebrities and fans mourned the loss, some members of the public blamed his mother for carelessness as the child drowned in the swimming pool at their Lagos residence. Shortly after this happened, D’banj flew his wife outside the country for a vacation and was in company with his friend, Innocent Idibia, aka 2baba, and his wife.

However, good news broke on Friday morning that the couple had been blessed with another baby boy. This was a few days after D’banj had announced that he and his wife, Lineo, were expecting another baby.

The songs of sorrow have definitely been replaced with sweet melodies, and D’banj, who has been away from the top of the music charts for a while, is set to release a song very soon-to introduce the birth of his new child.

Oyebanjo and Don Jazzy had co-founded the defunct Mo’Hits Records. They produced numerous hits and have won many awards worldwide. Best known for songs such as Oliver Twist, Mr Endowed, Fall in Love, Igwe, among others, D’banj has also been described as one of the most charismatic performers of his generation.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]