Nigerian passport restricts me whenever I travel –– Mercy Macjoe
Actress, Mercy Macjoe, speaks with TOFARATI IGE about her trips to the UK and US

How often do you travel?

I travel about three times every year. I have been to London twice this year already and I am currently in New York, USA.

What are some of the things you like to do whenever you travel?

I like to try the food, and train system wherever I go to.

Did you enjoy their food?

I love to try new food. However, whenever I travel, I still look for Nigerian food. You cannot throw our unique dishes away.

Did you visit any interesting place while on your trip?

Wherever I go, I always make sure I visit the tourist attractions and other nice places there for sightseeing and to take pictures.

Did you experience any cultural shock while there?

I have only been to English-speaking counties, so I have not really had any cultural shock.

What are the downsides of travelling as a Nigerian?

The downside I have anytime I travel is the fact that I am a Nigerian and I carry a Nigerian passport. Whenever I travel, the immigration officials usually give me second look simply because I am a Nigerian and I am carrying a Nigerian passport. That makes me feel uncomfortable because the passport has somehow restricted me.

What other countries would you like to visit?

I plan to visit Turkey before the end of the year. I will also like to go to Hong Kong sometime soon.

What are the greatest benefits you have derived from travelling?

I have been able to expose myself because going on trips open one up to new experiences and gives one a different knowledge and perspective of how other people see life. Through travelling, one gets to meet new people and experience diverse cultures. As far as I’m concerned, travelling is another form of education as it teaches one more about the world and manifests the beauty in the diversity of different people’s ways of life. If one travels often, one would be better placed to appreciate one’s own heritage and culture more. When one sees how other people cherish and project their culture, one would also be motivated to showcase one’s way of life.

What are those things you see in more developed climes and would like to be replicated in Nigeria?

I would like so many things to be done in Nigeria. Whenever I travel, I usually get the feeling that our leaders don’t travel to these places and see how everything is organised in some other countries. When I see how cities are well built and properly structured in other countries, I always feel a tinge of regret and wish my country is that beautiful and coordinated. Some of the basic things that make life easy and comfortable for people in advanced climes are steady electricity and robust transportation system. There is virtually no developed country in the world that does not have a wide network of trains to ease the movement of people. I often wonder, how can one live an average life without even having a car? Also, security in Nigeria is nothing to write home about and that is very bad. I have been robbed twice at gunpoint in two years in Nigeria.

Meanwhile, travelling around the world has made me understand that providing these amenities is not such a big deal only if our leaders are committed. Yet, it’s not as if our leaders don’t travel to these places. I just think they don’t want the best for us because they are greedy, selfish and wicked.

Where do you stay anytime you travel?

I usually stay in hotels whenever I travel, and sometimes, I put up with friends or family members around. However, I prefer to stay in hotels because I hate to inconvenience people and be a burden.

What can some of the countries you have been to learn from Nigeria?

As it is, all the countries I have been to are better than Nigeria. I am sorry if that sounds harsh, but that’s just the truth. We really have a long way to go and I can only hope that things begin to get better soon.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]