Teenager dazzles at maiden photo exhibition
Mudiaga Affe

Teenage photographer, Ikemsinachukwu James, is currently the talk of the visual arts community in Lagos, following his maiden photo exhibition held at Crimma Library in the Idimu area.

For young James, who is 14 years-old and a secondary school pupil, the event presented an opportunity to show case no less than 100 photographs, out of a total of 5,000 shots taken within a period of seven years.

The photographer in an inteview with our correspondent, said he got interested in photography at the age of seven after his father, Dr Raphael James, encouraged him to make use of a rarely used camera in their home.

The teenager claimed that his camera had captured important personalities, such as the former governor of Oyo State, Rashidi Ladoja, the Alafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III, a former Chief Staff to President Goodluck Jonathan, Gen. Jones Arogbofa (retd.), former Minister of Information, Chief Sir Alex Akinyele, Nollywood actress, Lilian Bola Bach, and the Chancellor of the International Bible Academy in the United States, Dr Murphy Akrasi, among others.

Speaking during the exhibition, which was organised as part of the activities marking the World Photography Day, he said, “I showed interest in photography at age of four, when l cry and struggle my father’s camera with him.

“My father encouraged me to make use of the camera and seven I could take photos from all angles. During my summer holiday in 2016, my father enrolled me for a three-month programme in photography.”

Apart from photography, he added, he has featured in some Nollywood movies. He played the le

ad role in ‘Nine days to Christmas’ and also appeared in another movie, ‘One last time.’

The young photographer’s biggest ambition is to become President of Nigeria someday.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]