On Tiwa Savage’s molue ride to Obalende
Olajide Samuel

Music is a major attraction in Lagos. From street corners to bus stops to markets, music accentuates the hustle and bustle in the ever-busy city.

So, it came as no surprise when fans of Tiwa Savage gathered under the Obalende bridge on Lagos Island to witness the official unveiling of the singer’s new single ’49-99’ during the week.

The sultry singer had earlier announced on her Instagram page that she would be performing the Fela-inspired song for her teeming fans under the popular Obalende bridge, but many thought it was a publicity stunt.

However, on a wet Tuesday morning, residents of Obalende were astonished to see banners engraved with Tiwa Savage’s picture springing up everywhere in the vicinity. Artisans and traders could be seen peeping from their shops, wondering what was about to happen.

Though the event was slated for 11 am, it didn’t kick off until 1 pm with popular media personality, Jimmie, engaging the crowd who had already gathered under the bridge, awaiting the arrival of Tiwa Savage.

When Tiwa Savage finally arrived at about 2.30 pm, the whole area practically stood still as the enthusiasm went into overdrive. She was almost mobbed by fans of all genders even as security operatives guided her as she made her way into the venue.

Speaking with journalists before her performance, the sexy songstress said, “’49 sitting, 99 standing’ is a line from Fela’s song, ‘Suffering and smiling’. As an artiste getting global recognition, I have a responsibility to speak on things that are affecting a lot of Nigerians.

“I wanted my introduction to the rest of the world to have substance. ’49 sitting, 99 standing’ is a reflection of the poverty and the things that Nigerians are fighting. I am not attacking anyone with the song, but this is the reality that millions of Nigerians face.”

[READ ALSO] Toyin/Liz war: Antar Laniyan, Iya Rainbow, Mr Latin, others intervene

The ‘Kele Kele’ love singer mounted the stage at about 3.30 pm performing songs such as ‘Lova Lova,’ ‘All Over,’ ‘Mafimi Sere’ and the song of the moment, ’49-99.’

The sensational artiste was evidently excited to perform for her Obalende fans who might otherwise not be able to afford the ticket to her premium shows.

Despite the hustle and flurry of Obalende, the residents left the show with a renewed vigour needed to fight their daily battles.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]