It’s wrong to put fame, fortune over God’s calling –Rachael Owojori
Dayo Adeola

Canada-based singer and humanitarian, Rachael Owojori, has said that the major purpose of a gospel singer is to evangelise to people and not chase after fame and fortune.

In a chat with SATURDAY BEATS, she said, “I won’t say most singers have commercialised gospel music because I believe there are still true gospel ministers out there.

“However, some gospel artistes prioritise money over the message of Christ. It is not right to favour money or fame over God’s calling. It is important for everyone that is truly called by God to follow God’s direction and pass the message of God to the people without looking back.”

Owojori said although she faces challenges, she doesn’t let them get to her.

“God has been faithful. In this kind of ministry, you need resources such as money. According to the popular saying, ‘Money is the vehicle of evangelism.’ To produce an album and promote it costs a lot of money.

“We are praying for a financial breakthrough to propagate the gospel. We are also trusting God for volunteers to help spread the gospel. Another challenge we are facing is getting gospel songs to the public in Canada. Thanks to God for open doors in this area,” she said.

Speaking about her other interests, the registered nurse said, “I volunteer for humanitarian services in Nigeria and Canada. And I am a member of the choir and drama teams in the church.”

READ ALSO: How Nigeria police dismissed, jailed mopol officer for complaining about pay – PIDI Executive Director

Recalling how she started her career, the singer said, “I released my first single titled, ‘Odun tuntun (New year)’ in December 2016 and my first album titled, ‘Let’s praise Him,’ was released in August 2017. I am currently working on three singles and I hope to release a new album in 2020.”

On where she sees her music ministry in five years, Owojori said, “By God’s grace, I hope to spread the gospel to different parts of the world at every opportunity I get. I just concluded a Nigeria tour last April; but there are still more grounds to cover.

“I also plan to work more on helping orphans and the needy in Africa. It is part of our expectations to tour other African countries, Europe, and the United States next year.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]