Kanye West in spiritual rebirth, organises weekly ‘Sunday Service’
Jesusegun Alagbe

Kanye West is one of the multitalented people around. He’s a rapper, singer, songwriter, record producer, film director, entrepreneur and fashion designer.

The 42-year-old American and husband of popular television personality, Kim Kardashian West, is one of the few blacks who is pro-United States President Donald Trump, often seen on social media wearing the red ‘Make America Great Again’ cap.

West was born in Atlanta, Georgia, to Ray and Donda West, who divorced when Kanye was three years old. West’s father was one of the first black photojournalists in Atlanta before later becoming a Christian counsellor, while his mother was a professor of English at the Clark Atlanta University.

West began his musical career in the mid-1990s, creating beats primarily for burgeoning local artistes and eventually developing a style that involved speeding up vocal samples from classic soul records.

He got his big break in 2000 when he began to produce for artistes on Roc-A-Fella Records. He is often credited with enlivening Jay-Z’s career, with his contributions to the rap mogul’s influential 2001 album, “The Blueprint,” which has consistently been ranked among the greatest hip-hop albums.

Serving as an in-house producer for Roc-A-Fella Records, West produced records for other artistes from the label, including Beanie Sigel, Freeway, and Cam’ron. He also crafted hit songs for Ludacris, Alicia Keys and Janet Jackson.

West’s musical career has been marked by dramatic changes in style, incorporating an eclectic range of influences, including soul, baroque pop, electro, indie rock, synth-pop, industrial and gospel.

Over the course of his career, he has been responsible for cultural movements and progressions within mainstream hip hop and popular music at large.

West is one of the outspoken artistes in the US, speaking on topics ranging from music, politics, race and fashion. As a fashion designer, he has collaborated with Nike, Louis Vuitton and Adidas.

West is among the most critically acclaimed musicians of the 21st century and one of the best-selling music artistes of all time – with over 140 million records sold worldwide.

He has won a total of 21 Grammy Awards, making him one of the most awarded artistes of all time and the most Grammy-awarded artiste of his generation.

Three of his albums have been included and ranked on Rolling Stone’s list of “500 Greatest Albums of All Time.” West ties with Bob Dylan for having topped the annual Pazz & Jop critic poll the most number of times ever, with four number-one albums each. In 2005 and 2015, the TIME magazine named him one of the 100 most influential people in the world.

West’s spiritual rebirth

Of recent, West has been undergoing what could be described as spiritual rebirth as the rapper holds a weekly concert called “Sunday Service.”

The rapper’s wife, Kardashian, recently confirmed on the ABC daytime show, “The View,” saying her husband’s “Sunday Service” was a musical ministry and Christian service that discussed Jesus and God.

The weekly concert is also to heal him, as the rapper has on some occasions confessed suffering from mental illness.

“Kanye started this (Sunday Service), I think, just to heal himself. It was a really personal thing and it was just friends and family and he has had an amazing evolution of being born-again and being saved by Christ,” Kardashian said.

She continued, “People are always asking, ‘Well, what are you worshipping?’ and ‘What is this?’ It is a Christian service, like a musical ministry, they talk about Jesus and God.”

At each performance held every Sunday since January 2019, the rapper performs mainly gospel songs alongside a collection of church choristers and fellow artistes.

Last Sunday, West was at the New Birth Missionary Baptist Church, Atlanta, drawing hundreds of parishioners and celebrities, including rappers TI, Chris Tucker and 2 Chainz.

The church’s Instagram stories showed West performing “Father Stretch my Hands” and other songs with a 600-person choir.

Not stopping at that, West mounted the pulpit preaching for about 10 minutes. During the sermon, he testified about Jesus, saying, “I’ve seen him work miracles in my life. You know the devil presents so many flashy, shiny objects.

“I’ve seen everything that the devil could’ve showed you via TV, videos, car dealerships, jewellery, houses, and I’ll tell you…Nothing beats God and a sound mind.”

In that preacher mode, he declared, “Let’s not be concerned with the opinions of men at all. Only the opinion of God. I know we say this is the culture or that is the culture. To be radically in service to Christ is the only culture that I want to know about.”

West went on to thank God, saying, “Thank you for saving me, for replenishing me, for delivering me. When I found out about you, I got closer to my children.

“I got closer to my family, because the devil had me chasing a gold statue, had me chasing cars, had me chasing numbers. The power of God cannot be calculated by a number, a first-week sale, by a bank account, by how many cars you drive, by how big your house is, how many acres you got.

“It’s God inside of us. It’s God inside of family. It’s God inside of friendship that we hold each other accountable. If you see somebody slipping, you tell them.”

West added, “When the devil accuses me of speaking up too much, I’m just pointing to the Word.”

Net worth

West placed fourth on the 2019 ranking of the world’s wealthiest hip-hop artists, according to Forbes, with a net worth of $240m (N74bn).

This is said to be a big turnaround for the rapper who claimed he was $53m (N16bn) in debt back in 2016.

“I write this to you my brothers while still 53 million dollars in personal debt,” he said in a tweet at the time.

Apart from income from music, West has made a lot of money thanks to his Yeezy footwear collection from collaboration with Adidas.

According to Forbes, Yeezy is expected to make around $1.5bn (N460bn) in sales in 2019.

Residence and cars

West, Kardashian and their children live in a secluded mansion in Hidden Hills, California, which reportedly costs $60m (N16bn).

The mansion’s hallway is decorated with stone-like sculptures; the master bedroom is described as “the size of an airplane hangar.”

The home’s interior design is the work of Belgian minimalist, Axel Vervoordt, and has a 130-inch flat-screen TV embedded into the floor across from the bed.

The master bedroom leads to a massive bathroom with baffling sinks while the sitting rooms are decorated with rounded white chairs and curvy white sofas.

In the living room sits an unbleached Steinway piano, with soft light emanating from subtle, boxy fixtures.

The kitchen is massive and impressive and has a big dining set which can seat up to 20 persons comfortably.

Speaking of his garage, West has a great taste for cars. From Lamborghinis to Ferraris to Rolls-Royces, and even a G-Wagon, West and his wife own some of the amazing cars anyone could dream of.

Some of the luxurious cars that dot West’s garage are a Mercedes SLR Stirling Moss, a Porsche Panamera, a Mercedes SLR McLaren, a Lamborghini Gallardo and a Lamborghini Aventador.

The rapper also owns an Aston Martin DB9, a Maybach 57, a Bugatti Veyron and a Prombron Red Diamond edition armoured vehicle.

Sources: foxnews.com, en.wikipedia.org, forbes.com, metro.co.uk, insider.com, hotcars.com

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]