People’s Hero TV show begins on Saturday
Chux Ohai

For the next 10 weeks, beginning from Saturday September 21, 2019, audiences will be thrilled to a rich and colourful experience of entertainment and culture on MTV Base as The People’s Hero Talent hunts show begins.

Announcing this in Lagos, the Senior Channels Manager for Viacom International Media Networks Africa, Solafunmi Oyeneye, said that after a series of auditions in Enugu and Owerri, which attracted almost 2,000 youths from the South-East and South-South geopolitical zones, 20 talented people were selected to contest for the grand prize of N7 million naira and the consolation prizes of N2 million and N1 million for the first and second runners-up, respectively.

Oyeneye also said that the show would commence with the broadcast of episodes from the pre-audition activations across five states in the South-East and South-South. Subsequent episodes, she added, will feature the auditions in Enugu and Owerri.

Describing the auditions as an exciting experience that the audience cannot afford to miss, she said the massive turnout of raw talents and deep knowledge of the culture by the youths, as displayed during the auditions, were breathtaking. The Marketing Manager, Hero Lager Beer, Mr. Obumneke Okoli, gave the assurance that the show would entertain, excite and educate the anticipated audiences, especially those from the South-East and South-South, on the relevance of their culture. According to him, it is amazing to see our young ones demonstrate a detailed understanding of the South-eastern culture in diverse contemporary styles.

Okoli reiterated that The People’s Hero TV show is a platform to celebrate the culture of the people, as well as to offer opportunities to young talents to express themselves along the skills of singing, dancing, spoken word and acting.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]