Some people thought my political career was a joke – Ibinabo Fiberesima
Tofarati Ige

Actress and a former president of the Actors’ Guild of Nigeria, Ibinabo Fiberesima, revealed to Sunday Scoop that some people didn’t take her political career seriously because she was an actor.

She said, “At the party level, yes (some people did not take me seriously). But in my constituency, they took me seriously. They knew who I was and what I wanted to be. At the party level, they thought it was a joke because they see us as entertainers that don’t understand politics.”

Recall that last year, Fiberesima contested the position of chairman of Okrika Local Government Area in her native Rivers State, albeit unsuccessfully. Sharing her experience with our correspondent, she stated, “For me, it was an eye-opener. It was an opportunity to bond with my people and understand the challenges they face. I pray that one day, politicians will have the people at heart and not their selfish interest, because service to the nation is all about the passion you have for your countrymen. It is only in Lagos State that I see people with the passion to serve and do things for the people.”

The former beauty pageant manager also stated that the experience taught her patience. “I have learnt to be more patient. One shouldn’t rush into anything; one must first understand the situation.”

READ ALSO: I wasn’t affected by xenophobic attacks in South Africa – Mr Rise

On her achievements as the president of the AGN, she said, “I don’t like blowing my own trumpet. I am sure my members would be in a better position to answer the question. As for me, I was just there to serve and build a structure that would benefit actors. I did everything in my power to make sure that actors are taken care of.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]