2019 Beeta Playwright Competition closes September 30
Chux Ohai

The Beeta Universal Arts Foundation, led by Bikiya Graham-Douglas, is inviting playwrights from across the country to apply for its third edition of Beeta Playwright Competition by sending in their unpublished plays. The first edition of the contest produced Our Son the Minister, written by Paul Ugbede and Jagagba by Abdul Qudus-Ibrahim for its second edition. Both plays have gone on to experience enormous success in terms of prize money, which is N1m, apublishing deal and live performances. The competition aims to find new voices in the literary genre of drama in Nigerian literature.

The Beeta Universal Playwright Competition is open to indigenous playwrights between the ages of 18-40. The deadline for all entries is September 30, 2019. Ten finalists will be selected for a writer’s workshop with a winner emerging at the grand finale. The winner stands to win prizes worth N1 million, a publishing deal with PaperWorth Books Limited and the winning play produced by BUAF at Muson Centre, Lagos. It will also be part of a nationwide university campus performance outreach.

An esteemed panel of judges comprising award-winning playwright and professor of drama, Ahmed Yerima, culture/film journalist and arts Administrator, Shaibu Husseini, veteran Actress and producer, Ego Boyo, theatre producer and writer, Ayo Jaiyesimi, director and actor Kenneth Uphopho, as well as publisher/bookseller, Ibiso Graham-Douglas, will curate the playwright workshop and decide the eventual winner of the prize.

For the third edition, BUAF enjoys the partnership of Union Bank Plc, with its high-ranking representatives not only recognising how invaluable the arts is to preserving and showcasing culture and history but also committed to developing talent in the creative industry.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]