Nothing moral about public sexual acts – Etinosa
Olajide Samuel

Atress, Etinosa Idemudia, was in the news sometime ago for stripping on a live Instagram video with singer, MC Galaxy. The act generated a lot of controversy with many berating both individuals. However, while commenting on the ongoing Big Brother Naija 2019, Idemudia stated that there was no justification for public sexual acts. She said, “I haven’t seen live sex on the show. All I have seen have been under the sheets, and one really cannot tell what they are doing. There is nothing moral about pubic sexual activities. It is not to be encouraged. However, if housemates were to have something in that regard, I believe the show is rated 18 and there is parental control. Viewers have been informed of what is on offer from the onset, so I don’t think people should be concerned about that. Meanwhile, why is everyone idolising the sexual content on the show when there are other educative tasks done by the housemates?”

Idemudia also raised not a few eyebrows during the week when she penned a letter to prostitutes, otherwise known as ‘runs girls’. She wrote, “When God or the universe puts you into intimate contact with big politicians and men that can make things happen, please help us speak to them. Money can finish in two days but the value you could bring to the country is everlasting and will also favour you in the long run.”

Speaking on the motive behind her post, she told our correspondent, “The message is directed at everyone in the society. Wherever you find yourself, if you are opportune to meet anyone that can help your future, or your people, please talk to them to do their job. Help us beg them. As individuals, if we collectively start to do our work and sit up, things will get better in the country.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]