Gifty always attacks me to stay relevant – Mr 2Kay
Kore Ogidan

The drama between former Big Brother Naija star, Gifty Powers, and her ex-boyfriend, Mr 2Kay, doesn’t seem like it would end soon. During the week, 2Kay had tried clearing the air that current BBN housemate, Tacha, doesn’t have body odour, as was rumoured. However, a Twitter user responded to his post, saying he was sure Gifty left him because of his inability to smell. Gifty also commented on the post.

However, in a chat with Sunday Scoop, Mr 2kay, the alleged father of Gifty’s child, said he was not at war with her. He stated, “I am a free-spirited person. Have you ever seen me attack her? She’s the one always attacking me. I was saying that I know Tacha and she doesn’t have body odour. People misinterpreted that to mean I had seen her in the morning before her shower, when she is actually my sister. When Gifty involved herself, I didn’t respond to her. She is the mother of my daughter and I respect my kid, so I won’t react. She doesn’t understand this and she seizes every opportunity to attack me. She’s always using me to stay relevant. Whether I sing or not, I’ll still be relevant but who remembers her name when mentioned? Her existence is tied to me.”

He maintained that the bitterness stems from her wanting to continue dating him while he has moved on. “Some people get angry about what they can’t have. We used to be together and she wanted us to continue but I refused because I didn’t want to be with her kind of person anymore. She was already pregnant at the time and had a child for me but I didn’t want to continue. I thought we should concentrate on our child but she’s angry she can’t have me back,” he said.

Despite Gifty’s claim that the child isn’t his, Mr 2kay stated, “I know the kid is mine and even if you ask her (Gifty’s) mother, she will say the same thing. When Gifty was pregnant, she denied it. When she had the baby, she denied it also. She’ll soon deny her own self. I was making my own contribution to take care of the baby. At the moment, I can’t take care of her because of my work schedule and she’s just about to turn two. I know my responsibilities as a father and I perform them and the mother has to do her bit as well. Gifty asked for an outrageous sum of money for a kid that hadn’t clocked one year and she told my sister that she was going to give my kid to another person. I didn’t object but I just said that the kid would look for her real father when she’s grown.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]