I was born with hilarious disposition — I Go Dye
Comedian and social commentator, Francis Agoda, aka I Go Dye, shares his experiences and exploits in the Nigerian comedy industry with OLAJIDE SAMUEL

How did you start your comedy career?

I have been fortunate to have been born with a hilarious disposition. As a young child, I was often caught in the web of humour. Each time I expressed my observations on some issues, it was generally seen as a comic gesture. However, I started developing the talent when I was invited to functions in secondary schools and other social events back then.

Who gave you the first opportunity in the industry?

Artistically, I went through a series of developmental stages, but my major breakthrough came through Nite of a Thousand Laughs in 2000. That was the defining moment that paved the way for other opportunities and expanded my profile and popularity.

How were you able to surmount some of the challenges you faced at the start of your career?

I had always accepted the fact that all situations are not often pleasant. I make up my mind, waiting for the best or worst at all times. I grew up accepting that I cannot win all the time, hence I do my best and leave the rest to nature and the gracefulness of God to grant me success in all my endeavours.

Why do you think comedians fade off the scene too quickly?

In my view, an artiste does not fade off, it’s just that priorities might differ at certain stages. It gives room to venture into other prospects. More so, the trend of life is never constant. Certain unforeseen circumstances might change the artiste’s or comedian’s thoughts towards his or her career.

How did you spend your first million?

I spent my first million right from my mother’s womb; the gift of life and grace to either stay alive or become successful starts there. From early childhood, I had started earning money as an independent person. I obviously can’t be specific about the exact time I made my first million, but it was way back as we stepped into this millennium.

Do you have plans of going into politics?

Man is a political animal. Directly or indirectly, we are caught inside it on a daily basis. In my view, once you are born into this world, everything you do always has a political angle; either to persuade or to bring certain benefits and displeasure to the notice of others. Since we all found ourselves wading through these paths even in our subconscious mind, it’s important that we accept that the world is founded on religious beliefs and political ideology, which is built on a struggle to walk in the right way as guided by the doctrines of God or men. So, politics is already inside everyone of us.

What is your take on housemates having sex on BBNaija?

In Africa, sex is often seen as taboo, regardless of the fact that it is the source of our existence in the first place. However, I feel every society has been penetrated with civilisation. We can’t change the trends associated with this generation. I still believe in the relevance of our cultural background. As Africans, sex still and ought to remain private, not to be displayed like other animals in the animal kingdom. We should tread with caution and create more values that will make the younger generation more focused, rather than encouraging early sex through some of our entertainment media.

What made you gift your son a mansion for his ninth birthday?

I had grown up realising the value of a home to us in Africa. All our parent’s quest for survival was just to have the capacity to own a house, somewhere they could truly call home. I just wanted people to realise that we shouldn’t wait for our demise before we create assets for our children. I want to use this medium to appeal to the government that they should expand the housing reach to all Nigerians, because it all starts from where we lay our head. No matter how big or small we are, the beauty of having a personal house is the first victory towards total freedom.

You are known as one of the most vocal Nigerian entertainers, what drives you?

The love for my country and the responsibility to make the world a better place than how I met it drives me

Does being a social commentator affect your job?

It doesn’t affect my job; rather it gives me more insights and inspiration to bring in realistic issues into my form of comedy.

What common mistakes do you think comedians make?

Some comedians make the mistake of disrespecting those that contracted them for a job when they are delivering their jokes. In addition, the anxiety of getting a standing ovation at all times also puts them under pressure.

How do you conquer stage fright?

I conquer stage fright by just being myself and taking the stage as a normal arena, like a mindless kid playing on the sand, without no strong desire to compete with my thoughts or the wishes of others.

What are you doing to empower the next generation?

I empower them through my personal life and creating an avenue for our leaders to listen to the plight of the people.

How would you rate the Buhari administration?

I will rate the Buhari-led administration as fairly okay. But a lot needs to be done in the power sector. This government has to be able to hold those meant to provide and transmit energy accountable. This administration should be proactive by establishing other ways of generating electricity, while also revoking or mandating those companies with the existing licences to wake up to their responsibilities.

What other businesses do you engage in outside of entertainment?

We run a revamp construction company which is into real estate and road construction.

How do you think depression can be handled?

Man was created with a thought to deliver on certain obligations right from birth, hence the feeling to achieve all pursuits will always exist. However, the only way to conquer depression is to come to the understanding that there is nothing new under the sun. Your achievements will become history someday. Once this insight is accepted within our heart, then we shall be contented, stay calm against all odds and love ourselves.

How do you like to dress?

I love simplicity, with a touch of class in my dress code.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]