Nigerian music underrated outside Africa –Smade
Olajide Samuel

Many wonder why the world seems to be paying attention to Afrobeats. Unknown to them, the bulk of the job is being done by show promoters who are hardly given accolades.

Adesegun Adeosun, fondly called Smade , is regarded as one of the most sought after Afrobeats promoter in the United Kingdom.

The bearded young man who has hosted Tiwa Savage, Olamide, Simi, Wizkid, Davido and others in the UK opened up to Saturday Beats about some of the challenges he encountered when he started promoting African music.

He said, “When we started doing concerts, it was very tough because not many people believed it would work, so they were sceptical about buying tickets. We had to work very hard. We had a lot of losses and most times, we didn’t even break even. However, we overcame the tough times because I knew the vision was a lot bigger. After a while, people started seeing results and believing in the brand. At a point, I even had to source for funds from my retail work back then.”

Explaining his passion for promoting African music, Smade said it started way back in his university days.

“When I was at university, I really enjoyed gathering people together in social settings. I had just come from Nigeria and the likes of 2baba (Plantashun Boiz), Tony Tetuila (Remedies), Awilo, Sir Shina Peters, among others, were the ones reigning then. I noticed the UK hadn’t really got into the groove of things. So, we just used to throw parties but the DJ’s would always make sure there was an Afrobeat set. It was just natural because I love African music; it’s what I grew up listening to,” he stated.

Smade also noted that Nigerian music is underrated outside Africa. He added, “In terms of getting accolades, awards and airplay, what we get is different from what other genres get. However, people are starting to be more aware of the amazing music coming out of Nigeria and Africa. There is more exposure on this side and it’s just a matter of time before all the focus is on us. For now, Afrobeats or Afropop is the fastest growing genre. I would say Nigeria is the pioneer right now in the industry.”

The show promoter further stated that his dream would have been to work with Fela in his prime, adding that the Afrobeat legend had so much wisdom in his music. “My dream artiste would have been Fela in his prime. He had so much wisdom to share. He was so real and was never afraid to speak through his music. It would have been amazing to be around than but my dream right now is to grow with the artistes I work with,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]