Burna Boy refunds ‘boring’ fan, asks him to leave front row
Afro-fusion star, Damini Ogulu aka Burna Boy has garnered controversy after he refunded a fan, he considered ‘boring’, money spent on his ticket, as well as asked him to leave the front row during a performance.

News Agency of Nigeria reports that the incident happened during the Atlanta stop of his ‘African Giant’ tour on Tuesday.

While Burna Boy was performing, he noticed a fan standing in front standing still and not swaying to the music.

He took a break from the energetic performance and called out the fan. Burna Boy went on to refund the fan his hundred dollars ticket.

He also asked security to escort the fan out of the venue saying, “Your face is not encouraging.” He later said, the fan could stay but should move to the back, as the front row was meant for his true fans.

READ ALSO: Atiku vs Buhari: Key decisions reached in the main judgment so far

Burna Boy reportedly later called the fan on stage to dance with him and apologised for his actions.

The event, recorded in a now-viral video, has generated mixed reactions from fans of the ‘Anybody’ singer.

While some applauded Burna Boy for correcting the negative vibe the fan put out, others chided the singer for humiliating a fan who came to enjoy the show.

@Chukwufunayam said, “It’s okay to humiliate a human being because it’s Burna Boy? That’s poor showmanship but what do I know.”

@Zaddy_nomso tweeted, “Not necessary though. Some people might not want to dance as they don’t know how to.

“But they paid and want to see him perform. Not everyone will dance at your show, you just ignore and focus on the good energy from others.”

@Kolatoye said, “This is funny really. I feel, as a performer, people pay to watch you perform. People don’t pay to come and encourage or give you any kind of energy.

“If you are lucky and blessed to have fans that light up your fire and fan your flame beautiful otherwise focus on your performance.”

@Dhlamini said, “I’d be so embarrassed if I was the guy but at the same, how can you not dance to Burna boy’s music?”

NAN reports that Burna Boy is currently on a tour tagged ‘African Giant’, the same name as his new 19-track album.

(NAN)