Actor writes open letter to Buhari
Tofarati Ige

Saddened by the worsening state of insecurity in the country, an actor, Olushola Michaels, has written an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari.

Michaels called on the president to act decisively to bring an end to the killings going on in different parts of the country. He wrote, “Mr President, I do hope you are restless like every other Nigerian? I hope you have a bit of sympathy for the people you govern? I want to believe that the silence from you is for a better cause? I hope you are deliberating on how to put a halt to the killings and inhumane treatments meted out to our brothers and sisters? Why is the solution to these mishaps so slow like the crawling of a snail? It is sad that you keep mute anytime a situation poses a threat to human lives. For how long do we continue to look on? Should we continue living in fear for years before help finds us? Sometimes, I wonder what kind of leader we claim to have.”

The actor also advised Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to resign his position if the Federal Government failed to find a lasting solution to the ‘crisis’ in the country. He added, “The fact that Prof Osinbajo who claims to love this nation is also sitting back without uttering any words is disheartening. I will advise him to resign honourably before he loses his integrity. Power is transient but the deeds that men do live after them.”

READ ALSO: Mr Eazi has apologised to me over copyright infringement – Zaaki Azzay

Reacting to the wanton killings of innocent youths by security operatives, Michaels wrote, “To those who have misplaced priorities, whose only joy is to arrest innocent youths and cause them unbearable pain, I hope they remember that what goes around comes around. Security agencies such as the Nigeria Police Force and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission were created to curb crime, not to harass and kill hapless citizens. Whoever brought up the slogan, ‘The Police is your friend’ obviously isn’t in Nigeria because the reverse is the case. To all those who have the power to protect our own and curb these acts yet fold their hands and watch on, may the blood of the innocent people cut down in their prime continue to haunt them.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]