Why I dressed like a prisoner to UN conference — Lamboginny
Olajide Samuel

When Yinka Lawanson, aka Lamboginny, attended a UN conference in the United States clad in prison uniform, he wasn’t allowed into the venue of the event.

Less than a month later, the Nigerian afro-dancehall artiste and prison reforms advocate got officially invited by the United Nations Global Communication Department to be a speaker at the Civil Society Conference in Salt Lake, Utah, US.

In a chat with Sunday Scoop, Lamboginny said he dressed like a prisoner to draw the world’s attention to the deplorable conditions of prisons in Nigeria and across Africa. He stated, “I wanted to draw the world’s attention to the poor state of prisons in Nigeria and across Africa. I wanted to use the UN platform to plead with the global community to have a forgiving heart towards anyone returning from prison. Let’s put an end to the stigmatisation of ex-convicts and build a peaceful inclusive society leaving no one behind. When I got denied entry into the UN conference the first time, it showed me how much society doesn’t want anything to do with anyone returning from prison. Consider how they felt seeing me wearing the uniform and imagine what the real inmates go through. But, I’m happy the UN finally gave me a chance to deliver my speech dressed as a prisoner. My interview was also published on the UN News website.”

READ ALSO: Much Ado about CGPA at Benue varsity

The Kirikiri don Full singer maintained that he is driven by his love for humanity. “My driving force is firstly my love for all humanity, regardless of religion, culture, nationality or class. Secondly, it breaks my heart to see thousands of inmates awaiting trial for years without knowing their fate. The prison is not a dumping ground; it’s supposed to be for a correctional purpose. Most importantly, I believe in second chances and I think most inmates deserve one.”

Lamboginny who tied the knot earlier in the year also said he felt blessed for ‘having the best partner’, and that his wife was his biggest supporter.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]