I build relationship with my audience –Demola Expoze
Social media personality, Ademola Adetona, aka Demola Expoze, speaks with DAVID OLADUNJOYE on being an influencer and other issues

How would you describe your journey into the social media space?

I started with a campus magazine back when I was a student of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomosho, Oyo State, 11 years ago. I have always had an eye for trends and taking advantage of them. Today , we have grown into a group of companies centred on ideation, strategy, innovation and business growth

How were you able to get so many followers?

I jumped on the OccupyNigeria trend in 2012. I built a relationship with my audience by constantly following and giving updates on trending topics.

Are you satisfied with the number of followers you have now?

Attitude is more powerful than the numbers, but I want more really.

Have you had the opportunity to meet some of your online fans in person?

Yes, I have met a lot of them. I have even hired some and mentored some but the truth is, one cannot keep up with everybody.

Have you ever thought of leaving social media because of online bullying?

No, I have not

What inspired the word, Brozay, which you often use?

It is slang for brother. That is my signature greeting slang. Then it became a household name. I also named my shoe brand and car store, Brozay

Do you have lots of celebrity followers?

Maybe. I don’t really know but I follow a few of them.

Have you ever been involved in any violent encounter in your line of work?

There has been none, except a Twitter account hack from supposed business partners, but I let it go.

What’s the weirdest message you have got from a follower?

I’m very cultured with my dealings. You wouldn’t find a weird message in my inbox.

How lucrative is it being a social media influencer?

It is very lucrative. I built my empire with the returns I made on social media. I have met people that I wouldn’t otherwise have come in contact with. I have flown first class for free, and I have been featured in so many publications. But it doesn’t stop there; innovation and reinvention is major or else, the noise will die

What influences the jobs you take?

I always consider if it is within my target audience.

Have you ever turned down any job?

Yes. I don’t accept campaigns with no aim. The first thing I ask my clients is what they want to achieve. If there’s no clear directive, I wouldn’t get on board.

Also, when I’m working on a brand, it is not ethical to do anything with the competition at the same time. You have to switch or pick a struggle. I don’t do smear campaigns too.

When you first joined social media, did you know you were going to be an influencer?

Never! Back then, nobody wanted to be tagged social media marketers, but the narrative is changing. We now have sophisticated names such as ‘strategist’, ‘community manager’, and ‘influencer’, among others.

What are your other interests apart from social media?

I have always loved shoemaking. I have a shoemaking factory and a shoemaking school. My love for shoes brought me here.

Have you ever felt that people look down on you because of what you do?

Initially, yes. But we are now been appreciated. People have even ‘unfollowed’ me because of the many sponsored posts I upload. At first, my dad didn’t like the job, and he tried to get me a salaried job on several occasions.

Would you consider leaving social media if you get a good job offer?

Social media is here to stay. There’s no offer that would take me off social media. My shoemaking business is taking my time though but not completely off social media. I have an agency that manages lots of assets online so I can’t afford to be offline for too long.

Since the advent of social media, what is the longest you have been away from the Internet?

Every month, I take two days off the Internet. I shut down completely and remain offline whenever I need to be in my creative space.

If you were to advise someone who wants to be a social media influencer, what would you tell them?

Firstly, find a niche, so when the field gets saturated, you would stand out. Secondly, be diligent; attitude is more powerful than social status.

Have you ever wished your popularity on social media spanned across real life as well?

No. I’m a very private person and I have never wished for that. I prefer to leave everything online.

Some social media users complain of poor Internet access. Do you have challenges in that regard?

The good thing is that there are varieties. If one doesn’t favour you, probably because of location, then you switch to another. Things are even getting better now because the connection was even slower years back.

When you started this business, did you know it was going to be profitable?

Honestly, I did not. I was focusing on the magazine then, before I started doing Internet marketing. As time went by, I structured the business, and here we are today. In all, I can confidently say that God has been good.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]