How SARS kidnapped, assaulted, robbed me —Rapper, Ikechukwu
Nigeria rapper and actor, Ikechukwu Onunaku, known as Ikechukwu, has alleged that he was attacked by operatives of the Special Anti Robbery Squad on Wednesday night, at the Lekki Phase 1 area of Lagos State.

The ace rapper said the SARS operatives pulled him out of the Uber he was in, bundled him into their Hilux van and drove him to Lagos Island.

Ikechukwu took to his Instagram page to narrate his ordeal, he wrote that he was assaulted and forced to empty his ATM account even though one of them recognised him as a popular personality.

The rapper further said the SARS operatives said they would implicate him If he dared proved stubborn.

“I was kidnapped by SARS last night. Two mins away from my house, taken to Lagos island and made to exhaust my atm allowance or I would be killed and no one would know”, Ikechukwu wrote.

The rapper further wrote that, Not by armed robbers. But when u are robbed and they are armed fully, 5 ak-47’s. Blows to the head and bundled into a vehicle. Isn’t it the same thing. And then after u will now tell me our govt is working. Things are in place. Bla Bla. Let me tell u now straight up. I don’t care who u are if u are rolling solo in this town and sars get u. Day or night. If they get ur phone. It’s over for u. They don’t have names or numbers on their uniforms.

They literally said to me ” na u burn this our Hilux here yesterday abii”. Acting like they didn’t know who I was and were gonna rope me in anything they felt or do with me what they would. After collecting all the money in Lagos island they start laughing telling me I’m too stubborn that when will I introduce them to don jazzy.

Oh, so u know me. One even bragged about working a lot with wazobiafm. Thanx for that info at least now I have a point to start my own investigation. I could’ve been shot and left in the dark space on that dark road. No id no phone. Who would id me? Who would be looking for me for days? Afterall my people saw me enter uber heading home. On the island. Shey, I’m safe. Good morning. It’s a good day to be alive.

I don’t even know what hashtag to put sef. It’s ok. I recorded a video initially from when I got home last night but it was too long and it made me cry again. So I just said lemme just yan straight no need for in the moment. Just the facts. We are not safe. End of story. Know as u dey take move.

Shout out to @@chris_yaks who was with me thru the whole ordeal. I hope to say u dey alright.

See Post Below: