Nigerians are my most vocal fans – Mawuli Gavor
Ghanaian actor, Mawuli Gavor, tells KORE OGIDAN about his experience being an actor in Nigeria

You moved to Nigeria for your acting career. How has the industry been to you?

The Nigerian film industry is not a breeze but if you surround yourself with the right people, anything is possible. Since I got to Nigeria, I’ve had some amazing people in my corner. I came to Nigeria because of my friend, Chris Attoh, and he hooked me up with the job I got with Mnet. The people at Mnet took me in and those at Ebonylife also took me in as their family. I can’t say that it was rosy when I came but God has been good and with the right people around me, I’ve been able to sail through.

What spurred your decision to move to Nigeria?

I’d moved back to Ghana from the US after school and I’d been there for about a year and a half. I was working as an accountant and continued my modelling from where I stopped in New York City. I had to pick one because I was very involved in modelling and I had to maintain my regular job. Then, I came to Nigeria primarily to shoot the Mnet telenovela, Hush, although I flew in briefly just to have a meeting with them. The meeting went well and I got invited to shoot with the other cast on set. I agreed and came but with the intention of being here for a few months. It’s interesting to say that I’ve been here for almost three years now.

How would you compare the Nigerian film industry with that of Ghana?

At the moment, the Nigerian film industry is of standard because corporate bodies have invested in entertainment and have been of value. There are companies and brands willing to invest in the entertainment scene. This makes it easier to shoot movies, television series and even host premieres. The system here makes it easier in terms of numbers, but regarding quality, I think it’s about the same on both sides. We are both capable of doing great things. The Nigerian industry has the infrastructure to enable it do well and the Ghanaians are doing very amazing things, too.

How accommodating have Nigerians been to you?

Nigerians have been fantastic and I don’t know why. I have to say a huge thank you to all my Nigerian fans. I find that they are the most vocal fan base I’ve ever had, which is fascinating, considering I’m not from here. I owe pretty much everything to the people here who have chosen to support me. Nigerians have been good to me.

How did you transition from working at a corporate job, to modelling and then acting?

I always knew that I could act. I always knew I could do all of these things but the family I was born into was a ‘finance family’ so everyone studied Business and Finance. When I was a teenager, I started modelling part-time under an agency. When I came to back to Ghana after my university education, an opportunity presented itself to be a brand ambassador and I was to travel between Nigeria and Ghana. So, I got into the entertainment industry through modelling and I started getting offers for shows and acting. I went in for some acting classes and ended up doing it a lot more. At some point, I had to leave my job as there was no way I could shuffle flying to Nigeria and Ghana because I had a full-time job and it was not the type that I could be flying around.

Tell us about your educational background.

For my tertiary education, I attended Franklin and Marshall College, Lancaster, Pennsylvania, USA.

Tell us about your background.

I have two siblings— a brother and a sister, who are based in America. We all moved to the USA for school but they stayed and I came back to work. My parents are also in Ghana. We had a regular childhood.

How did your parents react to you moving to Nigeria?

My parents are interesting people. They believe that if something makes you happy, you should do it. We had a discussion and they supported my decision. They were a little surprised and worried because I was leaving an accounting job for entertainment. It’s rather strange for any African parent to hear that but in the end, they supported me and it has paid off.

What bad experiences have you had in the entertainment industry?

I would not really call them bad experiences. I’ll call them normal experiences because compared to others, I have had a pretty good life. I have had my ups and downs but in comparison to the lives of other people, I wouldn’t really say I’ve had any particularly bad experience. I can’t claim that I struggled although relatively, I had my struggling times. I put many things in perspective and as long as I have had it better than some others, I can’t say I’ve had it bad.

It seems you get the same type of roles because of your looks. Would you like more challenging roles?

I get offered all sorts of roles but it’s up to me to decide if I want to play them or not. I get offered a lot of challenging roles but if they don’t suit me or if the budget or the negotiations don’t work out, I decline them. There is really no restriction to the sort of roles I’m called to play but I pick and choose the ones I can connect with and then we go from there.

What projects are you currently working on?

The one I’m focusing on is a Jamaican film titled Joseph. I just got back from Jamaica and we were filming the first major Afro-Caribbean collaboration, which is a big project. It’s about a Jamaican guy connecting with his African roots. It’s slated to be released in December. I also have a small production company and we have done two productions so far. The first one, titled Entangled, was done in 2017, and the other one, A Sunday Kind of Love, would be coming out soon. Finally, I am working on another production titled, The Sugar Rush, which is also coming out in December. When I am not acting, I enjoy producing.

What are your hobbies?

I enjoy playing the guitar, listening to music and playing sports. I don’t have a lot of free time because I am either in the gym or doing something related to music or sports. I don’t do anything else with my time. I grew up playing the drums and piano. I learnt how to play the guitar myself on YouTube, so that is my new hobby.

How would you describe your style?

I like simplicity with a bit of personalisation. Sometimes, I go wild and try other things. I can work with almost anything. What’s important to me is finding a way to combine it. I also collaborate with many people.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]