I used to make up stories as a kid — Daniel Etim-Effiong
Actor and producer, Daniel Etim-effiong, shares what he’s learnt in the film industry with KORE OGIDAN

Tell us about your background.

I was born in Jaji, Kaduna State. My dad was in the military. After a while, we moved to Benin, Edo State, where I stayed for a few years. We then moved to Lagos State, where I had most of my elementary and secondary school education. Eventually, we moved to Abuja.

Tell us about your educational background.

I studied Chemical Engineering as my first degree at the Federal University of Technology, Minna, Niger State, and worked as an engineer in the oil and gas industry before I changed careers. I then went to South Africa to study Film Making, Writing and Directing at the AFDA Film School. Afterwards, I went to study Film Making as a course at the University of Johannesburg.

For my elementary education, I attended St Mary’s Private School, Lagos Island, Lagos; and Government College, Ikorodu, Lagos, for my secondary education.

How did you get into the film industry?

I had always known that I would make films, and tell stories from as early as my second year in the university. Prior to that, I was a great storyteller; so I used to gather my friends and narrate the films I’d seen to them. I used to also make up stories and tell them about them. These were usually of movies that didn’t exist, and I typically did that when I had run out of movies to share. I was basically known as a story teller. I was also great with the sciences, so my teachers made me take science classes. When I got to the university, I studied Engineering. While studying, I had a strong conviction that I was going to make films. I didn’t know how it would happen but I knew it would. While working as an engineer, I went on production sets and attended auditions till I started landing roles. One day, I felt very strongly that it was time to make the shift. I didn’t tell anyone because that would have scared my family.

Interestingly, when I was in the university, I had told my family that I wanted to quit my course and start afresh by enrolling in Theatre Arts. They all thought I had lost my senses and talked me into finishing my engineering course. When I finally decided to quit working in oil and gas and become an actor, I decided it best not to tell them. After resigning, I immediately got a job as a content producer for Ndani Television; as a result of my network. It was a huge break and a soft-landing into the film industry.

Prior to that, I’d acted in minor roles in movies and web series. After working at Ndani Television for a few years, I felt the need to equip myself for the journey I was on and went to South Africa for three years to study film.

Did you have fears when entering the film industry?

I did fear how I was going to sustain myself. I felt the industry was quite unstable and almost erratic. One couldn’t predict how often one would get jobs. There are many talented people who aren’t doing very well and others who aren’t particularly gifted, who are very successful. My major fear was around the uncertainties that surround the film industry. However, it was a step of faith coming in although very scary. I was single at the time but I knew I would eventually get married. The thought of bringing someone into this world of uncertainty did frighten me. However, I let my faith lead me rather than logic.

What are the lessons you’ve learnt being an actor in Nollywood?

I had to quickly learn that it is a very special platform and industry. Like many things in Nigeria, it has its unique ways of working. Coming from South Africa, I’d learnt to do many things a certain way but I had to relearn many things in Nollywood. Being in the creative industry in Nigeria, it almost has to conform to the uniqueness of being Nigerian. Adaptation to the peculiarities of the Nigerian condition is a very important lesson to learn. I also learnt that the industry is thriving and is one of the best things to ever happen to Nigeria. We have the power to tell our stories and we are exporting our culture everywhere.

I have also learnt that one shouldn’t wait for the conditions to be perfect in the industry. You have to start from somewhere and grow through the process. You’ll encounter difficulties but you’ll learn the process and develop. Learning on the job and learning from your mistakes is a huge part of the industry. You must also learn from your mistakes. Finally, I’ve learnt that although many people don’t like collaboration, it is key.

How does your wife react to your relationship with other ladies in the industry?

My wife, Toyosi, is very understanding about my job. She knows that acting is my career and she respects the fact that I’m a professional and I handle my job with utmost professionalism. Sometimes, we have cordial relationships with our co-stars outside the set and I try to make it a family affair. I don’t keep private relationships with my female colleagues and they in return respect my space as a family man. She is also in entertainment and we are open and sincere with each another.

What are your hobbies?

I enjoy reading, travelling, swimming and dancing. I watch a lot of movies as well.

How would you describe your style?

I think it’s quirky and laid back. I guess it’s a result of my temperament. While in South Africa, I picked up a Bohemian vibe about my styling.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]