Nkechi Blessing-Sunday begs for Bobrisky’s ‘release’
Samson Folarin

Actress, Nkechi Blessing-Sunday, has uploaded a video of herself going on her knees to beg the Inspector General of Police on behalf of popular cross-dresser, Bobrisky, who was allegedly arrested by the police after his planned party was shut down. She said, “I am a very emotional person; I’m close to tears. They said the arrest was on the orders of the Inspector General of Police. So, what do they want us to do? Should we go on our knees and beg them publicly? Please, fellow Nigerians, we must do this party tonight. On behalf of Bobrisky, please forgive us,” as she went on her knees.

However, it is not clear whether Bobrisky has indeed been arrested. The Lagos State Police Command said it stormed the venue of the birthday party due to sensitive information it received.

The police spokesperson, Bala Elkana, said this during a brief interview with Sunday Scoop on Saturday.

He said, “I can confirm that we sealed off the place based on credible information. That is all I will say for now until the operation is over.”

Efforts by our correspondent to know the details of the information were abortive, as the police spokesperson declined to give details.

The police had stormed the venue of Bobrisky’s birthday party which was said to have been attended by some celebrities as well as cross-dressers and homosexuals.

Bobrisky, whose real name is Idris Okuneye, hosted the party at ‘The Pearl Gardens’, Wole Olateju Crescent, Off Admiralty Way, Lekki Phase 1, Lagos.

Earlier in the week, the Director-General of the National Council for Arts and Culture, Otunba Olusegun Runsewe, threatened to go after Bobrisky and others like him, describing the cross-dresser as a disgrace to the nation.

The police had earlier in the year warned all homosexuals to flee the country or be dealt with in accordance to the Anti-Same Sex Marriage law which prescribes a 14-year jail term for all persons involved in a homosexual relationship.

READ ALSO: Why we invaded Bobrisky’s birthday party — Police

Former Public Relations Officer of the Zone 2 Police Command, Mrs Dolapo Badmos, had said “If you are homosexually inclined, Nigeria is not a place for you. There is a law (Same Sex Prohibition Act) here that criminalises homosexual clubs, associations and organisations with penalties of up to 15 years in jail.

“So, if you are a homosexual in nature, leave the country or face prosecution. But before you say, ‘does this matter?’ Kindly note that anything against the law of the land is criminal and all crimes will be punished accordingly no matter how small you think it is.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]