Recent childbirths in Nollywood excite me – Allwell Ademola
Olajide Samuel

Talented plus-size actress, Allwell Ademola, couldn’t contain her joy when she shared a video of herself on Instagram rejoicing over the recent childbirths in Nollywood.

Nollywood stars such as Toyin Abraham, Ronke Odusanya, Tunde Owokoniran and Ruth Kadiri were blessed with new babies in August.

Explaining what prompted her video, Ademola told Saturday Beats, “I feel good about the childbirths in Nollywood. I am happy for my colleagues. Next year, we will be celebrating a lot of birthdays for these babies. I am excited that most of those babies were born in August; my birth month. I feel good.”

Contrary to what many may think, the actress insisted that being a plus–size actress gets her movie roles. She said, “My size gets me roles and that is the truth. We all cannot be small sizes. Variety, they say, is the spice of life. If we are all slim, who will play the plus-size roles? My size gets me good roles.”

The actress also stated that her size inspired her decision to start a clothing line. “Most plus-size ladies find it difficult to get what suits them. I decided to make designs that suit me, knowing that when plus -size ladies see the designs on me, they will be persuaded to patronise me; and I will also be answering a lot of prayers. After I started, people advised that we shouldn’t just do plus-sizes; we should do regular sizes,” she said.

On what drives her, Allwell said it is God. She added, “God is my driving force. I am a naturally restless person, despite my size. I love to be active at all times. With the talent God has given me, I feel I should be able to do more. To whom much is given, much is expected. I’m an actress, and also a singer. I love fashion too, so I decided to become an entrepreneur.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]