I criticised Tekno’s video for promoting indecency –Belinda Effah
Olajide Samuel

Belinda Effah is one actress who has been consistent as far as the world of make-believe is concerned.

The award-winning actress who was recently under fire for condemning Tekno’s ‘Lekki strippers saga’, explained to SATURDAY BEATS why she criticised the viral video.

She stated, “Honestly, no one is perfect but we should strive to lead exemplary lives. I saw indecency in the public space and I reacted, not knowing who created the nuisance. I wasn’t attacking anyone but just voicing my disappointment. It’s the same attitude we carry into our everyday life; not caring about the other person. We just do things because we can. I don’t have anything against anyone. But if you could be a little considerate towards other people’s feelings; maybe Nigeria would get better. When we damn all consequences just to prove a point, then who is going to build the nation? I believe that the change we so desire starts with us. It starts with you.”

On whether she is pleased with the way women are portrayed in the entertainment industry, the Royal Arts Academy-trained actress said, “I don’t like the way women are portrayed in the industry but people speak based on what they see or perceive. We, actresses, need to lay good examples. If we want to flaunt our wealth, we should also explain the source of wealth to the fans. If you can’t explain it, then live a humble life. We invite our fans into our lives by the unnecessary display of wealth and relationships, but when things go sour, we expect the fans to stay away from our business. How is that even possible when we are the ones that invited them in? Fans have fangs and they desire blood or nothing. Life is simple, and we should stop making it complicated. There are a lot of decent women in Nollywood but they are not spotlighted because they are modest. The bad eggs are usually used to generalise Nollywood women. If I do something good, no one speaks about it, but if I do something bad, that’s the one everyone gets to know. Let’s give the good Nollywood women some credit too.”

Effah also said she was usually not bothered when she was attacked online. She stated, “As an actress, I know that not everyone likes me and they would hide under whatever guise to try to badmouth me. I take trolls with a pinch of salt. I know myself and I know I mean well. People may not see it but I don’t have to explain myself to no one. Eventually, people will conform when they understand you.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]