Alex Ekubo has apologised to me –Ubi Franklin
Dayo Adeola

Record label boss, Ubi Franklin, and actor, Alex Ekubo, were involved in an online spat during the week over a post by the latter. Ubi had written, “Stop allowing motivational speakers to drive you into a place of delusion and intense confusion. Not everyone will be an entrepreneur.” Shortly after the post, Ekubo made a comment, saying, “Ubi, you are the pilot of the flight. Awon inspire to desire, to perspire.”

Ubi apparently didn’t find Ekubo’s comment funny as he made another post, which read, “Alex, next time, read carefully before you comment. I meant not everyone will be an entrepreneur. If you don’t understand my message, please pass.”

The back and forth indicated that a feud was brewing between the two and many followers were eager to see where it would end. However, Ubi told SATURDAY BEATS that the issue had been resolved.

He said, “He (Ekubo) was only joking, but I didn’t get the joke. He has already sent a message to apologise. It really wasn’t that serious. Whenever I go for speaking engagements, I always let people know that entrepreneurship is not easy. Because we don’t post our failures online doesn’t mean that a lot of us don’t fail. So, for me, I didn’t get his joke but he has already sent me a message, and I don’t have any issue with him. When you have a friend that you see all the time and things like that come from him, you would expect him to have called you and you both would discuss it. I honestly didn’t know it was a joke until he sent me a message that he regretted doing that. Before we knew it, everybody had already seen the post, but he had already apologised, so it is really not an issue.”

Ubi, who is fond of posting motivational quotes on his Instagram page, also hinted that he might publish a book in the future. He stated, “I have a book or two that I want to write but I have really not got things in place. Though there are a lot of things I would love to write about, I feel my life is still evolving. I think I should evolve a lot more before I start anything. But I would write a book when God says it’s the right time.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]