I’ve cried many times for my career –Tim Godfrey
Olajide Samuel

Gospel artiste, Tim Godfrey, has a lot of reasons to be grateful. The CEO of Rox Nation Empire known for his charismatic style of music said there was a time he was depressed because his efforts were not yielding fruits.

The Nara singer told Sunday Scoop, “People sort of discouraged me but I wouldn’t say I wanted to give up. Sometimes, I stayed by myself and cried. Sometimes, I was frustrated and depressed but I never wanted to give up on my dreams. For about four years, I battled with depression, but giving up wasn’t an option. I kept pushing and believing God that one day, He was going to come through for me. Hunters get their meals immediately, but for farmers, it takes a while. When you check the harvest, it is always different. God took me through the drill of being a farmer. I would sow seeds, water it and protect it from enemies until it germinates for harvest. It was a gradual process and I thank God for giving me the patience to stay true.”

Tim, who will be turning 40 tomorrow (Monday), also shared some lessons he has learnt over the years. “The lessons are very obvious— stay humble, stay simple and wait for your time. People at this point would say Tim Godfrey just came from nowhere but nothing can be farther from the reality. I have been a music director for 26 years and an artiste for 16 years. A lot of people didn’t notice the first phase of my life when things were a bit crazy. People don’t understand the story, they just see the glory. So, for the young ones out there, I would encourage them to take big steps because there is always grace available. For me, it has been God from day one till now. I am even shocked that I am turning 40. It seems just like yesterday that I was 20 years old, and now I am 40. God has helped me through a lot of ups and downs. He has been so faithful till date,” he stated.

Reeling out plans for his birthday celebration, Godfrey added, “There will be four days to celebrate. Each day represents each of the decades of my life. There would be a thanksgiving concert, a novelty match, a series of giveaways for fans, and a private dinner for the launch of the Tim Godfrey Foundation.”

Asked some of the common mistakes made by gospel artistes, the Imela singer said, “It is not in my place to say whether they make mistakes or not. I have had my own fair share of mistakes, and that is the one I know. I think everyone has a unique journey. However, over the years, I have learnt about the right time to release songs, how to comport myself on stage when ministering, and other things. I am not afraid of making mistakes, because mistakes are part of life. There is no successful person that didn’t make a thousand and one errors.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]