I didn’t bleach, my skin has adapted to comfort— Frederick Leonard
Actor, Frederick Leonard, shares his experience in the film industry with KORE OGIDAN

What made your childhood interesting?

Growing up under very traditional African parents made growing up for me very exciting. My parents knew the value and the true essence of bringing a child up properly. As a kid, it seemed like they were strict but in hindsight, I know I was blessed to have the kind of parents I had. Aside from their discipline in ensuring I grew upright, it was also fun because we had the amusement park in Apapa, Lagos, and the National Arts Theatre, Iganmu, Lagos, was still very functional. I had fun times. Growing up was a blend of all that should make the upbringing of a child quite beautiful.

You studied Biochemistry at the university. Why did you choose to be an actor after bagging your degree?

While in school, I knew I was cut out for the arts. However, my mother wanted me in the sciences. I got my degree to make her happy and I’m glad I did that early in life; so I could pursue my own interest and make myself happy. Back then, what were termed ‘professional courses’ were taken seriously and it was believed that they made one successful. The dynamics have changed now. For me, it wasn’t about the said dynamics, it was always about pursuing my happiness because tomorrow isn’t guaranteed. The art makes me happy. I get paid to play, enjoy myself and live my dream. I get paid to be happy and I have job satisfaction being an actor. Some people earn huge pays but they don’t live. I do.

Did your parents support you when you embarked on this journey?

Luckily, my parents are liberal. What was important to them was me succeeding in whatever career I chose to pursue. They knew I had what it took to be an actor but they didn’t know what it’d require for me to get into the industry. They encouraged me to take the job seriously and learn while at it; applying the same enthusiasm I put in other things to make it work. I don’t come from a home where you’d be discouraged from chasing your passion. I was allowed to make my choices under the condition that I would be successful at it.

Tell us about your journey getting into the movie industry.

It wasn’t my birthright, so typically, it was rather rough in the beginning. It wasn’t handed to me on a silver platter. I had to struggle with being skilled and qualified enough to be a part of the practice. I also struggled with acceptance because people would wonder who one is when they see a new and unfamiliar face on their screens. I had to introduce myself and I did so the best way possible- through the performance of my craft. I attended auditions and got rejected for some. The others which I was approved for got me to where I am today. With consistency and diligence, the ‘unsmooth’ journey paid off.

What is the difference between acting in Nollywood and the Asaba film industry?

There is nothing like Asaba film industry and Nollywood. I refute that argument. I see people who try to separate the two as ingrates. You don’t correct anything by segregation– and this is why Nigeria isn’t moving forward. The leaders we have today have implanted the virus of segregation and tribalism in our midst. It’s the same thing that’s happening in Nollywood. I don’t think there is an Asaba film industry and I don’t think there is a Lagos film industry. What you call Asaba film industry started in 1992 and it birthed the ones we have today. Young producers took a chance with Nollywood and tried to put their movies on VHS in 1992/1993. This step produced the movie industry we have today. If they didn’t take that chance, it wouldn’t have ignited the passion and thirst to be a part of the industry. Now they’ve come in and you feel they aren’t doing it quite well. Instead of seeing how they can work with them, they are standing aside and criticising the industry. Many actors would have gone into other businesses if these producers never started the ‘Asaba’ film industry. Sometimes, they could be adamant with how they do things but segregation is not taking us anywhere at all. Art is art. It is unintelligent for anyone to say Asaba Nollywood is different from Lagos Nollywood. As a matter of fact, I think the Eastern actors are more talented than Lagos actors. Lagos actors only speak English with an accent while the Eastern actors are more grounded and traditional because we are Africans. It would make a beautiful blend if you had the rawness from the East and the finesse from the west and south.

How does being in the spotlight affect you?

I don’t think I’m better than anyone else, and that may have something to do with my upbringing. I see people come around me and when they want to treat me specially, I try to make them understand that I’m just like everyone else and there’s no need to treat me differently. Many of my fans are even richer and more intelligent than I am.

As a matter of fact, stardom has humbled me. The way people appreciate me has made me treat people better. I probably wouldn’t have been this cultured if I wasn’t a star.

How would you then react to those who believe you are arrogant?

This is the first time I’m hearing that I’m arrogant. People had a few things to say about Jesus when He was here on earth, so it’s normal for people to have their opinions of me. It comes with the job.

How much do you think the government has been able to impact the growth of the Nigerian film industry?

I wouldn’t say I know how much because I’m not political and I don’t enjoy talking about politics. I know that a couple of people who started this process had a good relationship with the past administration. I heard money was given to certain individuals. This is one of the issues we are having in the industry. We don’t need individuals getting money from the government to produce films. Individuals are already sourcing funds for themselves. What we need from the government is a sure return on investment. They should also encourage the industry. I think they have come into the cinema business by taxing us but the tax rates are quite high. The government can tax us but they should cut down on it because the industry is still in its infant stage. We also don’t have a film village and it’s sad that we still film in peoples’ houses. We also have other challenges such as noise pollution. There are budding filmmakers who want to make a difference but we don’t have enough training institutes. These are the forms of help we need from the government.

You’re on the list of most eligible bachelors in Nollywood. Should we be expecting wedding bells soon?

Firstly, I find the list very offensive. There is no timing to this and I see the fictitious claim that I’m above 40 years of age when I’m not even up to 40. Times are changing and the change in our family institution is doing us more harm than good. I am being more careful, and because I’m a role model to many, I don’t want to have kids with different women. I have no reservations about those who have done it. I am just saying that I have patterned my life; I’m taking my time to find a woman who sees life from my point of view. It’s important for me to find someone I’m compatible with. I’m not looking for love at this point in my life because I find it’s overrated. It is a by-product of compatibility and other factors.

Many believe you lightened your skin to be more appealing for the camera. Is this true?

Whoever came up with that should look at other people, not just celebrities. When I started out in the industry, I used various means of public transportation but I don’t do that anymore. Back then, I was burnt and scorched by the sun. I live more comfortably now and I travel often. Naturally, my skin has changed to adapt to the comfort it’s experiencing now. I find it unintelligent for anyone to say I bleached.

Tell us about your educational background.

For my elementary education, I attended St Peter’s Anglican Primary School, Alausa, Ikeja. I attended Oregun High School, Oregun, Ikeja, for my secondary education. They are both in Lagos State. I graduated with a degree in Biochemistry from the Kaduna State Polytechnic, Kaduna State.

Interestingly, after graduation, I didn’t make use of my degree for work. I went straight into the arts.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]