Being with a record label saves me from depression –Joel Amadi
Dayo Adeola

Though a lot of artistes, these days, prefer to be independent instead of being signed to a record label, Kennis Music signee, Joel Amadi, thinks otherwise.

Listing the benefits he enjoys being signed to a label, Amadi told SATURDAY BEATS, “The advantage I have, being under a record label, is that I don’t think there is anything this industry would bring that I wouldn’t be able to face. Frustration is out of it, and depression is also cancelled because I have been through a lot. At a point, I thought I was going to die, as things weren’t working anymore. But right now, I think I am competent enough to face any challenge life throws at me.”

Disputing the notion that record labels don’t promote artistes as much as they should, the Hold On singer said, “Record labels are promoting people. I just shot a video for my single, and Kenny Ogungbe foot the bill. I didn’t pay a dime for it. Don Jazzy also signed some artistes and he is promoting them. I just feel a lot of artistes don’t want to be controlled. They feel that being with a record label is like being in prison. At the end of the day, it all depends on the individual. I have seen an artiste spend over N30m, yet his neighbours don’t even know his songs. It depends on one’s destiny.”

Amadi also maintained that being independent doesn’t guarantee success for an artiste . “It all depends on the individual. If you have what it takes to be independent then why not? However, being independent without experience is dangerous. As an artiste , if you have N50m to spend in the entertainment industry but lack the proper experience, you wouldn’t put the money to good use. It is important to have people who would put you through and guide you. There are so many things in the entertainment industry beyond having money and being talented. One needs to be disciplined and have the right orientation.”

The singer also stated that he decided to take a break from his music career for a reason. He added, I have been working with Masterkraft. Though I have resumed now, I decided to take a break because I needed to ‘switch up’ my kind of music. I think the idea of giving people inspirational music back-to-back is not in vogue right now. People are already stressed because of the situation of the country, so they need music which makes them feel alive in a groovy way.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]