My greatest fear is losing my voice –Caddy Tunes
Olajide Samuel

Singer, Babatunde Raji, aka Caddy Tunes, says his greatest fear is waking up one day and finding out that he has lost his voice. He told SATURDAY BEATS, “Losing my voice, losing the love of my fans, running out of inspiration to do great music, and being tone-deaf are my greatest fears.”

Speaking on the inspiration behind his latest single, Cancel Poverty, the singer said, “My inspiration comes from every angle, at any time and any season. On a particular day, I was having a meeting with my record label boss when I heard the beat. Immediately, I started humming a chorus to go along with it. I then got the beat from the producer, wrote the verses and the rest, as they say, is history.”

Caddy Tunes, who went on a musical hibernation for two years, said, “I always say that it’s not just about ‘dropping’ songs every now and then. I have well over 2,000 songs already written. For me, it’s more about structure and timing. I like getting quality results; so yes, this is the time to bring the heat.”

The Fatasi crooner also said that being signed to his current record label, High Prince Records, is one of the best things that has happened to his career. He stated, “I am currently signed to an international label called, High Prince Records, owned by my amiable boss, Prince Abayomi Balogun, aka Daddy Vic. The record label has been my home ever since I came on board. It has been more than a blessing working side by side with my boss who I regard as a brother, friend, and mentor.”

On what he had that no other artiste had, Caddy Tunes said, “I believe that no one is really that special; it’s all about grace. However, I would say that I’m a core vocalist with a four-octave pitch-perfect voice, a vocal coach, songwriter, lover of life, and child of God.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]