In China, live theatre excites African journalists
Olusola Fabiyi, China

For the visiting journalists from some African countries including Nigeria to China, evening of Sunday, August 18 was a day to remember.

Earlier, the journalists had visited the Qingdao International Convention Centre, which was built for the 2008 Beijing Olympics.

At the centre, journalists were taken round the many edifices and were astonished that 11-year-old buildings could be maintained to the point of making them so clean as if they were awaiting commissioning.

Newly-wedded couples found the serene of the beach alluring for rides on the many boats that floated on it. Unlike what obtains in majority of African countries as explained by the visiting journalists, couples were seen with a few guests as they took pictures at the bank of the beach. Others who have courage, however found the nose of the floating boats a spectacular place to have their memorable pictures.

From there, journalists, led by their guide Jasmine Yang, moved to a restaurant where Chinese delicacies were ready and later served.

Thereafter, the driver drove the team to No.6, Renmin Road. Welcome to Quigdao Performing Arts Group where lovers of live theatre are entertained.

Though the St. Fang Theatre Hall was still locked when the art patrons started arriving, soon, its doors were flung opened. One after the other, guests who were armed with their tickets having purchased them some from the box office and others online, were ushered into the well-decorated and acoustically-fitted hall.

At exactly 7:10pm, the bell sounded. This heralded the announcement in Chinese language that an event was about to take place.

The seated guests listened attentively. The auditorium, which was full to capacity and decorated in wine red, the traditional colour of the Chinese people, was brightened.

Five minutes later, another sound of drum like the Elizabethan period sounded. Slowly, the tempo of the drum reduced. Guests clapped as the artists began an opera titled “The Unicorn Purse.”

Set in the days of the yore, the drama was about a rich and a poor girl. They were both to get married. The poor girl had no money while the rich had so much money and therefore her wedding was flamboyant.

But as fate would have it, circumstance brought the two girls together in an unusual manner. Having heard about the background of the poor girl, the rich

lady showed companionship by giving the girl a lot of ornaments and money. That helps her to get married.

“Though a simple plot, but it teaches societal value. It teaches us not to be greedy, share what you have with your neighbour and be considerate,” says Elizabeth Mengistu from Ethiopia.

Yar Peter Machar from South-Sudan agreed. To her, though the play was delivered in Chinese Language, she nevertheless praised the acting acumen of the artists, saying the ease with which the lines were delivered was awesome.

She said, “You could see the excitement of the audience. See the voices of the artistes dominating the entire auditorium despite its size and all that. The costume was specially made to suit the purpose and time of the setting of the play.

“I was also surprised that the play could attract such a large audience. I think we should learn from it that apart from creating time for leisure, we should also pay attention to our culture and languages. These are very important and they are part of the many take aways I have learnt from this trip.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]