I don’t sell my books – Chioma Okonkwo
Chux Ohai

Author Chioma Okonkwo’s novel, a romance thriller set in France and titled Like Never Before, was the subject of a book reading organised by the Committee for Relevant Art as part of the build-up to the 2019 edition of its annual and celebrated cultural event, the Lagos Book and Art Festival.

Some of the guests at the reading event, held inside the Quintessence Gallery and Art Store in Ikoyi, Lagos, were, perhaps, driven by sheer curiosity to meet the young female guest writer reputed to have written and published eight novels, six novellas and six short stories online within a period of nine years.

Okonkwo is not only prolific, as the guests would learn in the course of the event, her writing cuts across different genres. Although her book, Like Never Before was published a few months ago, the author has since written three other books, which she describes as murder mysteries, a genre that is relatively unknown to readers on this side of the globe.

The novel, Like Never Before, tells the story of a Nigerian woman and a British actor who meet in the French city of Nice and eventually fall in love during a boat tour of the Mediterranean Sea. Their relationship blossoms and several months later, looks set to evolve into a lasting union.

In spite of the absence of the right structures necessary for a worthwhile career in writing in Nigeria, Okonkwo, who read from the novel to the gathering, sees herself writing full-time in the nearest future and living well on her books.

“I can see myself doing that in five years. I have been studying the publishing industry in Nigeria for some time now and I can say that things are gradually getting better for both authors and publishers,” she says, in an interview with our correspondent.

She also advised aspiring Nigerian writers to decide what goals to pursue before rushing into the complicating business of writing and publishing, so as to avoid getting disappointed in the end.

She says, “Some people write primarily to make money out of it and that is very tough in our economy right now. But this is not peculiar to the Nigerian economy. I think it is happening all over the world.

“But traditional publishers cannot cater to too many authors. They will have a few and all the other authors will opt for self-publishing, which is the only way for them. And they are making money out of it.

“We are in a world where you spend money to make money. I joined a literary group online and I saw what people were doing. For instance, some of them were spending as much as $5,000 on marketing and they were getting their returns back. When you don’t have that kind of money to invest in marketing, you might not get any returns.”

Interestingly Okonkwo claims she has been earning money from her writing. “I give out my books to members of the public free-of-charge. My writing goal is actually to get my books out there. I want people to know me as an author. This is why I write and give out for free.

“Besides, other people are doing this. If you visit some social media platforms, you will see a lot of free e-books on display. At a point in time, all my short stories were available online free-of-charge. People used to complain that if you put all your books online for free you won’t be giving other authors a chance to sell their books.

“People like free stuff. So if you visit a platform online and you see 10 books, it is very likely that nine of them is free and one is for sale. All the readers will go for the free ones. After a while, I started fixing minor prices on my books. Then I started doing promos and give-aways just to get people to read my books,” she says.

Unlike the average author who often complains that most Nigerians hardly read books, Okonkwo believes that the perpetually rising cost of books is the real problem. “I think many Nigerians read. The only problem is that they cannot afford the cost of books. I attended a book fair once and sold some of my books there at a discounted price. Other people sold their books at prices that were about four times higher than mine. Some students came in and when they saw that some books were being sold at N4,000 and N5,000, they walked away to look for what they could afford,” she says.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]