Tboss, Broda Shaggi, others disagree on arrest of ladies who ‘pranked’ Davido
Mobola Sadiq

Few days ago, singer, Davido, caused mixed reactions after the arrest of two ladies, Helen and Susan, who had claimed that the star impregnated one of them.

Some supported the singer for apprehending the girls, while others condemned the action of putting them in handcuffs.

A former Big Brother Naija contestant, TBoss, made a video in which she stated that Davido was wrong for putting handcuffs on the girls and parading them on social media. This is even as online comedian, Broda Shaggi, noted that the girls brought whatever happened to them on themselves by lying against the father of three.

Other social media users also shared different opinions. @nwa_anambra wrote; “These ladies didn’t sue Davido for ‘impregnating’ them and abandoning the child. Rather, they came to SM to ‘parade’ Davido. When he arrested and paraded them on SM, people like @ogundamisi and @UdyAsuquo are saying @iam_Davido broke the law. I laugh, if na me ehn…”

@BashorunKunle wrote, “No private citizen(civilian) has the right to make an arrest. Police are by law allowed to make arrests. He (Davido) should have reported to the police to do their job instead of subjecting the poor ladies to ridicule. Truly, the ladies ‘misyarn’, but Davido’s response is inhuman.”

@jurist_oriko salos wrote, “He shouldn’t release them since he has money to waste. Fundamental rights enforcement coming soon. The ladies were wrong but not criminal. Imagine Buhari doing this; can you now see that some of your celebrities are hypocrites #Davido.”

@IsuphJt had a different opinion, writing, “Please don’t waste your time with those lot. Davido posted a video where he took those girls swimming. Meaning, they all planned to prank the rest of us. It’s fine. I’ve washed my hands off such cases. Anytime it pops into my sights, I’d walk away. Some ‘do-nothings’ won’t waste my empathies.”

@steveosaz wrote, “That was a major low for that Davido guy. I still remember how he openly disrespected Dele Momodu– it was a complete show of shame. Though, no love for Buhari and his supporters. They are equally as bad if not worse than the Davido they are dragging.”

@sama_on_point wrote, “Two wrongs don’t make a right. The ladies erred by falsely accusing you. File a defamation suit against them. Those ladies were illegally detained against their will. They were handcuffed. Borders on kidnap. Dude threatened to slap them for not looking at the camera! Tyrants!”

Meanwhile, Davido later revealed that the ladies had been released and were having fun with their lives.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]