Fanfare as culture shines at Ojude Oba
Tunji Bosun

The 2019 celebration of the Ojude-Oba festival like previous ones was filled with grand colour and a robust display of the rich culture in Nigeria.

Ojude-Oba, ,a popular Yoruba festival which takes place in Ijebu-Ode, a town in Ogun State, received several dignitaries from different parts of the country who gathered to celebrate African culture.

Traditionally, Ojude-Oba is held annually at every third day after the Eid-el-Kabir, as an age-old tradition of Ijebu indigenes in honour of the Awujale and Paramount ruler of Ijebuland, Oba Sikiru Adetona .

Ojude-Oba, hitherto a small gathering of adherents of Islam, has become a big cultural affair. Activities during this year’s edtion of the festival reinforced the fact that the event had transcended religious lines by attractng people different faiths including tourists from within and outside Nigeria.

Historians documented that the festival started over 100 years ago when the earliest Muslim converts in Ijebu-Ode paid homage to the Awujale of Ijebuland to thank him for granting them freedom to practise their religion.

The rich cultural heritage of Ijebu-Ode was on display last Tuesday as people in the community trooped out in stylish attire and resplendent colours to celebrate this year’s festival.

Our correspondent observed that for several hours, Ijebu-Ode was lively. Guests from far and near joined the monarch to celebrate the festival.

The town was literally shut down as residents moved to the pavilion of the Awujale to behold a cultural spectacle and be part of the abundant fun usually experienced during the festival.

At the pavilion named after the Awujale, there were rhythmic drumming, singing, trumpeting and breathtaking dances by cultural dancers who thrilled the spectators.

It was all glamour as 25,000 partcipants that included residents, friends, well-wishers and tourists participated in the event. Different age grades otherwise called regberegbes comprising males and female tried to outsmart one another.

Participants had enough of beautiful treats from glamorously-dressed regberegbe groups who thrilled the gathering with dances and songs.

The Balogun families as usual rode horses to the arena, strutting to drums and ceremonial gunshots.

The Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, who arrived the venue few minutes after the event started sprang a surprise when he came in company with a prominent masquerader known as Danofunjora.

Danofunjora, one of Oyo’s most prominent masqueraders, thrilled guests at the festival with a mind-blowing performance by being set on fire yet wasn’t burnt.

Dasofunjora was invited to perform at this year’s festival by the Alaafin of Oyo to pay homage to the Awujale, Oba Sikiru Adetona, as the longest serving paramount ruler of Ijebuland.

The Alaafin in his remarks said it was the culture of Dasofunjora, a deity and a respected masquerade in Oyo State, to perform and pay homage to kings ruling for long periods of years.

Oba Adetona, surrounded by the state governor, Dapo Abiodun and other eminent personalities from several parts of the country, assured of the festival’s continuity.

The Awujale, in his goodwill message, appreciated those who supported the festival especially the sponsors such as the Founder of First City Monument Bank Group, who is also the Olori Omo-Oba Akile Ijebu, Otunba (Dr) Olasubomi Balogun, among others .

Each group was called to the platform to salute the Awujale of Ijebuland after first dancing round and thrilling the gathering with songs.

Musiliu Haruna Ishola, son of legendary apala singer, Haruna Ishola, who hailed from Ijebu Igbo, is the official musician for the festival.

Among the Balogun families who featured at this year’s festival are the Kuku Family, Odunuga Family and the Balogun Alausa. The event also featured prize awards to the best performing groups.

For the male category of regberegbe cultural display and payment of homage to the monarch, the Bobamayegun Okunrin Asiwaju was declared the best and Ana ward was presented to the representative by Governor Abiodun.

Bobamayegun Okunrin came second and its prize was presented by a former governor of Ogun State, Chief Segun Osoba, while Tobalase Okunrin got the third prize and was presented by another ex- governor of Ogun State, Gbenga Daniel.

For the female category, Bobamayegun Obinrin Aremo came first and the award was presented by the state Deputy Governor, Noimot Salako-Oyedele. Jagunmolu Obinrin Original came second and received an award from the governor’s wife, Bamidele Abiodun.

The third prize went to Jagunmolu Obinrin stainless and the prize was presented by wife of a businessman in Ijebu, Fatimo Adegunwa.

On horse ride, Balogun Odunuga stole the show this year as it came first while Balogun Soye and Balogun Alausa came second and third respectively.

In a goodwill message to the Awujale of Ijebuland, Balogun expressed gratitude to the paramount ruler for his selflessness.

According to Balogun, the Awujale has demostrated distinguished and exemplary leadership as the paramount ruler of Ijebuland.

In the message delivered on his behalf by the Group Head, Corporate Affairs of the Bank, Mr. Diran Olojo, Balogun said, “As your children and subjects, the period provides us the platform and the opportunity to pay you homage in demonstration of our affection for a very special and exceptional father.

“As our paramount ruler who has continued to endear himself to us, his people and who by divine grace, renews his strength annually, in unison, all Ijebus say, “Kabiyesi k’ade pe l’ori, Ki bata pe l’ese.

“We pray your reign will continue to bring joy, inspire prosperity and engender togetherness in abundance to all of us, your children, the entire Ijebu race, at home and in the Diaspora.

“Being the Olori Ebi (the head of the family, by the grace of Almighty God), and as your Olori Omo-Oba (the head of princes and princesses), I will continue to lead the way in showing our appreciation to you.

“As you extend yourself to our people’s different requests and yearnings, I wish to reiterate that the annual paying of homage should not be the only occasion we should show our appreciation. This is because you have consistently earned our affection and our adulation, Kabiyesi.’’

In the same vein, the Group Chief Executive of FCMB Group Plc, Mr Ladi Balogun, congratulated the monarch for upholding the values of Ijebuland and raising the status of the event over the years.

He stated, ‘’The Ojude Oba Festival is a rallying point to promote the sustainable growth and development of our community. We recognise that celebrating our heritage is an important part of our national identity, a means of educating visitors and future generations about our history and an opportunity to measure our growth, development and sustainability. Hence, for us at FCMB, the Ojude Oba Festival is a pride to us; being a major platform through which we reaffirm our commitment to the community and promote our nation’s cultural diversity.

“We will continue to support all activities of the state with focus on the economic and social development. We are committed to the longevity of the Ojude Oba Festival and are proud to be associated with its grandeur.’

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]