Social media helping artistes to enlarge fan base – Tosin Music
Singer, Tosin Oguntayo, aka Tosin Music, has said with the advent of social media, musicians can now enlarge their fan base and get their music across to more people across the globe at a faster pace.

In a chat with SUNDAY SCOOP, he said, “I started my career professionally as a guitarist in 2015 working with different artistes including Aramide and Ayoola. Then, I evolved into writing songs and performing at stage plays across Nigeria and Africa. When an artiste is starting out, one would usually have to do everything from paying for studio sessions and making graphics designs, to managing oneself to cut costs. However, social media has been a viable tool in connecting with fans and distributing my music at a faster pace. Now, I can easily connect with fans in America, Europe and other parts of the world without going through middlemen and paying through my nose.

“There is no doubt that the Internet has completely changed the landscape for artistes, and made it easier to distribute our music through platforms such as Instagram, Facebook, among others.”

Speaking on the inspiration behind his latest single, Binti Laye, Tosin Music said it was motivated by happenings in his environment and life itself. He added, “Binti Laye is a Yoruba phrase which literally means that life is vanity and one shouldn’t take it too seriously. It is a feel good song that aims to reduce anxiety and worry, getting people to stay calm and watch life unwrap its goodness.

“I like my music to touch all areas of human existence, such as love, family, and other relationships. However, I try to be versatile, so I cannot be put in a box. My sound is a blend of guitars and electronic sound garnished with Yoruba and English lyrics.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]