Many misuse social media –Mary Lazarus
Olajide Samuel

Screen diva, Mary Lazarus, has said many people in Nigeria misuse social media.

The Abia State-born actress also described social media as a powerful tool that could make or break one.

She said, “It is simple. The social media is a powerful tool that can make or break one and that is what I tried to portray in my movie, Social Media 101. I hope I was able to achieve that, but I will have to wait to find out from the reaction of the audience when it’s released in the cinemas next month.”

Speaking on what influenced the movie, Lazarus stated, “As a Nigerian filmmaker, inspiration is all round me. But the truth is that my love for movie-making and acting drove me to create Social Media 101. I love to make movies people can relate with. I felt a strong need to pass a message across to my audience about the power of social media. Social media has been misused by many people in the country and abroad. This is the only way I can educate people on the issue.”

The University of Ibadan graduate also lamented that the challenges of movie-making in the country outweighed the benefits. She added, “Piracy, (lack of) distribution (channels) and absence of investors are some of the challenges we encounter. The hiccups of making movies in Nigeria are more than the benefits, and that is because the industry is still developing.

“As independent filmmakers, we have to make the best out of the limited resources we have. We practically have to provide everything on our own to make things work. The pain of shooting movies in residential homes without constant power supply can be frustrating and that is because we have to contend with terrible audio output. If we decide to shoot outdoors, we would have to deal with thugs and onlookers. I wish the government could help tackle some of these challenges, so that things can be easier for us. The profession can be rewarding sometimes because of the international recognition we get, but much still needs to be done.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]