Celebs commend Adeniyi Johnson for greeting Toyin Abraham
Kore Ogidan and Dayo Adelola

Actor, Adeniyi Johnson, was commended by many during the week for what they termed his mature act. Johnson had congratulated his former wife, Toyin Abraham and her new partner, Kolawole Ajeyemi, on the birth of their baby. He put up a picture of the couple and wrote on his Instagram page, “Congrats on the arrival of your baby, Mr. and Mrs. Ajeyemi. He shall be a source of joy to you. God bless the baby, the mother and the dad.”

Seemingly impressed by his action, many celebrities, including Iyabo Ojo, Mercy Aigbe, Yinka Quadri, among others, praised him and commended his kind message to the couple.

Yinka Quadri, through his Instagram page @realyinkaquadri, wrote, “One love keep us together,” while actress and producer, @yetundebakare wrote, “God bless you ‘brotherly’. May God perfect everything that concerns you too.”

Mide Martins wrote, “You are more than loved my brother. May God almighty continue to bless your home,” and a former president of the Actors’ Guild of Nigeria, Ibinabo Fiberesima added, “God bless you son.”

Singer, Jaywon, also stated, “You are more than loved my brother. May God almighty continue to bless your home!”

Comedian, @mr_hyenana wrote, “This one will just be displaying wisdom anyhow. Niyi, you will never see shame my guy”.

Other celebs that commented were Dayo Amusa, Muyiwa Ademola, Yewande Adekoya-Abiodun, Tayo Odueke (Sikirat Sindodo).

Recall that news had gone viral during the week that Abraham had got married to fellow actor, Ajeyemi. This was accompanied by pictures of the couple in matching native attire, a baby shower, and Toyin on a hospital bed with a newborn baby. However, in an interview with THE PUNCH, Abraham’s manager, Samuel Olatunji, had said the couple were only engaged, and not married.

Johnson and Abraham got married in 2013, but called it quits with the union in 2015.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]