I can’t wait to see Liverpool win EPL – Blackface
Musician Ahmedu Augustine Obiabo, popularly known as Blackface, tells Ebenezer Bajela about his sports passion

Where did you grow up?

I was born in Obalende, Lagos and that’s where I grew up.

Did you join the set of boys playing football there?

Yes, every kid does that. It was something that we enjoyed because it was a normal thing for us to do and I grew up liking the sport.

Were you ever punished for playing football?

No. My parents never punished me for playing football unlike other parents; I had their full support because it is a normal thing in Benue State where they come from. Everybody plays football there and it’s just a way of life. There are times you’ve got to get serious and there are also times that you also get to play. I am a big fan of sports generally and not just football. I was engaged in various sports like table tennis, handball, volleyball, tennis and basketball.

Why then did you pick music ahead of sports?

A lot of people that do sports are also involved in music. If you check, you will see that most of them want to do music because football and sports are both rhythm. That is why footballers love music, they love to dance, and they want to add music to the colour of the game. Many sportspeople are supposed to be singers while many singers are supposed to be athletes. Why do footballers celebrate by dancing when they score? It’s because sports is all about music and rhythm. Where do you think the Brazilian Samba got their name and celebrations from? It’s all about the movement.

Do you still play football?

I do if I want to, and I follow football a lot. I’m a big Liverpool fan.

Who is your favourite Liverpool player?

I don’t have any particular favourite player, I only love the team.

Liverpool lost the Community Shield to Manchester City. How does that make you feel?

I didn’t watch the match but I really didn’t care because Liverpool didnt take the Community Shield seriously. If they had, the manager would have played Sadio Mane alongside Mohamed Salah. But it was just like a friendly game and more of a preparation match ahead of the new season. Come to think of it, the game ended with penalties. I believe it was a great game because we were able to stand them toe-to-toe, so let’s watch out for the new season.

Did you expect Liverpool’s comeback win against Barcelona in the UCL semi-final last season?

Of course. Roma did it to them after they won the first leg 4-1 at Camp Nou but ended up losing 3-0 in Rome. If Roma can beat them, then why can’t Liverpool do the same? I was very full of confidence that Liverpool were going to beat them. It is simple mathematics.

Do you see Liverpool winning the UEFA champions league again this season?

I really can’t say but I don’t think that is Liverpool’s target this season. The EPL title is the main target; no one is worried about the Champions League at the moment. We need to show that we are the kings of England.

Liverpool haven’t won the EPL title

(Cuts in) Well, you are right but when was the last time that Tottenham won the EPL title? You people always attack us when it comes to the EPL. Why are you not talking about our victories but defeats?

Are you putting Liverpool in the same class with Tottenham?

We are all playing the same football, so what has class got to do with it? It’s all about 11 men playing against each other, so there is nothing like class in football. They are all there to win, which means it’s all about preparation.

How conversant are you with the Nigerian Professional Football League?

I watch very little of the Nigerian league because of the restricted access to it. I think they should increase the broadcast and allow many local stations to air the matches, so that people can watch and get used to the players. They should stop the restriction to just having it on cable channels, they should make it available to local stations because basically everyone has access to them and it makes it very easy to watch.

Do you support any local club?

If there is any club I want to support in the league here in Nigeria, it is definitely Lobi Stars.

I am sure you do watch the Super Eagles play…

Sure. Who doesn’t watch Nigeria whenever they play?

And what’s your general assessment of the team?

The truth is it is not easy getting the likes of Austin Okocha and Nwankwo Kanu. Those guys are legends and it won’t be an easy thing finding a replacement because of the qualities which they possessed. The truth is, you don’t replace legends. They have made their mark and proven their qualities both for the national team and their clubs. But we have other guys who are coming up and ready to show that they are good as well and let people see what they can bring into the game. For me, it is only one player that I missed and that is Obafemi Martins, I think he should still be in that team. I don’t know if he is injured but he is very much needed in that national team because I believe he can still go to the World Cup. I don’t see any striker in the national team that can outwit him. He is always a problem for defenders but I don’t know the reason why he has not been part of the team. Ighalo is good, no disrespect to him but I would still have wanted Martins in that team.

Obafemi is 34, do you think he still has the legs to play for the national team?

That’s the thing about Obafemi, nobody has the legs like him. He’s got power and accuracy. Who will you call in this current national team that has the legs like Obafemi? We are always talking about replacing Okocha but even the Martins that is there, that we are supposed to ensure is helping the national team and bring out the best in him, we are already castigating him. We bring in players that are not good enough. Football is in stages, some players can’t handle the big moment. The people that are ready we want to keep them out because of some people. I miss his goals and his somersaulting, but I can only wish him the best.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]