Youths must get involved in politics – Favour Phillip
Kore Ogidan and Dayo Adelola

Budding actress, Favour Phillip, is advocating more youths’ involvement in politics, especially in her native Imo State. Collaborating with other like-minded young women to form a pressure group, Imo Youths Advocacy Group, Phillip said their aim was to get the government to empower and engage youths in governance.

The model and former beauty queen opined that only by participating in politics could youths drive the kind of change they desired. She told SATURDAY BEATS, “The role of youths in the development of a nation is important and cannot be overemphasised. It is a welcome development to see youths emerging as speakers of some state Houses of Assembly in Nigeria. It shows that the youths are starting to take their rightful place in governance and hopefully, this trend will be sustained.

“Imo State has a new governor, Rt. Hon Emeka Ihedioha, in the saddle, and in the coming months, we will be mobilising youths across the state for a solidarity visit to the state house to congratulate the governor and inform him of the readiness of young people to partner with his government for youths empowerment and engagement, which will help stem youth restiveness across the state, improve internally generated revenue and increase prosperity among the citizens.”

Together with other members of the group, Egelamba Chinedu, Ewuru Amarachi, Adaebube Nnadozie, and Emeribe Oluchi, Philip stated that the government could engage youths in entertainment and other areas of the economy. “It is well known that youths have a lot of energy and this should be channeled in the right direction. There are a lot of talented young people who just need the right platform to showcase what they have and shine. I believe that by doing this, Imo State can project itself into the global reckoning, just like Los Angeles in the US did with a vibrant entertainment industry. We have also started vigorous orientation of youths on the need to get engaged in skill acquisition activities that would make them self-sufficient entrepreneurs. We are also putting everything in place to engage organisations within and outside the country to help train our young ones so that an average Imo youth can create wealth.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]