Miley Cyrus, Liam Hemsworth to separate
Popstar Miley Cyrus and her husband actor Liam Hemsworth have agreed to separate after less than a year of marriage, People magazine has reported.

“Liam and Miley have agreed to separate at this time. Ever-evolving, changing as partners and individuals, they have decided this is what’s best while they both focus on themselves and their careers. They still remain dedicated parents to all of their animals,” a representative for Cyrus was quoted as telling People.

Cyrus’s management team did not immediately reply to AFP requests for confirmation.

People said that rumours of a split between the 26-year-old singer and her Australian husband, who is 29, began a day earlier when Cyrus — who has been ranked as one of the world’s most powerful celebrities — posted a photo of herself on Instagram not wearing a wedding ring.

The couple has had a long and at times stormy relationship.

They met in 2009 while filming the romantic drama “The Last Song.” In 2012 they were engaged but ended the engagement the following year.

In 2016, they have engaged again.

And in December 2018 they married in a private ceremony at their home in Nashville, Tennessee, only a month after losing their California home in a wildfire.

But in an interview for Elle magazine’s current issue, Cyrus said that she didn’t like the idea of being called “wife,” which she said was “confusing.”

She said she did not “fit into a stereotypical wife role” and that she was “very sexually attracted to women.” Cyrus reportedly declared as a young teen that she was “pansexual.”

The daughter of country star Billy Ray Cyrus and of actress/producer Tish Cyrus, Miley has had a huge profile in the entertainment world. She played in the Disney series “Hannah Montana,” repeatedly hosted “Saturday Night Live” and served as a coach on the television singing competition “The Voice.”

She was MTV’s Artist of the Year in 2013 and was selected the same year by Time magazine as a finalist for Person of the Year honours.

Hemsworth — whose brothers Chris and Luke are also actors — has starred in movies including “Isn’t It Romantic” and the “Hunger Games” series.

(AFP)