Writing a book was like therapy to me –Juliet Ibrahim
Tofarati Ige

[email protected]

08068792241 (SMS only)

It is no news that actress, Juliet Ibrahim, has joined the league of authors with the release of her book, A Toast to Life. The book contains accounts of some emotional incidents and Ibrahim said writing it was indeed a sort of therapy. She stated to Sunday Scoop, “It was very therapeutic for me. I honestly didn’t even realise how strong I was until I put together all my experiences in this memoir. I have had experiences that would probably break the average person, but I survived. My gratitude to God is the reason why today, I can give a toast to life.”

Speaking on the inspiration behind the book, Ibrahim added, “The inspiration behind my new book is my life. There are so many experiences I have had and life lessons learned along the way. I would also say the book is a memoir, and it is a deeply personal narrative of my triumph over adversity faced at different stages of my life and my journey to true self-love. By telling my story through this medium, it is my intention to uplift readers, and remind them that despite the many challenges experienced, there truly is always light at the end of the tunnel.”

On what convinced her that she could be a writer, Ibrahim said, “I have always been a writer. Throughout my adult life, it was second-nature to me to document any unique experiences I was facing. A life-threatening accident I had a few years ago that almost took my life prompted me to think deeply about my legacy. If I had died, what would people remember about me? I knew I had unique experiences that I wanted the world to know about and learn from.”

The actress also disagreed with the popular notion that Africans don’t like reading. She added, “I think Africans love to read great stories. If you give them something authentic, they will definitely read it.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]