I don’t have plans to quit music for movies – Daddy Showkey
Demola Olonilua and Dayo Adeola

Popular singer, Daddy Showkey, has said he has no problem with the pace of his singer son’s career. Though he was already a household name at his son’s present age, he said they both had different paths in life and shouldn’t be compared.

He told Saturday Beats, “My child has a lot to do and he is taking it easy, step by step. There is no basis for comparison.”

On whether his son would be able to fill the shoes he (Daddy Showkey) left behind, the Diana singer simply said, “He will do more than I did.”

Showkey, who celebrated his birthday during the week, also set tongues wagging when a picture of veteran actor, Pete Edochie, praying for him surfaced online. Many felt the singer had gone to the actor for prayers. Explaining what actually happened, Showkey said, “I didn’t go to meet Pete Edochie for prayers. We were shooting a film in Enugu and he found out my birthday was on that day, so at the location, he said I should kneel down that he wanted to pray for me because that was the year he gave birth to his first son.”

The singer also revealed that he launched a foundation to celebrate his birthday. He added, “I launched my foundation on my birthday. I also went to renew my mum’s blessing on me and I went to my neighbourhood to see my people. My foundation is about getting homeless children out of the streets, and I am also trying to establish a school strictly for skill acquisition.”

Contrary to insinuations in some quarters that the singer was planning to ditch music for acting, Showkey said the two art forms could be practiced simultaneously. “Why would I quit music, which is my number one passion? I am an entertainer, and movies are part of entertainment. Sometimes, in Nigeria, we try to look for what is not there. When we shoot music videos, don’t we act in them? An actor can be a musician and a musician can also be an actor. There are musicians such as Will Smith, 50 Cent who also act, so why should I limit my tentacles? Didn’t Omotola, Tonto Dikeh, and Segun Arinze do music?”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]