Being married doesn’t make me boring –Junior Pope
Tofarati Ige

[email protected]

08068792241 (SMS only)

Actor, Junior Pope, says his marital vows have not stopped him from living his best life. In a chat with Sunday Scoop, the Wrong Initiation actor stated that he still has a lot of female fans who want to get intimate with him. He said, “Many of them want to be intimate with me. I accept them half-way by bringing them close while still making them understand I’m not that type of guy. Because I’m married doesn’t mean I have to lock myself in the house and be boring. I have to live but I know my boundaries. If you ‘Google’ it, you’ll see the girl who tattooed my name on her boobs. She said that she wanted me badly but she couldn’t have me because I’m married. One must know one’s limit. Because I am a married man, you can’t have me. So, I let many of the girls know this. My wife is also a very understanding lady and God will bless her. God has blessed me with a very understanding wife who knows that women will come but her husband knows his limit.”

Pope also stated that he couldn’t afford to raise his children in Nigeria because of the perilous state of the country. He added, “The country is in a mess. If I start to tell you about Nigeria today, I won’t finish. I had hoped to raise my children in Nigeria, but I may have to leave this country. I have to go to someplace else that is better, with greener pastures and hope for the future generation. I’m considering countries such as Denmark, Canada, USA and even Norway. These are countries that have a laid down plan for the coming generations. Recently, a reverend father was reported to have been killed in Enugu State by suspected herdsmen. There is no safety anywhere and I’m losing hope, though I’m still a patriotic Nigerian. I love this country very much but at some point, one wouldn’t be able to help it anymore.”

The actor maintained that moving out of the country wouldn’t affect his career. He stated, “It will not affect my acting career. Junior Pope is a celebrity as life would have it. I have nothing to prove anymore. I am an award-winning actor, so leaving the country wouldn’t affect anything. I hope to further my acting career outside this country. For a while now, I’ve been going to locations and the scripts I’ve been getting contain the same things. The stories are the same, and there’s nothing new. Leaving this country would even help me to become better. Luckily, we also have social media that makes everyone connected. If I’m on always social media, it would look like I never left.”

Speaking on his current projects, Pope said, “I just finished shooting a movie in Asaba and I came to Enugu to see my parents. I’m currently on a short break but I’ll be resuming work in the second week of August. I’m using the break as an opportunity to spend time with my family. You know, family is everything.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]