Though my father worked at CBN, I wasn’t born with silver spoon –Nse Ikpe Etim
Ademola Olonilua

No doubt, screen goddess, Nse Ikpe Etim, is always graceful whenever she appears on the television, especially when she smiles. Her gracious features, from her natural hair to her flawless skin, would make people believe that she was born with a silver spoon.

However, in a recent interview with Sunday Scoop, the actress mentioned that although her father worked at the Central Bank of Nigeria, it was wrong to assume that she was born with a silver spoon.

She said, “It is rather presumptuous to assume that I was born with a silver spoon because my father worked at the Central Bank of Nigeria. Of course not; I was not born with a silver spoon.

“My father was posted to different parts of Nigeria and the advantages were that we got to see the country, learn new cultures, and pick up new languages though I have forgotten loads of phrases. One of the disadvantages was that I made and lost friends along the line, so either way, we just lived. At the end of the day, we turned out okay.”

The actress who spent the early stages of her childhood in the north condemned the recent killings in that part of Nigeria as she reminisced with Sunday Scoop about her childhood. “Thinking of my childhood days in the north, those were part of the best things to ever happen to me. It was lovely and peaceful. It wasn’t unheard of to go to the hills for picnics, the games reserve, and wildlife parks. It’s sad that we have slowly lost our humanity because of certain ideals.

“Whenever I hear of the violence in the north, it is not a pleasant thing to behold as people have lost loved ones, and cherished memories become unclear. It’s so heartbreaking when this happens. We can’t keep killing ourselves,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]