Count me out of sex scenes –Irewole Olaniyan
Tofarati Ige; [email protected], 08068792241 (SMS only)

Budding actress, Irewole Olaniyan, looks daring and adventurous. A trip to her Instagram page would also show that she has no qualms about baring a little skin. All these would make many believe that she wouldn’t consider it a big deal to act a sex scene in the movie. However, the actress ruled out. She told Sunday Scoop, “I will never act in a sex scene. The most I can do is kiss. I have shared a kiss on set but it has never been awkward.”

On which actor she would like to share a kiss with, the actress blushed and said, “There’s no one for now; except you want me to mention Korean names.”

Olaniyan also maintained that she didn’t belong to the class of actresses who use the profession as a cover to practice glorified prostitution. She added, “I can’t say about anybody else but for me, I’m into acting because it is my passion. Right from my childhood days, I’ve always seen myself as an actress. I love being in a position where I can influence other peoples’ lives positively.”

Describing her experience in the industry so far, the actress said, “I started my career in 2014 but I went on a break to focus on school. I got back into the industry in January 2019. It has been hectic but I am still pushing. I, however, thank God because I’m fine. The journey has been smooth and rough. In the early days, it was quite difficult for me to get my lines correctly. But, I have started getting my lines now and saying the right things.”

The third-year Mass Communication student of Caleb University, also confessed that she hadn’t been having it easy combining her acting career and academics she stated, “It has been really tough. I haven’t responded well but at the same time, I am still putting in my best.”

The actress stated that though her dad ‘has issues’ with her career, her mum loves it and is supportive. She also admitted that she knows the industry does not pay well, so she is involved in other businesses. According to her, “I am actually involved in a lot of things. I have a fashion line called Luxe By Ire.”

Though she often wears cloths that give an ample view of her bosom, Olaniyan said she was not intentionally flashing her boobs. “My face is the favourite part of my body, not my boobs. As for your claim that I often flaunt my boobs, I’ve never observed that. I can’t really say whether I like it or not but I’m always myself,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]