ICYMI: I thought acting porn would bring money, fame – Savage Trap Queen
Olajide Samuel

The name, Delphina Joy, may not ring a bell, but when you mention Savage Trap Queen, many know who she is.

Savage Trap Queen shocked many months back when she declared that she earns between N80,000 and N100,000 for every movie she features in as a porn star.

The svelte damsel who recently quit being a porn star told Saturday Beats the reason for her action. She said, “I was cheated and assaulted as a porn star. I was disrespected, and I wasn’t even paid completely. I don’t think anyone should go into it. I decided to quit when I looked at my life and caution myself. I didn’t know what I was doing. When I was into porn, people assumed I was making a lot of money. However, porn companies make more money than porn stars; they only give them a token. I said to myself that wasn’t the kind of life I wanted to live. I know the society I live in doesn’t accept such immorality. I won’t advise any young Nigerian to venture into it because whether you like it or not, whatever action you take has consequences, either good or bad”.

On how she started her career as a porn actress, Trap Queen noted that the job was packaged to her in the guise of a reality television show.

“I didn’t plan to be a porn star. A friend actually told me about the job. She told me it was a reality TV show and not porn. When I complained to her that some of the faces I saw were the individuals I knew as porn stars, she still maintained that it was a reality TV show. However, on getting there, I realised it wasn’t a reality show; it was porn. The girls and the first person I worked with were convincing and led me into it. I could have resisted them, but I was foolish. I thought it would fetch me money and fame because I love being in the limelight. I love the celebrity lifestyle,” she said.

Savage Trap Queen also shared her plans for the future, adding that she desired not to be judged.

READ ALSO: Very few men can manage successful women –Ara

She stated, “I have embraced a new life and I’m trying hard to penetrate into Nollywood because I want to become an actress. I also love dancing so I can do well as a video vixen or model. I am tired of being judged. I just want to lead a normal and peaceful life, and be happy. I hope Nigerians out there give me another chance so I won’t go hungry or fall into depression again because I have been depressed a couple of times.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]