Why comedians deliver jokes in Pidgin English — De Don
Chux Ohai

Bar 32, a bar and restaurant situated on 32 Salvation Road, Opebi in Ikeja, Lagos, may not be everybody’s dream of a luxurious celebrity hangout, yet it offers fun lovers an exciting menu that includes live comedy performances on Fridays and Saturdays.

Most Fridays, between 6pm and 9pm, the bar, which sits next to the Niteshift Coliseum and was founded by popular standup comedian, De Don (real name is Okiemute Iruvwe) two years ago, opens its doors to guests who often appear to be in dire need of humour best served in Pidgin English.

“In this part of the world, to be honest, jokes are best delivered in Pidgin English or the Mother tongue,” De Don explains, in an interview with our correspondent.

Since the average Nigerian is not accustomed to communicating in fluent English, he argues, standup comedians have no choice other than to entertain their audiences in pidgin or mother tongues.

“When it comes to comedy shows, the average Nigerian fan always prefers jokes to be delivered in pidgin. But this is not peculiar to Nigeria. Even in the United States of America, comedians make jokes in their own varieties of Pidgin English. If you go to the French-speaking countries in Africa, you will find that entertainers, not just comedians, generally perform in Pidgin French.

“I think it is just natural for comedians to deliver their jokes in the local variety of Pidgin English because that is the language they understand best. The members of an audience connect more with the comedian on stage when he talks to them in pidgin. However, there is an exception: comedians don’t use pidgin when they are working as masters of ceremonies during corporate events,” De Don adds.

Asked why comedians have formed the habit of targeting celebrities or other prominent Nigerians for veiled insults, when dealing with trending issues on stage, he replies, “It is just natural for people to connect with trending issues. So when we weave jokes around such issues, we connect with the audience and make them to laugh more.”

Although De Don admits that standup comedy has gradually gained wide acceptance in Nigeria, with impressive turnouts being recorded at various shows held nationwide, the comedian frowns at certain unethical practices amongst his colleagues.

“It is unfortunate that originality is not being celebrated among Nigerian comedians. Many comedians host big shows around the country without having enough materials. Most of the time, they lack original jokes. What they usually do is to steal other people’s jokes and reproduce them. This is very wrong. We are making efforts to check this trend,” he says.

However, explaining why he founded Bar 32, De Don says, “I wanted a place where my fans, especially my radio fans, could gather to enjoy themselves and be thrilled to some rib-cracking jokes from stand-up comedians.

READ ALSO: Gombe civil servants fraudulently earn N2.5bn monthly —Gov

“Also, I needed a place where I could try out some new materials before going out to deliver them to bigger audiences. At the same time, I wanted a platform for grooming new talents and giving upcoming comedians opportunities to showcase their talents.”

The stand-up comedian is obviously nursing a bigger dream for the bar. Top on the agenda is a plan to expand its operation beyond the familiar Friday show. “There is a need to put in place some structures that will enable us to run the place as a proper comedy bar. We want the bar to operate from Wednesday to Sunday. When you visit us, you are sure to get your ribs cracked,” he says.

Every last Friday of each month, De Don adds, Bar 32 welcomes comedy fans to a much bigger show, tagged ‘Friday Special’, which also features a guest performance by a popular stand-up comedian.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]