Peruzzi vibes with Mercedes-Benz GLS 450
Tobechukwu Victor Okoh, popularly known as Peruzzi, is undoubtedly one of the artistes of the moment.

The singer and songwriter, signed to the Davido Music Worldwide record label and the GoldenBoy Entertainment, was said to have started making music at seven when his father bought him a keyboard.

The artiste was reported to have dumped medical study at a Ukrainian university to pursue his musical career.

Peruzzi, whose 2018 single, “Majesty,” is still making waves, recently took to social media to announce his purchase of a Mercedes-Benz car.

“New whip! Thank God,” he posted via his verified Instagram account @peruzzi_vibes, while sitting atop the white ‘German machine’ in an all-black clothing .

Although the artiste did not name the model of the SUV, it closely resembled the 2019 Mercedes-Benz GLS 450, sold for between $70,150 (N25m) and $126,150 (N45m), according to a popular car review site, edmunds.com.

Features

The 2019 Mercedes-Benz GLS 450 is a member of the Mercedes-Benz GLS family, which is a seven-passenger large luxury SUV offered in three models.

The GLS 450 is the base model and is well-equipped, though it doesn’t include many of the high-end features you might expect in a luxury SUV.

The GLS 450 is a standard all-wheel-drive with 19-inch wheels and a self-levelling air suspension.

It also has power-folding and auto-dimming side mirrors, roof rails, a power liftgate and an Mbrace Connect remote vehicle access.

Interior features include simulated leather upholstery, heated front seats, power-adjustable driver’s seat, driver-seat memory functions, a power-adjustable steering wheel, an auto-dimming rearview mirror and a dual-zone automatic climate control system.

Other features are a seven-inch central display, Bluetooth, a 115-volt household-style power outlet and a sound system that features dual USB ports.

If you are willing to spend more to upgrade the vehicle, your GLS 450 will get additional features such as keyless entry and ignition, a power front passenger seat with memory settings, lighted doorsills and multi-colour ambient lighting.

In addition, the premium version of the GLS 450 gets voice controls, a larger eight-inch central display, Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, satellite radio, lane-keeping assist and blind-spot monitoring.

Additionally, the lighting package bundles adaptive LED headlights and automatic high beams, parking sensors, automated parallel parking system and a surround-view camera system.

Optional items on both the GLS 450 and its ‘big brother,’ the GLS 550, include a panoramic sunroof, heated second-row seats, diamond-quilted leather upholstery, and the Driver Assistance package.

Performance

The standard 2019 Mercedes-Benz GLS 450 offers a 362-horsepower twin-turbocharged V6 that gets the large car moving with little drama.

The engine delivers sharp throttle response and feels powerful in any situation. Its nine-speed automatic transmission provides timely and precise shifts.

In a class where fuel economy is mostly an afterthought, the 2019 GLS 450 fares pretty well as it earns an EPA-estimated 16 mpg in the city and 22 mpg on the highway.

Pros

Spacious third-row seat can accommodate adults

Ample acceleration with any powertrain choice

Quiet cabin with luxurious trim

Cons

Many desirable features don’t come standard on the GLS 450

Still has Mercedes’ older infotainment system.

Source: edmunds.com