International Breweries to begin search for People’s Hero
Chux Ohai

International Breweries Plc, recently announced the birth of Nigeria’s newest reality TV show, The People’s Hero, as part of its effort to celebrate the rich cultural heritage of the people of southeastern Nigeria.

The Marketing Director of the company, Tolulope Adedeji, in a statement made available to our correspondent, described The People’s Hero, which is scheduled to run between August and December 2019, as a reality show that aims at rewarding ingenuity and passion.

“The People’s Hero promises to be eventful, educative, engaging and entertaining. Participants in the show will be coached by highly experienced individuals in the arts. Also, they will be tested and judged by renowned artistes who have made their mark in the entertainment industry,” Adedeji said.

The statement added that auditioning would be held in Enugu and Owerri in August. No fewer than 60 participants would be selected from both cities and later, pruned to 20, who would eventually contest for the star prize of N7m.

“The show will require the participants to display their skills in either singing, acting, spoken word or dancing, which will revolve around their understanding of the Igbo culture,” the statement said. It also stated that the first and second runners-up in the reality show would receive the cash gifts of N2m and N1m, respectively.

The statement read in part, “The best part of the show is that anybody who is fluent in the English Language, Pidgin English, Igbo or any other indigenous language within the South-East and the South-South geo-political zones is eligible to participate in the show, which is open to people of Igbo origin and non-Igbo people who speak their indigenous language fluently, reside in either the South-East or South-South regions and understand the cultures of both places

“The People’s Hero will be anchored by popular on-air personality, Chinedu Ani, also known as Nedu Wazobia. Viacom International Media Networks Africa will produce the show through its leading music, youth, lifestyle and entertainment brand, MTV Base. We are certain that more heroes will emerge from this show to further enrich Nigeria’s thriving creative industry.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]