There’ll always be roles for veteran actors — Tunji Bamishigbin
Veteran actor and filmmaker, Tunji Bamishigbin, speaks about the film industry with KORE OGIDAN

You’ve been in the movie industry for a while. How would you assess the growth of the industry?

It is double-edged. I’ve been around since the inception of Nollywood although there had been the Nigerian movie industry before that. The industry is still growing; it hasn’t really emerged. Hopefully, things will happen because we haven’t really been able to define what our field is— moreso with the series of challenges, such as marketing. It is also an open door affair, so it is difficult to pin down who a professional is in the industry. Many people come in after they have failed in other businesses. They find it convenient to pose as filmmakers but I think we have something on the ground that can contribute to our economic diversification. There could also be an alternative or addition to the economic power of the country if it’s well harnessed. Currently, there isn’t much on the ground, though the government is making an effort- especially the last Lagos State government. They tried to make an input by giving out grants. Sadly, people haven’t felt the impact of these grants or seen the turnaround. There was also the effort by the Bank of Industry. The BOI lent people money to invest in the industry. Nothing has really come from that either. In fact, they’ve stopped it now because it didn’t really yield any growth. I believe the government can create an enabling environment, not necessarily monetarily. A major issue in the industry is that of marketing, and it is attached to many other problems. It’s all about making sure that our ‘products’ are available to people whenever they need them. We have many channels that purchase films that other television groups can transmit. We can watch movies all day long in Nigeria. If a film was released three years ago and I am watching it for the first time today, to me, it’s a new movie. There are many other people who are in the same situation who see a movie as new to them if they are just watching it.

What solutions can you proffer on the issue of piracy in the industry?

The Nigeria film industry started with home videos before the name, Nollywood, was coined for the new industry. However, the challenge is that because more people sat in their homes to watch these movies, the issue of piracy came about to “satisfy” their needs. I don’t think piracy is our biggest challenge and that’s really because it can be conquered. The cinema culture in Nigeria must be built to solve the issue of marketing as this is the technique overseas. Films should first be shown in the cinemas before they are released to other channels of distribution. It seems the home video market is dead now because no producer wants their work pirated and a loss incurred. The film business is one that thrives on mass participation. Cinemas should be made available to the general public and not just the elite. That way, the cinema culture becomes a norm and piracy gets curbed almost completely- if not totally.

Do you think veterans in the industry are slowly fading away because the industry panders more to newcomers?

You must always know the trends and who the people want to see. However, there will always be roles for the veterans. I don’t think veterans are going out of the market. You could need an actor to play the role of an elderly person. In showbiz, popularity matters a lot. Often, you realise that the star you need for your film may not necessarily be a professional actor. But one would rather go for a face that will attract the audience and sell the movie. If you make use of veterans well in your movie, you will get the right applause and accolades. There are many of these veterans who are still making a strong impact across the film industry. As long as an actor understands that maintenance is necessary and he does maintain himself, he would remain relevant in the industry.

What do you know now that you wish you had known earlier?

I’ve learnt many lessons. I know people came into the industry through many avenues. I, like many of my colleagues, came in with a lot of passion because it was what we really wanted to do. Going to the university, I knew my dad would have wanted me to study Law but after my first year studying History, I followed my desire to change to the Theatre Arts department. I didn’t mind losing a year to join Theatre Arts. After graduating, with the will to please my father and prove to people that I didn’t join the Theatre Arts as a means of escaping hard work, I decided to get a degree in Law. I am currently a graduate of Theatre Arts and Law, and I’ll be 27 years at the Bar in December. I also worked in the banking sector but went back to the movie industry because it was what I loved. Ultimately, passion is what will sustain one in the industry. There were people who came into the industry solely with the aim to become stars and in some instances, they didn’t get there.

As a lawyer who is called to the bar, do you still practice?

I used to be a solicitor and I have a partner who handles our advocacy. I recall that I was in court with a colleague many years ago, during the shooting of the television series, Palace, and someone saw me and started laughing so much that it became infectious. Some wondered why I was in court until it was established that I was a lawyer. It’s pretty challenging being an advocate because I’m fully involved in television and movie making. There is no time I’m not writing or thinking of things relating to film work. In fact, I can’t go into politics or anything like that except it will give me time to focus on my productions.

I still practice as a solicitor and I’m engaged in the property business and consulting. I even have clients, both at home and abroad.

What does it mean to be an actor?

It takes a lot to be an actor. It’s a pool of many things. Some people have all these things innate and some others develop the skills. I would like to believe I have the talent and training from the university and outside. I also have the chance of practicing and the three are embedded in me. Some people don’t have the talent but have undergone the necessary training. I am more of a production person than an actor. I enjoy directing which is the key field in the industry.

What challenges did you face when you first got into the industry and what are those you face now?

I started from the theatre, which is the background of the majority of us who are core professionals. We did live theatre before we moved to television. Along the line, the film came in. I was happy with what I was doing although it was a difficult time because we weren’t making money. We could spend months rehearsing our production, yet the show would never leave the stage. The audience would come and watch us and it didn’t exceed the theatre unlike movies which could be shot in Nigeria and watched in another country. The latter meant more money would come in. Initially, when Nollywood started, it was okay for us. There were a few people producing at the time so the output of movies was fewer in comparison to now. Nowadays, it is an all-comers affair. There are many people producing their own films and no one can stop anyone from doing that. There really isn’t any measure of control, and per economics, when supply is high, the price will fall.

How has marriage affected your life?

Marriage has been very sweet. I got married to my sweetheart from my secondary school days, although we didn’t attend the same school. We also grew up in the same neighborhood and were family friends of some sort. We parted for our university studies and came back after graduation.

We have the same curve to life- to impact people. We individually mentor people and sometimes, come together to do the mentoring. We are happy to be able to influence peoples’ lives and that has worked for us really well. Our marriage is over 30 years old and we have never stayed apart from each other. Marriage has been beautiful for me and I thank God for the journey.

What are your hobbies?

I love reading and travelling. I used to play football but with age, I’ve stopped.

How do you like to dress?

I dress for whatever the occasion demands but I love wearing casual clothes. If I’m permitted, I would rather go for a party dressed casually. I like short sleeve shirts, khaki trousers or jeans. I just love being comfortable.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]