Obey, Alibaba, Ozokwor task government on insecurity
Eric Dumo

[email protected]

Instagram: eric.dumo.9

08147600680 (SMS only)

Following the rising spate of insecurity in the country, the government has been urged to come up with urgent measures to tackle the situation.

Apart from politicians, thought leaders and even religious heads that have added their voices to this growing call, a handful of prominent faces in the entertainment industry have also supported the idea, pointing out that the menace has to be arrested before things get out of hand.

Speaking with Saturday Beats in separate interviews earlier in the week, the entertainment stars decried how dangerous it had become to move from one part of the country to another in recent times, expressing fears that the situation could hurt the industry and economy at large if not nipped in the bud.

Veteran gospel musician, Ebenezer Obey, while calling for more prayers for the country, told Saturday Beats that part of the factors contributing to insecurity in Nigeria was the widening disunity among the various ethnic groups in society.

He said, “I believe we need to pray more for this problem to stop. There is so much discordance in the country at the moment.

“We are not living like a united country; the division is too much. What is manifesting now is the result of what had been piling up for so many years that our leaders did not pay attention to.

“Poverty is at a disturbing level in the country at the moment. We need to acknowledge this fact and find ways of addressing it. We need to stand up and address the problem of insecurity.

“The problem of insecurity is already affecting almost everything in Nigeria, including the entertainment industry.

“I think there has to be some sort of reconciliation among the various groups in the country. We all need each other to survive.

“I am afraid that the future is not bright if we don’t rise now and tackle this challenge.”

Speaking on the issue, comedian and social commentator, Atunyota Akpobome, widely known as Alibaba, urged the government to embrace technology as, according to him, it was the best way to solve the problem of insecurity and other crimes in the country.

He said, “We need to apply technology to tackle this issue. We are where we are now because we have failed to embrace technology.

“We need to install CCTV cameras across the country, come up with a robust fingerprint system, and bio-data. We also need to look at how we train our policemen and register vehicles.

“If there is a crime committed anywhere, the police only needs to go there and collect fingerprints, after which they use that to check through their database to know those involved in the act.

“We have used technology to advance other areas of our lives but not security. As long as we have not applied technology in fighting crime in Nigeria, things will continue to get out of hand.”

Disclosing his encounter with a former governor in London, United Kingdom, to buttress his point of insincerity on the part of Nigerian leaders, the ace humour merchant said that those at the helm of affairs in the country knew the right things to do to address insecurity but refused to do it for selfish reasons.

Alibaba added, “I came across a former governor of Niger State in London; he was walking alone. I approached him and introduced myself.

“I asked him why he was walking alone without security, and he said, ‘This is London, nobody can harm me because there are security cameras everywhere’.

“This means that the people ruling us know the right things to do but they have refused to do them because if those things are in place, their corrupt activities won’t thrive anymore.

“The amount of money stolen in this country is enough to put three satellites in space that could help us solve our security problems.

“Our leaders know the right thing; they should do it and stop the unnecessary loss of lives and property in different parts of the country on a daily basis.”

Adding her voice to the debate, 60-year-old Nollywood star, Patience Ozokwor, told Saturday Beats that there was no better time for the government to show that it cares for the citizens than now.

According to her, many entertainers are no longer able to travel to locations for movie shoots because they are not sure of their safety on the road.

She said, “The government should protect the citizens. They know what to do to tackle this problem of insecurity.

“Things are getting out of hand, it shouldn’t be this way. They should do the right thing and save lives.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]