Associating with Davido has improved my brand –Broda Shaggi
Eric Dumo

[email protected]

Instagram: eric.dumo.9

08147600680 (SMS only)

Known by many of his fans as ‘fine boy agbero ’, Samuel Perry, popularly known as Broda Shaggi, is indeed enjoying some of the best times of his life at the moment.

A relatively unknown star a little over a year ago, the University of Lagos graduate has moved from that stage to become one of the most popular young comedians on the social media space in recent times.

Shaggi, who plays the character of a lout (agbero in local parlance) in most of his skits on the Internet, told Saturday Beats that beyond his creativity and hard work, his friendship and association with hip hop artiste, Davido, was among the things most responsible for his wide acceptance today.

According to the young entertainer, managing fame and keeping up with people’s expectations have not been easy for him even though he is doing well in his craft.

He said, “Without a doubt, my association and friendship with Davido has significantly improved my brand.

“Davido is a great guy who is willing to support anyone that comes his way. Knowing and moving around with him has been a blessing for my brand.”

Speaking on how the situation had been with ladies throwing themselves at him, Shaggi, who hails from Ogun State, disclosed that he had learnt to remain focused despite the attention he got from fans.

He added, “It is not unusual for ladies to appreciate you in different ways if you are good at your craft and are famous.

“But as a person, I do my best to focus on my craft and find new ways I can improve.

“Trying to stay up there and make a bigger name has not been easy and it is only through focus that one can achieve that.

“My style of comedy is different and that is why I rely on God for inspiration in coming up with my skits.

“I am a strong believer in God. Anything I do, I put Him first and that is why I rely on Him for inspiration.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]