Celebrities rally round Nigerian actor brutalised by police in South Africa
Eric Dumo

[email protected]

Instagram: eric.dumo.9

08147600680 (SMS only)

Notable stars in the entertainment industry have condemned the brutalisation of Nigerian actor, model and a one-time Big Brother Africa winner, Tayo Faniran, by policemen in South Africa.

Faniran, who lives in the former apartheid colony, was driving out on Thursday when a police van suddenly pulled over beside his car and the officer inside it ordered him to enter the security vehicle.

But the dark-complexioned actor and social commentator refused to do so, insisting that he would not enter an unmarked vehicle, especially because he had not committed any offence.

After more police officers arrived at the scene, Faniran was forcefully bundled away by the law enforcement officers, who later beat him mercilessly without any concrete reason.

Following a video of the incident posted on the Internet, reactions have continued to pour in with stars like Funke Akindele, Uti Nwachukwu, Do2dtun and several others condemning the attack on Faniran.

In a post on Instagram, Akindele expressed fears for Nigerians in South Africa, calling on God to protect her compatriots in that country.

She wrote, “I’m so sorry Tayo, please come home. I’m so worried for Nigerians there. In all, the Lord will direct our steps and provide for all our needs.

“We all looking for a means of livelihood and I pray we shall not encounter sudden death. God be with us all.”

Also expressing his thoughts on Instagram, Nwachukwu, a former Big Brother Africa winner, urged Faniran to gather strength and move on strongly.

He said, “Stay strong brother. The Lord will always be your strength.”

On his part, Do2dtun, a popular show host on radio and television, called on others to follow in the footsteps of Faniran and resist harassment of any kind by law enforcement agents wherever they find themselves.

He said, “Tayo you are super brave. I also want to commend you so well for changing the narrative and refusing to be part of the bandwagon of people who just accept things the way they are.”

Thanking everyone for their support, Faniran, who said he would not press charges, urged Africans to speak for what is right and be bold to challenge those trying to oppress them.

He said, “I just want to thank God for my life. I want to thank everybody that stood up for me. I really appreciate everything.

“In Africa, we are still enslaved; it is a problem that affects almost every African.

“I woke up on Friday feeling pains all over my body. The beating was too much, the bitterness and hatred were real. They put two handcuffs on someone who is not a criminal. The policemen didn’t take me through the counter, they took me through the back (door) to continue the beating.

“I am not interested in pressing charges, at this point, I just want to thank God for my life.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]