Improve Nollywood, don’t ban foreign films, Twitter users tell Desmond Elliot
Nollywood actor and a lawmaker in the Lagos State House of Assembly, Desmond Elliot has called for the federal government to place a ban on foreign films.

Elliot made this remark during an interview with HipTV.

He likened the banning of foreign films to how the federal government banned rice.

READ ALSO: One killed, N200m property lost as police, Shiite clash

Elliot said “The federal government need to consciously and intentionally focus on improving this industry. Treat it like you’re importing rice, ban all foreign content, make it difficult for all foreign content to come in, so the local content can grow”.

However, some Nigerians took to Twitter to react to the actor’s opinion

Desmond Elliot, Nigeria don’t need to ban Foreign movies for Nollywood to grow. In case you need my advise this what Nollywood need to do.

Create outstanding storylines set for e.g @UpNorthTheFilm_ #TheYelloSun @Lionheart_Movie #WeddingParty

Seet back and watch the space. — Sylvester Emmanuel (@_SEmmanuel) July 22, 2019

What Desmond Elliot don’t know is that, Banning Hollywood movies in Nigeria would probably would lead to the death of all the cinemas in the country. #Naijablogger. — Samuel Date360. #Naijablogger (@Naijablogger) July 22, 2019

How can you ask the Nigerian government to ban foreign movies should other countries ban our music and movies? Desmond Elliot should have asked that they support our movie industry so that we can get up to the standard the foreign movies are at cos we need to step up our game. — strategy (@Noblestrategyy) July 22, 2019

It should interest Desmond Elliot to know that Nollywood surpasses Hollywood as the world’s second largest movie industry by volume, right behind India’s Bollywood. The problem with our industry is quality and mediocre storylines. We are fed up with the “Igwe and Mazi” movies. — The Serial Chiller (@Beneezrr) July 22, 2019

Hon Desmond Elliot would have made more sense advocating for strengthening copyright laws rather than proposing a ban on foreign movies. But what do I know when I no be Nigerian ‘honourable’. pic.twitter.com/TOZkkqSqr9 — Gbemi Dennis™ (@GbemiDennis) July 22, 2019