It’s not true reality show stars don’t have long careers – Okeimute (Project Fame)
Tofarati Ige

The winner of the ninth season of Project Fame, Okeimute Ighoroje, doesn’t agree with those who posit that music reality show winners rarely have long and flourishing careers.

She told Sunday Scoop, “I wouldn’t put it that way; I believe it has to do with the individuals involved. Project Fame alumni such as Iyanya, Chidinma and Jeff are doing well in their careers at the moment and they are still moving on.”

Okeimute also stated that her stay in the academy actually prepared her well for the real world of show business. She said, “When I got into the industry after Project Fame, I wouldn’t say I had any shocker because the academy was like a training ground for the real world. We were taught a lot of things and our principal, Joke Silva, told us so many things that would happen after we left the academy and how to deal with them. Also, I was handed over to Illbliss, who has a wealth of experience in the industry. He was contracted by Ultima Studios specifically to handle my EP and he taught me a lot of things. The project turned out to be successful.”

On the most important lessons she picked from the reality show, Okiemute said, “Consistency and hard work. No matter how hard it may seem, it will always get better if you continue working.”

Maintaining that fights in the industry weren’t restricted to females, Okeimute said, “There are also catfights between male artistes; it’s just that women talk more. Two guys can be in a room and be quiet even if they don’t like each other. But two ladies cannot do that; they will surely speak out. I don’t think it is peculiar to female artistes; the industry is filled with catfights. People always like to compare artistes and that often breeds other issues such as envy and enmity.”

The singer revealed that she had just made a song titled, Money, with GospelOnDBeatz, and South African artiste, Moonchild Sanelly. According to her, she is also working towards releasing a new song by next month.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]