People look down on me for not flaunting my wealth –Halima Abubakar
Mobola Sadiq

It’s somewhat a norm across the world for entertainers to flaunt their material possessions in the social media, for different reasons. And many celebrities in the Nigerian entertainment industry seem to understand the game perfectly.

But for actress, Halima Abubakar, who has also been in the movie industry for quite some time, she said people often look down on her and tend to underrate how well she has done for herself because she doesn’t flaunt her wealth.

In an interview with Saturday Beats she said, “People do that a lot (look down on me), including my colleagues, because I’m humble and friendly. I get a bit hurt at times because I’m human and blood flows through my veins. But when things like that happen, I usually go mute and allow the person to be stupid.

“I consider those that troll me to be jobless. I think they need to take their lives more seriously. Nobody can take (away) my happiness. They did that 10 years ago and I ended up being sad for seven years for no reason. But I won’t be dragged into such nonsense drama again.

People like fake things – they like to see one living a fake life and sharing it online. But that’s not the kind of life I want to live. I just want to be free. I wouldn’t go out of my way to be fake in order for people to like me.”

Speaking further on life in the industry, the Kogi State-born thespian pointed out that there was too much fake smiles in the industry.

“I don’t know who my friends in the industry are anymore; they all have pretentious smiles even though it’s not peculiar to the movie industry. Everywhere, one would see people with fake smiles and I’m not interested in that,” she said.

She added, “I can call Eucharia Anunobi a big sister because she advises me. Also, I have people who love me and can fight for me, even when I’m not there. Calling someone a friend entails a lot. I take my family members as my friends.

“On Instagram, I congratulate my colleagues, even if they are not my friends. I like to hear good news and see good things. I’m a lovely person but I don’t understand the ‘beef’ (some people have with me). Uche Elendu and Uche Ogbodo are my friends and colleagues.”

READ ALSO: Jamaica midfielder Clarke dies after stabbing

The actress also said she could never be interested in friendship with people who feel too big to apologise when they offend others, adding that she’s wont to avoid people who would not tell her the truth because, according to her, such persons are not real friends.

Halima, who is a graduate of Bayero University, Kano, argued that it isn’t proper for celebrities to fight or say whatever they like on social media.

She added, “I don’t go on social media to say irrelevant things or fight anyone. It’s just unfortunate that a lot of people misunderstand me. But on the flip side, if everybody is praising me, I might not see the faults in anything. However, I know what is good and what is bad and I appreciate people being truthful.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]