I shared my rape ordeal to inspire others –Calabar Chic
Olajide Samuel

Fans of social media comedian and actress, Steph Isuma, better known as Calabar Chic, were taken by surprise months back when she narrated her rape experience and how she had to battle with depression after the ordeal.

Speaking more about the incident in a chat with Saturday Beats, Isuma said, “I shared my story to inspire hope. I want people to know that depression is real and that they are not alone in whatever they are going through. I battled depression for a long time after I got raped at the age of 14 and I attempted suicide on a number of occasions. Since we don’t take issues of depression and sexual abuse as seriously as we should in our society, I decided to shed more light on the matter by sharing my story with people.”

The entertainer added that speaking up was therapeutic for her. “For me, speaking about it was therapeutic. While trying to help others, I was also helping myself. I decided to share my story because I had spent so many years in hiding, and I felt if I could inspire just one person, I would feel fulfilled. I didn’t want my story to be untold when it could inspire some people to help themselves. I have come to understand that living is an act of bravery, and as happy as I appear to be now, there were times I fought hard to get through the day. The truth is that some of the people we look up to, who appear to be the strongest, are also fighting some tough battles.”

On what she considers to be her greatest achievement, Calabar Chic said, “I believe that life is a constant work in progress and the small and big moments all make up who I am. But, one of my greatest achievements so far would be getting my university degree. My parents wanted that so much for me and I made them proud as I graduated with a good result. All their struggle and hard work paid off, so it was a win-win for all of us.”

She also described self-discovery as the greatest achievement one could have in life, “because if one discovers oneself and accepts what one is, one would be able to live up to one’s true potential and be happy,” she added. “For me, surviving the last 14 years of my life and being able to stay happy is one of my biggest accomplishments. And I am immensely proud of myself for that.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]