I’m not fighting with my partner, Yewande – Omobola (Oshisko Twins)
Tofarati Ige

The duo of Omobolanle Adigun, and Yewande Oyedele, aka Wande Crown, who make up the group, Oshisko Twins, endeared themselves to many with their unique style of comedy. However, some have also accused them of being monotonous.

Speaking on their current projects, Omobola told Sunday Scoop, “We have stopped posting on our personal pages (on Instagram) and we have been trying to ‘groom’ our official account. Right now, we are working on a short film, but we had some issues with the editor and that is why it hasn’t been released. We would like to put out the film before embarking on other projects. We have also been featuring in other people’s works and events.

Omobola also insisted that there was no iota of truth in the nagging rumour that she was no longer on good terms with Yewande. “Who would say such? We have been posting materials on our joint page. It’s just that not everybody knows about our new joint page because it hasn’t been so easy diverting traffic to the new page. Such people may have been expecting us to post on our individual pages,” she said.

Describing how they had cultivated their relationship over the years, Omobola said, “The Yoruba have a saying that even the tongue and mouth sometimes fight but they find a way to resolve their issues. Truly, we cannot do this forever, but if we are going to pursue different interests, it wouldn’t be as a result of malice but mutual understanding.”

Mobola argued that their style isn’t monotonous. “For those who follow us, they would know that we haven’t been restricting ourselves to just the advert style that we do. We know that variety is the spice of life and people tend to get bored when they are exposed to a particular style for too long. We have an Indian series and other concepts that our fans like us for. We also develop skits on trending issues”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]