My failed rap career pushed me to comedy — Owen Gee
Popular comedian, actor and filmmaker, Owen Osamwengie, aka Owen Gee, speaks with OLAJIDE SAMUEL on his career, the comedy industry and other issues

You have been in the industry for a while. What has helped you remain relevant?

I have actually been in the industry for close to two decades. I think I started getting paid professionally about 20 years ago. What has kept me going are the strength and the ability to constantly reinvent. I have always been able to reinvent and move with the right trends at the right times. We are actually in an era where Instagram comedians are doing a lot of videos. So far, I think I have shot close to 100 videos. I have only released about half of them. The other half is going to come in very quick succession within the next two months.

How did you start your comedy career?

I actually started out as a music artiste. I always thought I was going to be the biggest artiste in Nigeria. I had a failed rap career when I was in the higher institution; it wasn’t easy for me. It was a good career, but people found me funnier when I talked, as compared to when I rapped or sang back in school. People would actually pay me to anchor their events, but I had to pay people to perform as a music artiste. I then asked myself a pertinent question, “Why should I pay people to do something, when people pay me to do another thing?” I stuck to comedy and I was glad that people found me good at it.

Even after I graduated and started working, I had to resign my job in the oil industry to pursue a full-time career in comedy. I am happy I took that decision.

Who gave you your first opportunity in the industry?

I don’t think anybody gave me the opportunity; it was a God-given talent that I decided to project on my own. I just took the opportunities and challenges that came my way. With hard work, I turned them into insurmountable victories. I just decided to go after my heart and do what I really love doing.

How were you able to surmount some of the challenges you faced at the start of your career?

It was really tough. I just had the mindset not to give up. There were times I woke up and felt like throwing in the towel. However, the love for what one stands for and how one does it would normally overshadow any challenge that comes. One should also consider the number of people one makes happy by doing what one does.

Life is full of challenges. There is no profession that does not have its own fair share of challenges. If you leave the job that you are supposed to do just because of the challenges that confront you, that means you are not prepared to go through life.

That being said, the major challenge I faced at the start of my career was the issue of acceptance. It was difficult for us, young comics, then to prove that we could deliver, coming from a background of zero experience. We already had the likes of Alibaba, TeeA, Okey Bakassi, and Basorge Tariah, among others, making a living off comedy. Then, we were the new breed who had to show that we were also worth being paid for doing this.

When you started comedy, did you know you would eventually delve into acting?

It was part of the plan and I was prepared for it. I knew I was going to do a lot of other things, because right from my days in school, I had done many things. I knew that eventually, I would go into doing other things such as acting. Comedy is part of the arts. I didn’t study the arts; I actually studied Mathematics and Statistics.

It is believed that many comedians repackage jokes of their colleagues. What’s your take on that?

It is funny when people say comedians repackage jokes of their colleagues. I don’t know if that is the right word to use. There are times when thoughts are similar, especially on some particular topics. You might perceive a particular event the same way your colleague would perceive it. I have always believed that one’s material should be real. Comedy should not be limited to just telling jokes– it could be about experiences, or a situational analysis. A comedian is supposed to be somebody who has a hilarious take to life. Streamlining the comedy industry to just telling jokes is a no-no for me.

However, I must also note that musicians repackage other people’s songs. Do you know how many people have made different versions of Bob Marley’s Redemption Song?

Do you share the opinion that social media comics are gradually taking over from stand-up comedians?

They are not gradually taking over; society is just beginning to accept them more. There is a paradigm shift, and that happens in every industry. There comes a time when people just want something new. Social media is taking over everything; even from TV to radio.

These days, people don’t have time to sit down and actually watch television. Most people own mobile phones, with access to the Internet, and can afford to see whatever they want whenever they want. And they are getting addicted to it.

Before a person would decide to save to watch a comedy show or attend a once-a-week comedy club, he already has a mobile phone on which he is able to watch skits by online comedians. After some time, he will most likely feel more attached to that comedian he watches every day.

How successful was your movie, 200 Million?

It depends on what you mean by success. In the areas of acceptability, cast and delivery, and the ability to make people laugh, it was successful. The movie was well done. But, did I make too much money? Not as much as I would have expected. I wish I had made more money; perhaps, I would have been driving that Mercedes Benz C Class I like by now.

What do you think can be done to curb the spate of depression in the country?

Firstly, we need to establish ‘depression centres’. There should be hotlines that people can call and talk to specialists in that area. It is said that a problem shared is a problem half solved.

To curb depression, one has to take one’s mind off a lot of things. You need to appreciate life for what it is. There are some people who are practically struggling to be alive. You should thank God every day for the life that He has given you. Our people often say that once there is life, there is hope. I believe that listening to music and sermons can also strengthen one’s thinking power.

Also, surround yourself with great people, who appreciate and love you. Stop being around people who see life as a competition and are always ready to condemn you.

What are some of the projects you’re currently working on?

I’m really not used to talking about the projects I’m working on, but because this is a national daily, my helpers may be reading this. I am working on some projects and another movie. I need support. It doesn’t have to be financial. I am considering collaborating with people. This industry has grown beyond the time when one person would carry the whole burden on his head.

Why do you think comedians fade off the scene too quickly?

I really cannot say. This is a question I have no answer for. It is not easy (to operate) in an economy where you don’t get the necessary support that you are supposed to get. Hunger is not a respecter of any man. If you have ever been hungry, you will know how difficult it could be.

As an artiste, if you realise that there are other things you could do to make a bigger daily bread for your family, you may be forced to do it. Some actually do it. They would go into something else, make money, and use that money to relaunch their careers. It is never too late to have a comeback. Being a creative mind is not easy. I have been writing all morning, preparing many things just to fuel my creativity. If I am not making the kind of money I think I deserve, I might be tempted to do something else. If that something else makes me more comfortable, then I might as well just embrace it. It depends on the individual and what he or she has chosen to do with his or her time.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]