People’s opinion that I’d be a prostitute pushed me to succeed –Amarachi Amusi
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Actress and fashion model, Amarachi Amusi, recently surprised her mother on her birthday. Sharing the special moment with her fans on her Instagram page, the actress noted that many people told her mother that she would end up as a prostitute, adding that she was grateful to God that the story was different today. In an interview with Saturday Beats, Amusi noted that what some people said about her in the past pushed her to make a success out of her career.

She said, “It is very interesting when an individual is unpredictable. When I heard those things, I felt that my achievements in future would shock them. I felt they gave me a chance to surprise them, I knew I was going to get into school and do very well in my studies. They later realised that I was intelligent and not a prostitute. It motivated me and helped me to do better.

“All the negative things they said about me motivated me to do better in my career. I am very hard-working and focused naturally. When you know people are expecting you to fail, you’ll make sure you disappoint them.”

Speaking about her acting career, she noted that she switched to making skits on her social media pages when she discovered that the stress involved in movie production was not commensurate with the pay.

“I don’t look for roles anymore; I only go on movie sets when I am invited specially to avoid being underpaid. Acting takes my time as a woman and I would need time for my family in future. For now, I am using my skits to chase my passion for acting.

“The highlight of my career was when I started noticing a significant growth in the number of views my videos were getting; this was towards 2018. Before I knew it, I started getting contracts to run adverts for people,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]