Fake life is expensive, I can’t afford it –Olabisi Adeshinaola
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Up-and-coming actress, Adeshinaola Olabisi Adufe, has said the pressure from cyberbullies frustrates her sometimes as a thespian. The light-skinned actress, who delved into the world of entertainment some years ago, noted that beyond cyberbullying, her inability to meet the expectations of some of her fans was also a major problem.

She said, “I can’t afford a fake life; it is very expensive. I’ll have to lie all the time and cover up a lot of things. It has ruined people’s careers. Sometimes I get tempted, but I am contented.

“Some actors live beyond their income just because they want to look expensive; it’s not limited to the movie industry alone.

“I made a lot of sacrifices when I started; I was owed for my services many times. Sometimes, I don’t even get paid. I am happy that I have another source of income through my business.

“I produced my first movie in 2018. I have close to five movies that I have produced on my own. It is challenging to see that people do not appreciate some of my efforts in movie production sometimes. Despite the fact I have to fund myself; after the movie is released, I receive backlash sometimes online.

“I am happy with the impact my movie on child abuse has had on the viewers. After the movie was released, I received a lot of text messages from young girls telling me how their stepfathers and uncles took advantage of them in the past.”

She also talked about the importance of being within a circle in the movie industry. According to her, there is a form of discrimination that exists in the movie industry, in the sense that some of them prefer to work with people within their circles.

She said, “Actors usually have a group they prefer to work with; this sort of discrimination affects the growth of up-and-coming actors. It is a huge challenge. I have been discouraged several times, but I keep encouraging myself. If an up-and-coming actor doesn’t belong to some certain caucuses, it may be difficult for them to rise.

“Cyberbullies are also one of my major challenges; some of them say negative things to me. They even go to the extent of asking me if I am truly an actress. They expect me to buy followers on social media to boost my online profile. Also, some people who ask me for money insult me when I am not able to give them.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]