My ‘look-gooding’ blunder was a blessing to me –Hannah Sodiya
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Earlier in the year, a clip from a Yoruba movie in which an actress, Hannah Sodiya, said ‘look-gooding’ instead of ‘good-looking’, went viral.

The blunder became a popular term used to describe handsome men in a trendy way. In an interview with Saturday Beats, Sodiya described it as a mistake on the part of the production editor.

According to her, she corrected the mistake during the pre-production phase of the movie but the corrected version was not the one released to the public.

She said, “It was a mistake; I was supposed to play the role of an educated lady but I made a mistake and I corrected myself while I was still on set. The fault was from the editor; he was supposed to cut that scene off but he didn’t. I was very sad but sometimes you just have to let things go. Some mistakes make people go viral.

“I didn’t feel good about the viral video but I summoned the courage and got encouragement from my boss and elders in the industry. I was not able to go out that day after the video went viral. It was a friend of mine that called me from the UK that blogs had posted a video of me making a grammatical error.

“My boss and the marketer of the movie motivated me to come out. I was sad; I didn’t feel good about it. My boss later gave me the idea to turn the grammatical mistake into a movie. I decided to leverage the viral video by making my recent movie out of it. It is a tag for me now; people call me by the grammatical error anywhere I go.

“The mistake is also a blessing to me. I am not bothered if people call me the ‘look-gooding’ girl on the street. At some point I was bothered, but not anymore. There is no way I won’t have challenges in the movie industry. I see it as a chance to rise to stardom; it is a big privilege for me.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]