It’s tough to convince Nigerians that disc jockeys can sing –DJ ECool
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Ebianga Inang Ikpeme, popularly known as DJ ECool, has said it is difficult for him to convince his fans who know him as a disc jockey that he is also a musician. Ikpeme, who recently released a new single – Personally, told Saturday Beats that the inspiration behind his new song came from the urge to explore the musical side of his talent.

He said, “The industry in Nigeria doesn’t respect DJs’ fees. I was thinking of the business side of the artistry, and that was why I decided to do my new single. It came from a bid to improve my brand since I am musically inclined. It is very hard to convince Nigerians that it is okay for a DJ to become an artiste . Actors sing, singers act; so why can’t DJs sing?

“Being a DJ is not a means to an end for me. I branded myself properly and that was how I was able to make money from it. In the early years of my career, there were not too many DJs in Atlanta, so the market was open for me. I had to withdraw from school because a lot of people required my service. I told my mother I wasn’t happy in school and that I found happiness in being a DJ. A year later, I started my art as a DJ.

“I started making money from it and my mother was shocked. I was accepted in Atlanta and I took advantage of it. I make more money now; I moved down to Nigeria because I needed another kind of challenge. I had to accept that I was an up-and-coming DJ when I moved back to Nigeria.”

Speaking about how he had been able to sustain his relationship despite being an entertainer, he described his ability to respect his girlfriend of seven years as the secret of his relationship.

“I have been in a relationship for four years now; my girlfriend gets uncomfortable sometimes, but I don’t disrespect her because she had been there (for me) before I became famous. Women come around but I try to draw the line. I try to communicate with her every time to conquer distance,” he told Saturday Beats.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]