Highest grossing movies of all time
Kore Ogidan

Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs

Released in 1937, Walt Disney’s Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs was the first animated feature film. The story revolves around a wicked queen who is jealous of her stepdaughter’s beauty and orders her killed. When she discovers that her stepdaughter is alive and hiding in a cottage with seven dwarfs, she disguises herself as a hag and plans to kill her by herself.

The movie grossed a whopping $982 million.

The Exorcist

The horror film, starring Linda Blair, was released in 1973. The tale of an exorcism is based loosely on actual events. Regan (Linda Blair) starts acting odd; levitating and speaking in tongues. Her worried mother (Ellen Burstyn) seeks medical help, only to hit a dead end. A local priest (Jason Miller), however, thinks the girl may be seized by the devil. The priest makes a request to perform an exorcism, and the church sends in an expert (Max von Sydow) to help with the difficult job.

This horror flick boxed out $996.4 million

Doctor Zhivago

This movie is centered on the Russian Revolution. Yuri Zhivago (Omar Sharif) is a young doctor who has been raised by his aunt and uncle following his father’s suicide. Yuri falls in love with Lara Guishar (Julie Christie), who has been having an affair with her mother’s lover, Victor Komarovsky (Rod Steiger), an unscrupulous businessman. Yuri, however, ends up marrying his cousin, Tonya (Geraldine Chaplin). But when he and Lara meet again years later, the spark of love reignites.

This movie grossed a tidy sum of $1.11 billion

Jaws

When a young woman is killed by a shark while skinny-dipping near the New England tourist town of Amity Island, police chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider) wants to close the beaches, but mayor Larry Vaughn (Murray Hamilton) overrules him, fearing that the loss of tourist revenue will cripple the town. Ichthyologist, Matt Hooper (Richard Dreyfuss), and grizzled ship captain Quint (Robert Shaw) offer to help Brody capture the killer beast, and the trio engage in an epic battle of man versus nature.

This Steven Spielberg classic grossed out $1.15 billion

The Ten Commandments

This story is based on the Holy Scriptures. The Ten Commandments was the last film directed by Cecil B. DeMille. The story relates the life of Moses (Charlton Heston), from the time he was discovered in the bulrushes as an infant by the pharoah’s daughter, to his long, hard struggle to free the Hebrews from their slavery at the hands of the Egyptians. The Ten Commandments may not be the most subtle and sophisticated piece of entertainment ever concocted, but it tells its story with a clarity and vitality that only few Biblical scholars have ever been able to duplicate.

Coming in at the top of the second half, this movie summed $1.18 billion

READ ALSO: My fight with Toyin Lawani has been resolved — Adebimpe Akintunde

Titanic

This action-packed romance directed by James Cameron is an epic, set against the ill-fated maiden voyage of the R.M.S. Titanic; the pride and joy of the White Star Line and, at the time, the largest moving object ever built. She was the most luxurious liner of her era– the ship of dreams– which ultimately carried over 1,500 people to their death in the ice cold waters of the North Atlantic in the early hours of April 15, 1912. This movie gave Leonardo DiCaprio his rise to stardom.

The classic blockbuster grossed a sum of $1.22 billion

E.T: The Extra-Terrestrial

After a gentle alien becomes stranded on Earth, it is discovered and befriended by a young boy named Elliott (Henry Thomas). Bringing the extraterrestrial into his suburban California house, Elliott introduces E.T, as the alien is dubbed, to his brother and little sister, Gertie (Drew Barrymore), and the children decide to keep its existence a secret. Soon, however, E.T. falls ill, resulting in government intervention and a dire situation for both Elliott and the alien.

This Spielberg science fiction film grossed a bag of $1.27 billion

The Sound of Music

Even if you’ve never seen The Sound of Music, you know its soundtrack and can likely picture its opening shot. It’s that classic and is arguably the most popular movie musical in history. A tuneful, heart-warming story, it is based on the real life story of the Von Trapp family singers, one of the world’s best-known concert groups in the era immediately preceding World War II. Julie Andrews plays the role of Maria, the tomboyish postulant at an Austrian abbey who becomes a governess in the home of a widowed naval captain with seven children, and brings a new love of life and music into the home.

This movie made a total of $1.28 billion

Star Wars

Star Wars is an American epic space-opera media franchise created by George Lucas. The franchise began with the eponymous 1977 film and quickly became a worldwide pop-culture phenomenon.

The franchise has bagged a whopping tune of $1.6 billion.

Gone With the Wind

This movie shot in 1939 is an epic Civil War drama which focuses on the life of petulant southern belle Scarlett O’Hara (Vivien Leigh). Starting on a sprawling plantation, the film traces her survival through the tragic history of the south during the Civil War and reconstruction, and her tangled love affairs with Ashley Wilkes (Leslie Howard) and Rhett Butler (Clark Gable).

Coming in at the top, this movie grossed a total of $1.82 billion.

Credit: CNN