My mother saw acting as a wayward career path — Ben Touitou
Actor and model, Benjamin Touitou, shares his experience in the movie industry with KORE OGIDAN

How would you describe your experience in the Nigerian film industry?

My experience as an actor in Nollywood has been incremental. I have been gathering a lot of knowledge and experience about how the industry works. The acting business has various areas and branches– the arts, science and business. It’s very important to not only get the skills and knowledge right but to also know how to position one’s self as a bankable product. I don’t see myself as just an artiste; I see myself as a business. My experience has been very eye-opening. As an introvert, being an actor has enabled me to come out of my shell more. It has also challenged me. I’m blessed and I’m grateful to God. I have worked with some great actors and filmmakers. I’ve learnt from the veterans I’ve worked with that focus and humility are the keys to long-lasting success in the industry.

How will you assess the growth of the industry and its openness to newcomers?

I think the industry is constantly looking for fresh faces that have the potential to become more; it’s not enough to just be a fresh face. It gives people the opportunity to prove themselves. Once you have your foot in the door, it’s important to ensure it’s the right one and you make the best use of the opportunity. You can’t just perform with the mentality of being judged or assessed, you must do it with the mentality that you are giving a show and you must deliver. As much as the industry allows for new faces to rise , one must also understand that it is very competitive. There are many hungry people out there and in order to be the best, you must constantly outdo yourself as you are your own biggest competition.

Do you think Nigerian actors show professionalism, not just talent, in executing their work?

I have worked with many actors who are professional. I can’t say I’m always professional because there could be external factors that could influence my mood. A professional actor has to be ready all the time– he must be able to block out every distraction and the character he is required to play should be his only focus. This type of professionalism exists in the industry but it won’t be there for every project.

The directors and actors’ guilds are also very powerful because they protect the actors and help to create sanity and order. Professionalism is not just personal, it has to be instituted in such a way that there is a channel through which things move.

How did you get into the industry?

I got in through auditions. I joined an agency as a model and the agent asked if I could act although I didn’t want to act. He introduced me to the Royal Arts Academy, where I met Uduak Isong , who invited me to an audition. She liked my performance and a few days later, she introduced me to Emem Isong, who also auditioned me with many other actors. Emem called me from the crowd and I was auditioned on the spot several times, with different people. That was in 2012 when I got my first lead role in the movie, Lagos Cougars. It has been a consistent journey since then. It, however, takes a lot of work and discipline. One also needs to understand how to build relationships and one’s self for allocated roles.

How did your parents react to your decision to become a full-time actor?

My father had passed on at the time, but my mum wasn’t supportive. She is a very religious woman who saw it as a wayward career path. When she saw the professional level, which is very prim and proper, she tempered down and became more supportive.

How lucrative is the acting business, especially with the rate at which people buy luxury items and claim it’s from film money?

Film money isn’t very great. You won’t become very rich from it but you will become comfortable. The real trick is to reinvest what you have by having multiple streams of income. Acting won’t make you rich but it would expose you to many people and opportunities. You must have a vision for your life and know how to grab opportunities when they come. People package by buying luxury items, whether fake or original, and it’s not wrong to do so. It’s just important to ensure you are not hurting your pocket or yourself by trying too hard to impress.

What projects are you associated with and what can we watch out for in the future?

I have acted in movies such as Guy Man, Forgetting June, and many others.

You should also look out for a movie directed by Uzor Okpechi titled, Kamsi, which will be showing in cinemas soon. Others are The Mystic River, produced by Rogers Ofime and directed by Uzor Okpechi, and Merry Men 2, which was produced by Darlington Abuda.

Tell us about your background.

My father was a Jew from Israel, and my mother is Nigerian (Igbo). My mother is a professor at Babcock University and my dad was a civil engineer and architect before he died in 2012. I have a younger sister who is married. I studied at the University of Valleyview, Accra, Ghana, where I bagged a degree in Computer Science. I love technology and science– anything that has to do with IT, and I’m big on innovation.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]