My fight with Toyin Lawani has been resolved — Adebimpe Akintunde
Olajide Samuel

Background

My most memorable childhood experiences would be the moments I spent with my grandmother. I learnt kindness from her and I miss her a lot. She gave her all to people. I lived with her during my primary and secondary school education. She told us stories about life and how to deal with people. Back then, my ambition was to become a medical doctor.

Education

My elder brother told me I started school too early because I was a smart kid. For my elementary education, I attended Ajebo Muslim Primary School. From there, I moved to Itamerin Comprehensive High School in Ijebu Ode, Ogun State. For my university education, I initially wanted to study Medicine, but I was offered Botany. I didn’t like the course, so I decided to study Mass Communication at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ogun State.

Nollywood

People always told me I was good at acting, and a friend eventually introduced me to a certain theatre group coordinated by Big Abass. I was trained in Big Abass’ organisation between 2003/2004. Later, I joined Murphy Afolabi’s group. I now have my own production company. The title of the first movie I featured in was Olami Lekan.

Parents’ reaction

My dad is late. It was my mum and siblings that I had to deal with. I left home totally in order to pursue my dream. I was on my own, pursuing what I desired to do for some time. At the end of the day, they had no choice but to support me.

Challenges

My biggest challenge is my stature. I hardly get the kind of roles I would love to play. I consider the other challenges I experienced as obstacles I encountered when I started out. But, the story is different today.

Breakthrough

My big break came when I featured in Mama Ereko’s movie titled Omo Eleja. That was when people started paying attention to me. After that, I produced a movie titled, Wasila Coded. These movies are significant to my growth in the industry. I am still a work in progress though. I haven’t got to the height I would love to attain.

Lessons

I have learnt to be determined. If you are not determined in this part of the world, you will be intimidated. When you are intimidated, there won’t be room for growth. I have learnt to be my own competition. I focus on me and keep moving against all odds. I have also learnt to be more cautious when relating with people. That’s because it’s not everyone you love that truly loves you. I have learnt to be strong and focused; not to be intimidated by anyone.

Personal qualities

I have a good heart and I’m very accommodating. I am ever ready to support people, and that has really helped me a lot. I am a very open person, and I love to give.

Personal productions

I have produced eight movies – Ore Itunu, Omotodun, Obun, Wasila Coded, Adigara Wolu, Ana and Wasila Coded Reloaded.

Movie production can be very stressful; it is like building a house. The foundation, which is the story line, has to be solid. The technical aspect should also be good. When you are producing a movie, make sure you use the best hands.

Roles

Because of the roles I play, some people think I am a gangster, but that is not the real me. I will love to act a lover girl role in a movie. I will also love to produce a traditional movie.

Fame

Fame hasn’t robbed me of anything. I do some things and people ask me, ‘Don’t you know you are a star?’ I can do whatever I want to do and go anywhere I want to go to. So long it doesn’t belittle me and my reputation is still intact.

Toyin Lawani

Yes, I was involved in an online fight with Toyin Lawani. There was a mix-up somewhere. However, Toyin is a lovely person; she is so beautiful in and out. After the comment I made on the said post, I sent her a message, telling her I didn’t intend to insult her. She said she didn’t take it personal and we laughed over it. It has been resolved. On her birthday, I was there with my manager. She was excited to see me. We are not enemies. We won’t allow people on social media turn us to enemies.

Personality

I am very down-to-earth. I can be crazy, jovial and friendly. You cannot spend a minute with me and not laugh. I am a lovable person; I don’t like trouble.

Wasilat Coded

I changed my name on Instagram from Wasila Coded to Adebimpe Akintunde because people mix-up a role I played with my real personality. So, I had to revert to my real name because many don’t know it. Sometimes, I win awards, and ‘Wasila Coded’ is engraved on it.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]