I’ve no regrets acting as gateman often— Emmanuel Okonkwo
Tofarati Ige

Budding actor, Emmanuel Okonkwo, also known as Emma Chinedum, has not always had it good with love and relationships. The Uli, Anambra State-born actor revealed to Sunday Scoop that he almost committed suicide when a relationship he had invested a lot in failed. Speaking about his relationship status, Okonkwo said, “I am not married yet but I have a one-month-old baby boy, and I’m making plans to wed his mother. My last relationship didn’t work out and it almost drove me to commit suicide. I locked myself in my room for two weeks and cried my eyes sore. My partner left me for an already made man. This was the same woman I dated for four years and never had sex with.”

Known for mostly playing the role of a gateman, Okonkwo said he was proud of it. He stated, “I’ve acted as a gateman several times and I don’t regret such roles— it means I do my job well. If I’m not mistaken, I believe I have played the role of a gateman over 20 times.”

Recalling how he got into the movie industry, Okonkwo said he was encouraged by his pastor. He stated, “I started acting in church, Christ Embassy. After a while, I was made the head of the drama department. One day, my pastor picked up his microphone and said, “Emmanuel Okonkwo, why not think of commercialising your talent,” and continued his sermon. His words kept ringing in my ears and I eventually started attending auditions.”

The actor also stated that his first movie almost got him into trouble. He said, “After attending auditions for about a month, I eventually starred in a movie titled, Destruction Instinct. I acted alongside Uche Iwuji, Vincent Opurum and Afrocandy, and I played the part of a corrupt policeman. It was a job that later caused trouble everywhere because Afrocandy bought the master tape, went to the US and added some porn scenes to it. It got people talking and my pastor asked why I had to be in such movie. I then explained to him what really happened.”

Okonkwo who has appeared in several movies including Tinta, My kids and I, Rufus and Rosana, Corrupting the Young Mind, Heart of Gold, Fighting Temptation, Nwoke Oma, Neglect, among others, stated that he still had a lot in the pipeline that would blow the minds of his fans when unveiled.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]