I’m happy my videos lift people out of depression – TOV
Comedian and social media content creator, Ola Ojo, aka The Ojo Version (TOV), speaks with TOFARATI IGE on his career and other issues

What stirred your interest in comedy?

I have always been a funny person; someone who says something and everyone around me laughs. I also remember that whenever I cracked a joke, everyone around would say that I should be a comedian. So, I decided to start making videos to make people laugh.

What are some of your most notable moments as a comedian?

My most notable moment as a comedian and content creator is when I walk on the road, especially here in the United Kingdom, and people recognise me and want to take pictures with me. Also, when I got over 100,000 followers on Instagram. Celebrities and movie stars that I have looked up to follow me and some send me direct messages acknowledging my contents. They say that I always keep them laughing. I create my job to focus on content creation and other businesses I have on the side.

You quit your job to focus on comedy. Weren’t you scared of not having a guaranteed source of income?

I made sure I had enough savings before quitting my job here in the UK. Aside from that, I have a lot of businesses; so I wasn’t scared because whether it works or not, I am going to survive as it is not my main source of income. Still, I have been blessed as I have made more money creating content than I have made working for anyone.

Don’t you think you would have a bigger career if you moved to Nigeria, instead of being a London-based comedian?

The part of moving to Nigeria is quite tricky and I don’t think I would have a bigger career if I was based in Nigeria. However, I think I would probably have collaborated with big content creators in Nigeria and at the same time, I would have less access to certain things I have here in the UK such as the ability to quickly move from one location to another, super fast Internet connections, and other things. Honestly, I think I have an edge over people in Nigeria because I have more access here in the UK.

What are some of the peculiar challenges you face as a London-based comedian?

As a London-based comedian, the major challenge is not being able to collaborate with Nigerian creators because most of them are in Nigeria. In the beginning, when I started content creation, my contents were focused on Nigerians and if I was to perform at any show, I needed Nigerians to be there because it was all about them but at the moment, I’m currently expanding and making my content more versatile and open to anyone regardless of nationality.

What’s the story behind your brand name, TOV?

TOV stands for The Ojo Version. One day, I sat down and thought of a way of doing things differently and came up with the idea of creating unique brands and products. That was how TOV came about– Ojo is my last name and the brand has grown massively.

Some people feel that the social media content scene is saturated already. What difference are you bringing in?

I don’t think the social media content creation scene is saturated because as long as you have got something different and new to bring on the table, there is room for you. For instance, if you look at my videos, they are different from that of an average Nigerian. They have hidden messages embedded in them that make people laugh, and you would want to watch it over and over again.

What are some of the changes you would like to see in the social media space?

The major change I would like to see in the social media scene is people being judged by their content, instead of the amount of likes or followers and level of engagement they have. Nowadays, when some people look at your post and it does not have thousands of likes, they think the post is not good. A lot of people don’t bother to watch the video or read the post to see if it is actually nice. That way, it is easy for big content creators to keep getting bigger while the smaller ones keep getting smaller and are not given the opportunity to show what they are good at.

What makes you most happy about what you do?

What makes me most happy about what I do is the fact that I’m able to work from home and I’m able to spend time with my family while doing what I love. I’m also able to earn more money than my colleagues who have a nine-to-five job. There is a lot of sadness and depression everywhere, so I am really happy that my content is able to lift up the moods of people and make them feel better about themselves.

What are your educational qualifications?

I have two bachelors’ degrees. The first was in Computer Engineering from the University of Lagos, Lagos, and the second one was in Information Technology from Coventry University, England.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]