No record deals for talentless artistes — Bigmanity Music boss, Woghiren
Tofarati Ige

[email protected]

08068792241 (SMS only)

The CEO of fast growing record company, Bigmanity Music, Jesse Woghiren, aka The BB02, says the label was founded to nurture genuinely talented artistes. Lamenting the presence of many talentless artistes in the Nigerian music industry, Woghiren told Sunday Scoop, “Bigmanity Music was founded to discover gifted and authentic artists. We help them to prepare for appropriate music industry placements. This also eventually puts the artistes in the centre of the global music spotlight for viable marketing. Our goal is to project true, smart, hard-working, and original talents. There has never been a better time to be an artiste. Opportunities abound but the saturation of the industry by people making noise in the name of doing music make things appear difficult. However, it behooves every stakeholder to identify their true talents and place themselves where they can easily be noticed. For example, if you are a talented guitarist, situate yourself in a place where you can beautifully play your guitar and display your talents.”

Woghiren also stated that the label was set up as a means of giving back to society. He said, “As an organisation, we are prepared to put talented artistes (whether up and coming or established) in an informed position to achieve new heights. We are geared towards the advancement of greater musical values in the hope of making the music industry formidably dynamic, and invariably making the world a better place for creativity. We are giving back what is most important to both the true artistes and their fans. For an artiste to be signed to Bigmanity Music, he or she must be able to write, produce, and perform original and truly worthy materials.”

Woghiren also announced that the artistes on the label’s roster would be embarking on a world tour soon.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]