Ajeluorou to unveil children’s book during Soyinka’s 85th birthday
Chux Ohai

Culture journalist, Anote Ajeluorou, will unveil his maiden children’s storybook, Igho Goes to Farm, in Lagos and Abeokuta on July 12 and 14 as part of the OpenDoorSeries/Wole Soyinka International Culture Exchange event designed to celebrate Nobel laureate, Wole Soyinka.

A special reprint edition of Igho Goes to Farm, facilitated by WSICE, will be distributed to about 1,000 students across the country.

The four-day programme is a yearly feast that celebrates Soyinka, who will be 85 on July 13. The event will begin on July 12 and end on July 15. About 85 pupils selected from different secondary schools, who excelled in an essay competition, will gather in Lagos, Abeokuta, and Akure to felicitate with the literary icon in a number of cultural programmes that will immerse the pupils in Soyinka’s writing, teaching, performance and activism.

The 85 finalists will be hosted by Prof Soyinka in his Ijegba, Abeokuta residence, where they will engage him in conversation and draw from his fountain of wisdom and knowledge. Also a presentation of [email protected] books: Memo to our Future and Igho Goes to the Farm will be made.

Speaking on the event and his forthcoming book presentation, the author said, “The OpenDoorSeries/WSICE is a huge platform to present an important small book like Igho Goes to Farm. The young ones are very impressionable and they need to be guided so they don’t stumble. The book speaks to their concerns and how to navigate some of the modern distractions that can derail them from getting the best from their educational quest, particularly smart phones and social media.

“The book also addresses Nigerian adults on the need to be patriotic. Why have Nigerians failed to develop the country’s tourism potential? Why do Nigerians always go abroad for holidays? Why don’t we patronise local goods and products? Why spend scarce resources on foreign products and goods? These are some of the concerns Igho Goes to Farm tries to address in a subtle way as the youngster lead character is shipped off to the village to spend his long holiday because he fails to perform well in school work while his siblings go to Disneyland in America.”