Excitement as BBN goes full throttle
Chux Ohai

On Sunday, June 7, the fourth edition of the Big Brother Naija reality TV show assumed a different dimension after two of the four housemates nominated for eviction lost out in a ‘game of survival’ beamed live to millions of viewers across Africa.

In what seemed like a shock eviction, Isilomo and Avala lost the right to continue in the competition for the lone prize of N60m for ending up with the least number of coins. Both of them were made to leave the BBN house and join the show’s anchor, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu on the live show.

While Avala, who was clearly the least housemate expected to be evicted from the show, could hardly conceal her disappointment, Isilomo put up a little drama before finally exiting the stage, but not until she described the current Head of House, Jeff, as the ‘fakest housemate’ in BBN Season 4.

Asked who she preferred to emerge winner at the end of the show, Isilomo chose Omashola as the housemate she would want to win.

A review of this edition BBNaija reality show, tagged Pepper Dem, shows that in just eight days, a combination of arguments, fights, endurance and of course, romance, has sparked huge excitement among fans, even as the decision to hold the show in Nigeria continues to generate positive reactions.

Things have moved pretty fast in the House since the day Kim Oprah clinched the Power Card in a game of chance, Jeff emerged as the first Head of House and the first eviction from the show took place.

Judging by the events of the last eight days, the housemates, now reduced to 19, still appear to be sizing up one another. Given their different backgrounds, this is not unexpected.

An important point made by viewers on social media is that the 2019 housemates seem to be a shade more mature than the housemate from the 2018. However, knowing the show has only just begun, how much longer can they retain their “calmness” without getting into any drama? Time will tell.

This perceived coolness has, however, not prevented the occasional emotional outbursts among the Housemates. On Tuesday, the first fight of the season occurred between two females, Tacha and Thelma, over fish! Both eventually put their emotions aside to escape being issued a strike by Big Brother. There has also been a minor dispute between Khafi and Kim Oprah, leading to distrust by the former. Avala similarly declared that she will always have trust issues with all the housemates, regardless of her closeness to any of them.

On the flip side, Omashola is already regarded by fans of the show as the comedian of the house. And it may not be hard to guess why. The handsome young man comes across as a humour merchant and his happy-go-lucky way has given viewers much to laugh about.

Seyi Johnson, grandson of the late politician, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, appears to be the one with plenty of life experience and is always on hand to deliver motivational speeches. Some fans, however, view him as a chatter box.

BBN is incomplete without housemates expressing romantic feelings. Before her eviction, Isilomo was quite cosy with Frodd. Both of them even shared a passionate kiss. Similarly, Diane and Sir Dee seem to be cooking up something as they have become quite close.

But some of the housemates are not in a rush yet as they are still assessing their fellow contenders’ love interests, as evidenced by a midnight boys-only discussion among Frodd, Jeff, Seyi and the “confused” Ike, who appears to be in three minds over Ella, Mercy and Tacha. How well would all these potential relationships turn out?

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]