I don’t mind being second or third wife to a king — Rachel Bakam
Tofarati Ige

Actress and TV personality, Rachel Bakam, is undoubtedly a beautiful woman. A single mother, Bakam has stated that she doesn’t mind being a second or third wife to a king. On if she could be a second wife to anybody, she told Sunday Scoop, “It depends. If I’m to marry a king, then why not; I don’t see it as bad at all.”

The entertainer also stated that she got lots of advances from men. She stated, “I get a lot of advances from men but I manage them very well. Maturity has put me in a better place to handle these advances well. When I was younger, I used to cry because of men’s advances because it made me feel overwhelmed.”

The actress said she was willing to give marriage another chance because of her son. “Yes, I’m willing to give marriage another shot for the sake of my son and the two other children I’m meant to have. I see children before they are born and I’ve seen my two other offspring in advance. I can’t wait to have them. The truth is I love marriage. Though I’ve become pretty independent from being single, I still appreciate the institution of marriage,” the actress stated.

Bakam, who has won about 200 awards, insisted that she never paid for any of them. “I’ve never paid for any award. All my almost 200 awards were earned and received freely. I believe getting the awards is God’s way of putting His Glory on display in my life. He opened up the doors for awards for His ultimate purpose and glory. They are all for God’s glory, not mine,” she added.

Meanwhile, the actress said she had not abandoned acting for broadcasting. She stated, “Acting is still my first love. However, television is demanding; so, it takes most of my time but I do a bit of acting here and there. I am currently working more on film production; I just produced my first movie titled, Land of Opportunity.”

On what she loves most about being a TV presenter, Bakam said, “I love presenting because it allows me to be creative and expressive. I am not only a TV presenter, but a producer as well. I love creating content. For me, it feels really natural to be a television presenter. I usually say that I have a relationship with the camera.”

READ ALSO: I might end up being a pastor —Pretty Mike

Speaking on the biggest mistake she had made in her career, she said, “I didn’t like the way I comported myself on the set of my first movie in Enugu State several years ago when I was just 16 years old. I got enchanted by a co-actor, Jim Iyke, and I kept the whole cast, including Nkem Owoh, waiting. I think that put a black streak on my acting career because I was in my prime then.”

Bakam, who recently launched Piper Sports Clothing line for charity, is also the founder and president of the Nigerian Water Ski and Wakeboard Federation.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]