Why I titled my album King Esther – Shebaby
Tofarati Ige

Actress and singer, Oluwaseyi Ariyo, aka Shebaby, raised some eyebrows when she titled her upcoming album, King Esther. Some people said women were queens, not kings, but the singer stuck to her guns.

In a chat with Sunday Scoop, she explained why she chose that title. The Itara Ife actress said, “The album is named King Esther to celebrate the kingship in every female who has gone through tough times, yet is still standing. It’s a trait of strength and grace. Also, I gave it that title to inspire every female out there who is downtrodden or has gone back into her shell due to life’s challenges. I want her to know that she has got more than enough power on the inside to do exploits and ‘glow up’. The title is not in any way to make men feel threatened, as some perceive. We are not promoting women usurping authority over men contrary to the word of God. No!”

Speaking on her experience managing and performing with a live band, the entertainer said, “Having a live band is not an easy task. It is nothing compared to doing hip hop, because that’s more or less a solo career. In a live band, you have about 12 members, made up of a drummer, talking drummer, lead guitarist, bassist, keyboardist, saxophonist, back-up singers, and band manager. Indeed, working with the band has been very challenging, but my colleague and producer, who doubles as the bassist and coordinator of the band, Deosbeatz, has being so awesome.”

Reacting to insinuations that it was because she wasn’t making waves in the movie industry that she switched to music, Shebaby said, “Let them say. Everyone is entitled to their opinions. I am making progress in my life and that’s all that matters. I’ve grown past worries about hearsay. In a world where what most people do with their God-given talents is to bring others down by tongue lashing or passing snide remarks, it is only smart and wise to stay focused and unwavering to enhance more productivity.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]