My butt is my selling point —Nkechi Blessing Sunday
Tofarati Ige

Actress, Nkechi Blessing Sunday, has had a relatively fast rise in the movie industry. Often in the news for one controversy or the other, it is not surprising that she is one of the most talked about actresses in the country today.

Fond of taking pictures with seductive poses, the Omoge Lekki actress stated that she had to flaunt what she had. When Sunday Scoop asked her if her butt was her selling point, she replied, “Lol…obviously.”

Meanwhile, the actress was unveiled as the brand ambassador of a company during the week, and some insinuated that she might have faked the endorsement deal in order to appear successful. However, she told Sunday Scoop that she had no reason to do that. She said, “I don’t need to fake anything to make myself look successful on social media. Wholesale Naija is a reputable company and I am not the only actress they have as their ambassador. What they paid me to be their ambassador for a year is worth it and is okay for me.”

Sunday also noted that the controversies she was often involved in had helped her brand. “I think all the controversies (I’ve been involved in) have helped my brand to grow more acceptable to a wider audience. My social media engagements have increased and the way I have carved a niche for myself amidst all the controversies, has made brands to pay attention to me as someone who can be of value to them. I remember someone once told me I could never get an endorsement deal because of my past behaviours but God has proved them wrong. Right now, I am a brand ambassador of over four reputable companies,” she added.

READ ALSO: I can’t date boys who use condoms to prevent pregnancy — Adekemi Taofeek

The actress also said she was satisfied with her shape and didn’t have any reason to consider plastic surgery. “What do I need plastic surgery for when I already have what some use money to get — a big behind,” she stated.

On her current projects, Sunday said she would be shooting her next movie in August.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]