Rapping in Yoruba doesn’t mean I’m local — Mz Kiss
Tofarati Ige

Female rapper, Omowunmi Akindele, aka Mz Kiss, says that though she raps in Yoruba language, she is not local. In a chat with Sunday Scoop, she said, “Some people are yet to understand that rapping in a particular dialect or language does not mean the rapper is restricted to a particular area. That I rap in Yoruba doesn’t mean I’m ‘local’. Hip hop is a culture that is recognised all over the world. As long as the sound is good, it has no boundaries. Rap music is a global ‘vibe’, not restricted to a particular language. Now that the sound is cutting across globally, I’m fine with whatever name people chose to describe it as.”

The Owo Meta rapper also argued that it was harder for female artistes to make it in the music industry than their male counterparts. She stated, “It’s quite challenging being a female rapper in Nigeria because the industry is dominated by male artistes. However, it has made me better and more determined to break boundaries. I’m glad people are paying attention to my brand now.”

On some of the peculiar challenges she faces as a female artiste, Mz Kiss stated, “Being a female artiste in this part of the world is a challenge on its own because there’s a belief that females should only be in the kitchen in an African home. As a result of this, when you’re chasing your dreams, you have to work three times harder than your male colleagues to get attention though it’s not really easy for both genders. Women fight gender discrimination everyday and I believe with time, we would also be appreciated and be given what we truly deserve for hard work and bravery.”

Sharing details of her current projects, Mz Kiss said, “I have a single out now titled, Braaa. It was produced by Tiwezi and the video has also been released. It is currently enjoying airplay on television. Also, my next single is ready and it is titled, Owo (Money).”

The rapper revealed that her biggest wish for her career was for more talented artistes in the country to be given platforms to showcase their creativity. “We have many talented people in this part of the world that are yet to be discovered; so, I hope to touch as many lives as possible, wake sleeping dreams and resuscitate dying hopes, so we can take over the world together,” she said.

On if she had ever faced sexual harassment in the course of her career, she simply said, “That’s a story for another day.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]