More honours for Tunde Kelani
Chux Ohai

Ace filmmaker and culture advocate, Tunde Kelani, just earned additional plaudits for his work and consistent advocacy for the preservation and promotion of African indigenous culture, heritage and knowledge systems.

Kelani, whose works include acclaimed films, such as Saworoide, Arugba, Maami and Dazzling Mirage, all but the latter produced in Yoruba language, was recently elected as a voting member of the Board of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the famous American award platform, otherwise known as the ‘Oscars.’

With this new status, the celebrated filmmaker will be able to vote for winning works and artistes in the next edition of the prestigious international and annual award ceremony.

Elected in the ‘Directors’ category, Kelani was among 842 new members from 59 countries. Two other Nigerians on the list of new members are Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje in the ‘Actors’ category and Chinonye Chukwu in the ‘Writers’ category. Membership of the academy stretches across 10 categories, our correspondent gathered.

Last year, the academy also elected four Nigerians. They are the documentary filmmaker, and co-founder/Executive Director of the iREP Documentary Film Forum, Femi Odugbemi, and three actresses, namely, Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde, Wunmi Mosaku and Ngozi Onwurah into its fold.

On the same day, Kelani mounted the rostrum to be conferred with the Leopold Sedar Senghor Prize for African Cultural Creativity and Impact at the Banquet and Award ceremony of the 9th Toyin Falola Annual Conference on Africa and the African Diaspora.

The event held at the Babcock University in Ilishan Remo, Ogun State, which jointly hosted the conference between July 1 and 3 with the University of Texas at Austin, United States of America.

The letter of conferment presented to Kelani partly reads: “The Léopold Sédar Senghor Prize for African Cultural Creativity and Impact is awarded to an African artist of any medium or form, whose works are devoted to harnessing African cultural heritages in creative ways for social consciousness and impact. This Prize is named after the father of Negritude, the visionary poet, politician and first President of Senegal, Leopold Sedar Senghor, one of the most important intellectuals in African history.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]