I never had physical contact with Lizzy Jay, Abiodun Jimoh debunks sexual abuse allegation
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

In the light of the recent rape allegations against Pastor Biodiun Fatoyinbo of the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly, a lot of female celebrities have come out to talk about their experiences with men who have sexually abused them. One of those who made such allegations was actor and comedienne, Lizzy Jay, popularly called Omo Ibadan. Earlier in the week, she accused movie producer, Abiodun Jimoh, of sexually abusing her and some others. She made this known through her Instagram stories. She said, “Mr Abiodun Jimoh, I am not the only one you have sexually abused, there are several others you sexually molest.” In response to this, Jimoh took to his page to debunk the claims, demanding a retraction. When . reached out to Jimoh, he described the allegation as the most challenging thing that had happened to him since he became a producer.

“Since I became a producer, the most challenging period for me has been the trending issue about me allegedly raping/attempting to rape someone. My movie production outfit has a dream of breeding young talents. As an actor, I went through a lot. I realised that the difficulty faced by young actors were barriers, so I decided to make certain things easy for some of them. It is painful that in recent times, some of the people (young talents) that we have groomed are ungrateful.

“Lizzy Jay is one of the few people we laid off recently in January. I had a working relationship with her which was professional. I have never tried to woo her or have any physical contact with her. One of the few times I had to stay in the same room with her was last year and there were other people with us.

“The case in Ife that she mentioned, there was another person in the room with us and what actually happened was that; that night, she was critically ill, I asked her to go home but she said that it t was already late in the night, so she decided to put up with me.

“The other time was on another movie location; we were not able to get adequate rooms in a hotel that day; when we got there, the owner of the hotel said we should manage the available rooms till the next day. I tried to sort other people who were not my protégés out and we (people under my movie production outfit) shared the same room with our other colleagues; we have never been alone. We have never spent the night alone before.

“I was really shocked when I saw her post. People sent it to me, I went to confirm and it was shocking. I realised the best way to go about it was the legal way. My lawyer already served her a letter before the president of the association called me to intervene. I have called my lawyer to suspend legal actions for now but I still have plans to take legal actions,” he said.

Asked if he ever had an affair with any of Lizzy Jay’s colleagues; he said he would prefer to remain silent on that.

He said, “I would like to classify such information as personal. I have told my lawyer everything that he needs to know.”

Asked about the impact of the allegations on his reputation, he noted that he was more worried about his family than his reputation.

“Beyond my reputation; I have to think of my home. That is one of the major reasons I took it up; it is not a pleasant thing for a family man. It is really painful. I know she has her life to live; I pray that she would have a family one day; then she would understand that certain things should not be trivialised. It is not a small issue; I don’t find it funny at all.

“Attempting to rape someone has to do with a physical attempt. Rape is even a more grievous offence. I published a book in 2006; when it was reviewed by a magazine, they said it was ironically written by a man. Even in my stories, I give a lot of power to women; I see them as relevant,” he said.

Saturday Beats reached out to Lizzy Jay and she requested that the questions should be sent to her by email. The questions were sent to her but she had yet to respond as at the time of filing this report.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]