Fajemirokun set to unveil autobiography in Lagos
Chux Ohai

A new book, an autobiography written by prominent industrialist, Chief Oladele Fajemirokun, and titled, The Making of Me: My Odyssey in Business, will be unveiled on July 15, 2019, at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos.

The author, in a meeting with journalists recently, explained that he was compelled by pressure from various quarters to write the book, which tells the story of his journey through the business world.

Apart from the immediate subject, the industrialist added, the book also doubles as an account of his personal experiences as an individual.

“My habit of discussing with friends and colleagues usually veers towards some of them prompting me to put some of the ideas I have into writing because they say that many of my takes on business are not taught at the Harvard Business School and that they would be of immense benefit to younger people who choose to go into my line of business, which is venture capital and ‘angel’ investment. “The same sentiment has been expressed by my children and the top managers in my companies, some of whom I interact with on a regular basis,” he said, stressing that the book was also the product of intense pressure from the directors at HSBC and Standard Chartered Bank in London, who for many years urged him to write about his business life, having played significant roles in the birth and growth of some of his companies in Nigeria.

Indeed, The Making of Me: My Odyssey in Business is a story of a self-made man, who despite his father’s immense wealth was willing to excel in life.

The author said that although his father, late Chief Henry Fajemirokun, was a prosperous industrialist and businessman, he did not inherit his wealth but strove through his own efforts to become a man of means.

Recalling memories of his upbringing under the guidance of his father, Fajemirokun added, “I can declare that I was not born into wealth and after my father’s untimely death, I did not inherit wealth. I have earned everything I own in life. My houses in prestigious locations in Nigeria, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and South Africa were all built or bought by me from my own labour. They were not inherited; neither were they in anyway proceeds from my late father’s estate.

“Until my father died when I was 27 years-old, I never tasted the silver spoon nor the special privileges associated with children of a wealthy father. I never travelled abroad, never went on summer holidays nor attended elite schools. Instead, I started school at St Peters, Ajele.

“Most holidays, I would spend the time sweeping the floor in my father’s warehouse or working as a tally clerk in his clearing and forwarding company. My dad never believed in giving me pocket money. It was a concept that was alien to him, but only as far as it concerned me. He believed that I had to earn my keep. He made me open a passbook account, which he kept, and occasionally made me withdraw money for my siblings. This action of my father created the working hunger for money and survival all my life.

“However, I must confess that his image and influence in society, including his very wide business and social network, created opportunities for me when I eventually entered his business world (a created descent and deceptive street fella). To this extent, therefore, his posthumous influence was significant, and I have to thank him for that. But the story ends there.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]