Police once harassed me when I couldn’t produce laptop receipt –Cute Abiola
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Comedian, Abiola Abdulgafar, popularly known as Cute Abiola, was recently rumoured to have been arrested for fraud after a picture of a boy bearing a striking resemblance to him, who was in that situation, went viral. Some of his fans initially thought he was the one being arrested, while others noted that the suspect was related to him. In a bid to clear the air, Abdulgafar joked about it when he noticed the rumour had gone viral beyond his expectations. However, in an interview with Saturday Beats, he noted that when he saw the post, he laughed over it, adding that he had been harassed by police officers before.

“When I saw the viral post, I showed someone who was close to me and he confirmed that the suspect actually looked like me. A lot of people tagged me in the post, saying I bore a striking resemblance to the suspect. I didn’t feel bad initially, I only laughed about it. When it went really viral; I saw the need to clear the air and tried to make jokes out of it.

“I’ve actually been harassed by police officers in the past; that fateful day, I was going out when they stopped me. I was learning graphic design at the time so I was always with my laptop. They asked for the receipt of my laptop but the receipt was in the house.

“They seized the laptop and told me to go and look for it but unfortunately for me, I couldn’t find the receipt in the house. I went back to them and they demanded an amount of money before they could let me go. They showed me many laptops in their vehicles that they had seized; I had to pay them because I needed my laptop for the graphic design skills I was acquiring at the time.

“I am never scared of going out at all because I don’t have anything to hide. I have a steady source of income so I have proof of how I make my money legitimately. We have young musicians who have made it through music. It is better to stay decently dressed to avoid being harassed; I am always conscious of that,” he told Saturday Beats.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]