Nollywood doesn’t need govt’s money to grow —Ayo Badmus
Tofarati Ige

Actor, Ayo Badmus, strongly believes that Nollywood doesn’t need government funds to be properly developed. He told Sunday Scoop, “We started this industry with no support from anybody. We put resources (sourced from family and friends) together and started doing what we could until we got to where we are today. Till now, no bank or financial institution can support us because they don’t understand out industry. Meanwhile, individuals cannot fund major projects on their own.

“In other climes (such as America, India and Europe) where they do proper films, the project is done by a studio and that is why they spend billions of dollars. But over here, we still do it on our own and that’s why we do mostly low-budget movies, though we’re still trying with the little resources we have.

“Right now, we need to attract these big studios to come to Nigeria. I believe we don’t need government funding to grow the industry. It is usually the wrong people who pose as filmmakers and collect money from the government. They then use the money to build houses and buy cars, without shooting any movies. We just need the government to create an enabling environment, and help with subsidy on some of the things we use in shooting movies. That is when we would be able to shoot proper films.”

Downplaying claims that Nollywood is not united and that is why they are not able to attract the necessary support, Badmus said, “I don’t think there is any industry that is 100 per cent united. So far it is human beings, there will always be conflicts. However, I believe it is stupid to classify some Nigerian movies as English films. That is another area where we are missing it. They are Nigerian films, period. You can only call them English-speaking movies.”

Badmus also explained that though he sometimes played the role of a lover boy in movies, he is not a playboy in real life. “I only play the roles that I am given and I do it well. Sometimes, I tell the producers to give me tougher roles so I can show my versatility. In real life, I like women and men. But the truth is that women make up the bulk of our fans; so, one needs to open up and relate with them. However, people could mistake that to mean that one is a lover boy, but it’s not so,” he said.

Speaking on his current projects, the actor said, “I’m currently working on two of my movies and they will be released soon. The major challenge I faced in shooting those movies was funding.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]