Online comedians should stick to their niche —Woli Arole
Tofarati Ige

Comedian and actor, Oluwatoyin Bayegun, aka Woli Arole, has advised online comedians to stick to what they know how to do best so as not to go out of relevance. He said, “You can be an online comedian without being able to do stand-up comedy. However, there are also some stand-up comedians who are doing fine online as well. Different people have different niches that they occupy, and the audience knows this. The most important thing is that if you know you are good at online comedy, don’t bother yourself trying to do stand-up comedy as it may not work out. It is better to stick to what you know how to do best and keep making your money.”

The actor also stated that he actually started his career as a stand-up comedian and actor. “I didn’t crossover. I was a stand-up comedian before I started doing online skits. I had been anchoring events and performing at shows such as AY Live and Ali Baba’s Spontaneity,” he said.

Arole also faulted the belief that social media comedians had a short career span. “There is no job that one would do and wouldn’t need to reinvent oneself and be innovative. There are musicians that one used to hear before but who are nowhere to be found now; so it’s not just about online comedians.

“One’s ability to be constantly creative is what would determine how long one would last in the industry. It could be challenging trying to do new things but one way or the other, I always overcome them and move on,” he added.

Meanwhile, the comedian disagreed that his style of comedy was predictable. He said, “When you mention Woli Arole, there is something that comes to mind, and that is humour. But that doesn’t mean I cannot do more than that. I have been a master of ceremonies, actor and stand-up comedian. People are just getting to see more of me, and other sides will be revealed as time goes on.”

The entertainer also revealed that he was currently working on his next movie, and would be embarking on a stand-up comedy world tour soon.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]