On set, I’m disciplined, not strict ­­­—Antar Laniyan
Tofarati Ige

Veteran filmmaker, Antar Laniyan, has been described by many as a strict actor who doesn’t brook nonsense, especially when he is on set. However, he told Sunday Scoop that he just didn’t take his job for granted. He said, “I don’t joke with my job. I don’t go to locations to wine and dine. I go there to work and fight a ‘war’ that I must win. If I want to play, I would go to the beach and other relaxation centres to do that. But for me to leave my house to a location, I must make sure that whatever I do on that set would be what people want to see and commend me for doing a good job. That is why some people feel I am too strict, but in actual fact, I am just a disciplined actor.”

The Osogbo, Osun State-born thespian also believed that actors who often threw tantrums on social media were the untrained ones. He added, “My idea of being a celebrity is that you, firstly, you must be responsible and mind what you say. You shouldn’t react anyhow. Anybody can say anything to you but you don’t have to insult anybody. Meanwhile, when you look at the calibre of people that get involved in these social media dramas, you would realise that they are not core professionals. “Those who are well trained and have gone through the rough road to become what they are will not behave anyhow. They will not want to jeopardise all the years they spent in learning and becoming what they are today. That’s why you can never see people like Adebayo Salami (Oga Bello), Jide Kosoko or Tunde Kelani involved in things like that.”

On some of the changes he would like to see in the industry, Laniyan said, “I want us to have serious academies that would train actors. We should start doing things properly the way they are done on the global stage. Anybody coming into the industry would have to go to such academies to be taught the rudiments of the job.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]