I’m not promoting sexual immorality – Leo DaSilva
Tofarati Ige

During the week, former Big Brother Nigeria contestant, Leo DaSilva, advised singles to be sure of the sexuality of their partners before making any lifelong commitment. Many interpreted his admonition to mean that he was promoting promiscuity. Responding to the claims that he was blatantly advocating premarital sex, DaSilva said, “Sex is different from sexuality. A lot of people just read to respond, they don’t read to understand. However, some people actually understood the message and that was good enough for me. Those people who understood were actually educating the ones who didn’t get the point on my behalf.

“Meanwhile, it’s not like I’ve had any personal experience in that regard. I was just having a conversation with a friend. She had been dating her man for a couple of months but she was suspecting his sexuality because they didn’t really have a sexual life. When they eventually got intimate, she noticed that he wasn’t so responsive. Meanwhile, he had a male friend that he was very comfortable with and at that point, she knew that he wasn’t attracted to women. In this part of the world, we believe that all relationships should be heterosexual; so, some people succumb to societal pressure and get into relationships with the opposite sex even if they don’t want to. But in the reality of the world, not everybody is heterosexual. So, this type of discussion should come up more often. That was why I advised youths to know the sexuality of their partners before having any life-long commitments.”

Speaking on his current projects, DaSilva said, “Currently, I am running my investment company and I have invested in a tech company. They recently launched an app where customers can order cooking gas and have it delivered to them wherever they are. We also just got land to do beans and maize farming. I launched a foundation for my mum in March and I’m taking it a step further by building a creative centre in her honour. This will help to train internally displaced persons in Abuja because some of them have been relocated to that area.”

The former BBN contestant also stated that he once invested heavily in the entertainment industry. He said, “People don’t know that I was one of the biggest investors in the entertainment industry when I was younger. I have invested in artistes by managing them and paying for them to shoot videos. I also used to organise events in England. However, there is no real structure in the entertainment industry in the country. One has to put in a lot to be heard. If one is not starting from a solid foundation by being signed to a notable record label, one would end up spending double the amount of money than those who are signed. So, instead of doing that, I would rather put money into things that are tangible and less risky.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]