No issues between Cee-C and me –Princess, Ex-BBN housemate
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Former Big Brother Nigeria housemate, Princess Onyejekwe, recently called out actor and television presenter, Uti Nwachukwu, after he declared Cynthia Nwadiora, popularly known as Cee-C, the most successful housemate of BBN 2018.

Princess had on Thursday taken a swipe at Uti through a comment posted on her Instagram page. She said, “I felt that as a former housemate, he should know better than to make a comparison. It’s just unnecessary.

“Many housemates have gone through a phase of depression, insecurity, anger and regret. They have also moved past it and got stronger. You can’t come and start this unspoken trivia now. It’s not cool.”

While contacted over the matter by Saturday Beats, Princess said that she was not trying to court controversy but only interested in putting things right.

She said, “Different people can read a particular meaning to an issue. What I wrote has nothing to do with Cynthia; it would be different if he (Uti) was not a former housemate.

“If it was a random celebrity talking; I wouldn’t mind because the person hasn’t experienced it.

“For someone that has been to the BBN house to openly put an outright comparison amongst people in the same cadre is not the best choice of words.

“He should have praised her without using words that would make others seem not at par.

“Cynthia is doing great and I am doing great and there is no hate. However, somehow, the whole thing escalated; it has nothing to do with me hating Cynthia’s success; I feel he should have done better.

“Even when Forbes brings out a list of successful people; they rank it in their own established scale and rank their net worth to how much they know about them, it doesn’t mean that some people are not richer than others.

“Hate is not the motive here; I felt he should have known better; it could start a crisis, riots are instigated by what people say.

“It is my opinion. I am saying no one should put a yardstick to success. It is just like putting one religion ahead of another. I feel it is unnecessary.”

Speaking further, Cee-C noted that unlike some of her colleagues, who had gone into acting; she decided not to follow the same path because she wanted to gain some financial stability.

She said, “I was able to set up my beauty brand after the experience in the BBN house, I am proud of myself for achieving that feat.

“Interestingly, people think I wouldn’t be at my store because I am a BBN star. I am always there because that is where my income comes from.

“I have thought about acting but I don’t like the idea of being broke or not having my financial sanity, so I decided to establish something that I can make returns from before chasing a career in acting.

“I am a businesswoman; I need a structure that provides for me before chasing being in the spotlight.”

Comparing her experience in the BBN house to child delivery, the young lady noted that she dealt with insecurity and self-esteem issues after she left the reality show.

She continued, “I believe everyone in life has expectations but we have different phases of growth.

“I had my fair share of criticisms; reality shows like Big Brother puts you in a confined environment which naturally changes things; it is not something that can be explained to someone; it is just like childbirth. Some people felt I should have done things in a particular way.

“I had insecurity and self-esteem issues at some point; when in the Big Brother house; you go in and you don’t know what might happen when you come out.

“It is difficult and emotionally draining; you need a high level of counsel to go through that.

“I had to deal with these emotions myself and get past it. Being a housemate takes a toll on your emotional quotient. I was able to overcome that through self-discovery, reflection and meditation.

“I had to read more books and speak to experienced people to get over it. It was tough but the beauty is that you come out stronger.

“I don’t think anyone can outshine me; there is a lot of space for everyone to be individually great without competition; I don’t have that mindset.”

Debunking rumours that she had to go under the knife to get a perfect body; Princess told Saturday Beats that such talks were not worth her time.

She said, “Nobody has really come out to ask me what I did with my body and until they come out to do that, I don’t feel the need to grant anyone a response.

“I didn’t do anything to endanger other species on earth, whatever I did was with me. They are rumours and it is fine; that is what happens when you are in the spotlight.”

Reacting to the matter, Uti, in a comment on his Instagram page, said, “To those offended, calm your nerves. No harm meant.

“When you are proud of someone, you will give all the accolades you can, especially when you remember the bashing you went through for your support.

“So, let me rephrase and edit: CEE-C is one of the most successful housemates of BBNaija 2018.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]