Entertainers must show understanding to make their marriage work – Psalmos
Tofarati Ige

Gospel singer, Psalmos, is married to her producer and she says it makes her marital experience even easier. Explaining what sustains their union, she said, “It varies. For some, it works, and for others, it doesn’t. However, it all boils down to understanding. We might be doing the same thing and still not understand each other. I always say that it is easier for me as I’m married to my producer. As an artiste, who is married to a producer, I need to understand the nature of his job, because I am not the only one he works with. He also needs to understand my job because sometimes, I may go out and come back home late. We always stand in the gap for each other. However, most of the times, we are together; so, it makes it a lot easier. For some couples in the entertainment industry, there is the issue of intimidation because one of them might be bigger than the other. Most times, when it is the woman that is at the top, the man might get intimidated. But the reality is that the person on top today may not be there tomorrow, and the tables can change at any time. Those things could kill a home.”

Though she is mostly together with her husband, Psalmos stated that they never got tired of each other. “When we are working together, we see it as ministry. We don’t do any lovey-dovey things on stage, and don’t mix business with pleasure. I believe that the more time a couple spends together, the more they love themselves,” she said.

Speaking on her current projects, Psalmos said, “I just released a song titled, K’osoba bi re, featuring Tope Alabi. The song came about when I thought about all God had done for me and I came to the realisation that there is no king like Him. After recording the song, I sent it to Tope Alabi, and she said it was a great song but it had no specific message. She understood what I was trying to say with the song but said if I released it that way, people might not understand the message. So, we worked on it together and came about with another version. I will also be releasing another single anytime soon.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]