Some producers only give roles to their caucuses’ members – Taiwo Gasper
Actor and model, Taiwo Gasper, speaks to JOY MARCUS about some of the challenges he faces in the industry

What stirred your interest in acting?

I started as a model when I was in the university and I have done quite a number of television commercials and billboard projects. On a particular project for a telco, some directors came from London and on the set, they kept saying I was a good actor and I reminded them of working with Will Smith. That was when it dawned on me that I had it in me; so, I decided to give it a try. After that commercial in 2007, I started going for auditions. There were times I would go for about 10 auditions and I would get six gigs. So, I pushed the interest or desire further.

What were some of the challenges you faced in the industry having started out early?

There are caucuses in the industry. Many believe that you have to join their caucus for you to be known. If you don’t join such caucuses, they would not promote your face. Initially, I didn’t understand their definition of caucus because I just wanted to do my thing and be seen. There are some producers and directors in the industry who believe that you have to pay homage to them. For me, it was a big challenge, and it still is. There was a time a big production manager called me for a big project but after some hours, he called back to tell me that I couldn’t shoot the project. I asked him why and he told me not to worry that something was going on. I knew what was going on; so, I said to God that if the job was meant for me, I would get it. Later, I learnt that I wasn’t included in the project because I wasn’t in a certain caucus that the producers of the project belonged to. Also, there is a set of people who believe that if you are not Igbo, they can’t work with you.

How were you able to surmount these challenges?

I basically do my best and leave the rest to God. There are some things that are beyond my understanding and I try so much not to be desperate. I decided to get involved in other activities that bring in money and keep me happy. Rather than working hard and moving at a faster pace that I would have loved to, it is now a step by step process ordained by God. I now find more passion in other things that give me joy. When it is time for me to be at the top, I know that God would get me there. My faith has made me understand that I don’t need to fight for anything.

Has there been any role that you would love to play but have not had the opportunity to?

I have played a bad boy and a psychopath but I will like to act as someone who has a dual personality – someone who is bi-polar because I believe it would be challenging.

How do you feel when shooting a kissing scene?

I usually tell people that when you kiss on set, it requires a lot of emotions. Getting into that emotion on set requires someone that is deep because you have to understand that the kissing wouldn’t go beyond that. Kissing your girlfriend and your wife is for real and it has to resonate with someone who is very deep. Meanwhile, acting and being a professional requires a lot of discipline. However, some people don’t understand that and that is why each time they play a character, they find it difficult to snap out of it. For you to play certain characters well and snap out of it quickly, you need to be spiritually deep.

These days, there seem to be lots of pornography in Nollywood. What is your opinion on this?

For me, I can’t do such a move because it doesn’t resonate with me and my beliefs. I don’t think one needs to show pornographic images to express oneself as a storyteller. There is a way we can play it down because our culture is what makes us unique. We don’t have to bring western ways into our culture. Even if we need to tell stories about sex, we should play it down.

What are some of the notable movies you have featured in?

I have featured in One Crazy Week, Finding Mr Right, Castle and Castle, Pamper Me for Love, Tinsel, Hush and Chairman.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]