People once referred to me as daddy’s ‘handbag’ –Yul Edochie
Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Nollywood actor, Yul Edochie, recently shared a post to emphasise his position in the family by uploading a photograph of his elder brothers, pointing out that many people were not aware that he was the last child of veteran actor, Pete Edochie.

In a chat with Saturday Beats, the younger Edochie noted that even though he was the baby of the house, he was never pampered.

He said, “A lot of people think I am the only child probably because I am the most popular one and it happens often; they keep asking the same question.

“I just felt I should state it that I’m the last child of my father. Even as the last child, I was treated like every other child; maybe I got some special treatment as the last child.

“A lot of people used to refer to me as my father’s handbag. I learnt a lot from my elder brothers and when I messed up, they dealt with me.

“We grew up like soldiers, I wasn’t treated specially. My parents were very strict; they didn’t spare me.

“There are some qualities I would forever cherish that I got from my parents like respect and being prayerful.

“It is not easy to raise five boys; they are all graduates. We are all doing well in our respective fields; I learnt a lot from them.”

Edochie, who was recently involved in a fatal motor accident, appreciated God for sparing his life, adding that the incident has taught me him many valuable lessons.

READ ALSO: There is urgent need to improve music lyrics–Obey-Fabiyi, Akinola

“I was driving alone; I was close to Ore and the car swerved to the left and hit a culvert and went upside down.

“I believe it is a miracle; God still wants me around. It taught me that life is very short. I have been driving for over 18 years and never knew I was going to have an accident that day.

“People have been involved in such situations and lost their lives but I only came out with little scratches. It was God’s grace at work.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]