Ferrari begs for support to undergo surgery
Tofarati Ige

[email protected]

08068792241 (SMS only)

Budding actress, filmmaker, author and dancer, Mary Adufe, aka Sisi Ferrari, was doing well in her career until she was struck down by an illness. She was diagnosed with fibroids sometime ago and underwent a surgery. However, whatever relief she felt then was only temporary as she developed complications that made her stomach to continue growing bigger. She now needs another surgery to restore her health.

Ferrari, who has produced two movies, maintained that she was ‘experimented’ upon at the hospital where the first surgery was carried out. “People that had fibroids that were far bigger than mine have forgotten that they even did surgery. But my health is becoming worse. I believe they used me as an experiment in the hospital I went to. They just cut me heartlessly,” she stated.

In an emotional plea, Sisi Ferrari appealed to Nigerians for help. She said, “Please, tell Nigerians to have mercy on me. I’m dying in pain. I need Nigerians to come to my aid before it’s too late. People are not helping and I don’t want a situation whereby when I’m no more, they would then surround my mum with tears. It shouldn’t be until I give up (the ghost) before people start running around to pay for coffin and other funeral expenses. I am not a lazy person but all my resources have been consumed by this illness.”

The actress stated that living had practically become a torture. “I am in so much pain and I no longer sleep at night. The analgesic I take only relieves the pain for some time before it starts again,” she added.

On whether she belongs to any association in the movie industry, Ferrari said, “The Theatre Arts and Motion Pictures Practitioners Association of Nigeria was formed around the time that I lost my dad. I was destabilised then and couldn’t attend the association’s meetings.

“After I underwent the first surgery, I was short of funds, so I asked people in the industry for help but only Yinka Quadri and Adebayo Salami (Oga Bello) came to my aid. The rest insulted me because they felt they were stars. If I didn’t have faith in God, sadness may have led me to the grave. Many people are needlessly proud in the industry, but I wouldn’t mention names.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]