Why I mention Dangote, Otedola in my songs – Teni
Olajide Samuel

Unarguably one of the biggest entertainers in the country at the moment, Teni Apata, popularly known as Teni the entertainer, is one singer who often mentions the names of prominent people in her songs.

In the past, Teni had mentioned the names of business tycoons such as Aliko Dangote and Femi Otedola in her songs, which made the songs more popular and acceptable.

In an encounter with Sunday Scoop, the award-winning singer explained why she often called people’s names in her music. “I grew up being exposed to a lot of culture and one essential part of that is praise-singing people. I decided to incorporate that practice into my songs so that people could relate more with them,” she said.

Teni, who clinched four awards at the recently held Headies, stated that winning awards and touring 35 cities had been the high points of 2019 for her so far. She added, “God has just been great. From the BET to MTV EMA, getting endorsements, and touring over 35 cities across the world and seeing thousands of beautiful people who came out to see me, it has been nothing but high points all through the year.”

Contrary to what many believe that Teni’s Billionaire EP is all about the brazen pursuit of money, the plump singer said the title song and EP were centred on encouraging people to live their best lives. She stated, “This project basically encourages people to lead their best lives, achieve their dreams and generally enjoy what life has to offer. No doubt, life has its challenges, but sometimes, one just needs to take a break and enjoy it.”

READ ALSO: Claim that Ubi Franklin slapped me wasn’t publicity stunt – Ominiaho

On the misconceptions people have about her, the cheerful singer said, “I don’t really know the misconceptions that people have about me but I try to be myself at all times. Being real is the best thing one can do in this world.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]