Nigeria is in state of emergency– Falz
Olajide Samuel

Singer, Folarin Falana, aka Falz, has said that Nigeria is in a state of emergency, and something has to be done urgently to salvage the country from destruction.

The This is Nigeria rapper made this known while speaking during the week at a round table discussion on governance and nation building tagged, ‘Start the Conversation’. The event was hosted by entertainment company, Chocolate City, in collaboration with the Open Society Initiative for West Africa.

Speaking on the state of the nation, Falz said, “We are at a critical point in Nigeria– it is an emergency. People are being killed daily in different parts of the country and we don’t seem to care. Boko Haram is still carrying out attacks and you are telling me the Federal Government cannot find an answer. It is quite ridiculous and pretentious of us to act like things are not as critical as they currently are. I think it’s an emergency and it’s about to explode in our faces.”

Falana also bemoaned the dearth of infrastructure in the country. “I have been to many developed countries and I have observed three things at work– infrastructure, healthcare and education. But when I return home, I see the opposite. I just can’t understand why we haven’t got it right as a nation; yet, we are so comfortable. We are not doing anything,” he stated.

On what drives him to speak on social issues, the Karishika rapper said, “A friend of mine often says that every Nigerian is one sickness away from poverty. Take a look at the high rate of maternal deaths in the country– we cannot even deliver children safely. I genuinely care about the state of affairs of this country. I don’t want it to explode in my own face too. That is why I do what I do– just because of empathy.”

Other celebrities in attendance were Ruggedman, Kate Henshaw, Williams Uchemba, Bez, Waje, and Ill Bliss, among others.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]