Claim that Ubi Franklin slapped me wasn’t publicity stunt – Ominiaho
Mobola Sadiq

Comedian, Ominiaho, has insisted that his claim that Ubi Franklin slapped him was not a publicity stunt. The comedian had alleged that Franklin slapped him at an event because he cracked a joke about the Made Men Music Group boss, which the latter was not pleased with.

But shortly after, Ominiaho claimed that he had made peace with Franklin, and also announced his forthcoming show. This led many to believe that the comedian was just trying to promote his show all along.

However, in a chat with Sunday Scoop, the comedian said, “Who enjoys being slapped? Anyway, I’m all about my show (now), and that’s my focus. I always like to look at the bigger picture in every situation. I can’t kill anybody because I had a fight with one person. I can assure you that it wasn’t a publicity stunt, but it is now publicity.”

Ominiaho also maintained that Franklin had apologised to him. “Ubi has called me and apologised for his actions. I have also forgiven him because he is my brother. I decided to let everything go and I’m focusing more on my show than the negative incident,” he stated.

Though he stated that he didn’t have any prior ‘beef’ with Franklin, Ominiaho said he had known the latter for a long time. He stated, “I have known Ubi for a while. The first time I met him was in 2009 when Iyanya introduced him to me.

“However, we were not friends because we didn’t see each other often. It was only when we met at events that we exchanged pleasantries.”

The comedian also claimed that Franklin wasn’t even there when he made the joke. He added, “He (Ubi Franklin) wasn’t there when I told the joke. It was someone that misinterpreted what I said to him. But when I told the joke to Ubi myself, he felt really bad that he took action without knowing what I actually said. But it’s okay now; things like that happen sometimes. Acapella (the host of the show where the incident occurred) has also apologised for what happened.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]