I used to dance at burials –MC Galaxy
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Sekem’ crooner, Innocent Udeme Udofot, popularly known as MC Galaxy has said he prefers music to comedy because the former is more lucrative than the latter. He said this in a recent interview with Saturday Beats. He said, “I used to be a comedian and a dancer; I used to dance everywhere, at burials, and even in the market. I have been doing the ‘Sekem’ dance at comedy clubs before I produced the song.

“I would still explore comedy by going into acting but I won’t do stand-up comedy again. Music pays me better than comedy. I have not really had challenges in my musical career; my first song was a hit. My advice to young artists is that they should remain loyal to their helpers. Disloyalty is really affecting the up-and-coming artistes. They shouldn’t listen to other people’s opinions. None of them has ever been disloyal to me though,” he told Saturday Beats.

Galaxy, who recently gifted a car to Tspize, the producer of his first hit song, noted that he gave him the car because he deserved it. He also stressed that he didn’t share the news of his gesture to trend.

“The producer of the song is very understanding and patient; that was why I gave him a car recently. In a bid to surprise him, I tricked him to meet me somewhere giving the impression that I wanted to give him some money; but I dazzled him with a car gift instead.

“I can remember how I met him at the club and told him I would like him to produce my song. He is very humble, he gave me his contact details and that was how we met and started five years ago. He told me to come with N50,000 but I was only able to raise N40,000. I explained to him that was all I had on me.

“After I gave him the car, he told me that he could remember when I told him I was going to buy him a car, the day we were producing the song. Contrary to what some people are saying, I didn’t share the news to trend. Tspize was even the first person to post a picture of the car on his page,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]