I have seven years before getting married – BBN Khloe
Tofarati Ige

Big Brother Nigeria alumnus, Khloe, has said she doesn’t see anything wrong in being a single mother. In a chat with Sunday Scoop, she said, “I’m not looking forward to having kids anytime soon. I still have about seven years before I settle down. Everything has to be in order. I don’t want to bring kids into the world and make them suffer. I want to be a good mother. My career is right in front of me and it needs my attention. However, God’s time is the best. I could have a kid next year; you never can tell.

“I wouldn’t blame women who have opted to become single mothers and it’s something I can do, so far I have peace and happiness. People don’t understand that marriage is not the ultimate in life. Some people are married but they are dying inside. A family doesn’t necessarily have to consist of a father, mother and children; it could just be a mother and her kids.”

Refusing to comment on her recent spat with an Uber driver whom she had accused of being rude to her, Khloe said, “Whenever I do positive things, nobody says anything. But if it’s something negative, it goes viral. It makes me feel bad that people cannot just appreciate something good. Nobody called me when I launched my charity, and nobody commends me when I look good in pictures. But people would rush to call me when something is bad and I don’t feel comfortable with that. I don’t want any negative vibes. Other people might want to milk negative publicity to trend but I am not interested in that.”

The former BBN contestant also explained why she started a charity for children. “It is something I had been doing before; I just decided to make it official now. So far, I have been doing everything from my own pocket. I just love to make kids happy and help less privileged children enjoy what their parents cannot provide for them,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]