I’ve made movies bigger than Yemi my Lover – Ayebo
Tofarati Ige

The name, Yemi Ayebo, may not ring a bell, but Yemi my Lover, surely does. Ayebo is the actor behind the popular movie but it seems his fame has not been able to transcend that production. However, he told Sunday Scoop that he had done other movies that were better than Yemi my Lover. He said, “It was Yemi my Lover that made me popular, and that’s how I got my stage name. Even if I make movies that are more interesting, they may not be as popular as the one from which I derived my stage name. As a matter of fact, I have made movies that are better than Yemi my Lover. For you to know how powerful that name is, many of the contemporary music artistes such as Olamide and DJ Cuppy have sang about it.”

On his current projects, Ajebo said, “I have a project that I’m working on but it’s on hold because of financial challenges.”

The entertainer also explained why he isn’t often seen in movies these days. He said, “Many of my colleagues think I’m not a commercial artiste, but I’m telling them not to see me as just a movie producer. I am also a commercial actor. Ever since I started speaking out about this, there have been changes but not much. They now call me for jobs but things can be better.”

On why there was that perception of him, Ayebo said, “In those days, hardly would you see an actor such as Ade Afolayan (Ade Love) in every movie. He usually only featured in his own productions. Because of that, people perceived him as not been a commercial artiste. Someone like Kunle Afolayan is also seen in that light. He is a producer and director, and many people don’t see him as a commercial actor. As for me, I am a producer, director, singer, dancer and actor. I am a born artiste and there is no role I cannot play.”

Ajebo believed he could easily connect with the new generation of movie viewers. “There’s nothing stopping me from connecting with the new generation. There is no retirement for true actors; we do it till our last days. As far as I’m concerned, we’re all one in the industry. There’s nothing like young and old generation actors. Besides, many of these young actors don’t even have the name recognition of older artistes. I was at an event recently in Abuja and you needed to have seen how excited the guests were to see me,” he added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]