My torch is a covenant I made with God – Zaaki Azzay
Popular singer, Zaaki Azzay, speaks to JOY MARCUS about his music career and other issues

What can you remember about the time you started music?

When I started doing music, there was no acceptance of Nigerian music. Western music was in vogue and to get people to listen to Nigerian music was a herculean task because most radio stations played mostly western music and little Nigerian songs. I was given my first opportunity in the industry by a lady called Tolu Gaye. She was a manager with EMI Music at that time. Before then, I had gone to a lot of recording companies but they never accepted me because I was doing hip hop songs. At that time, the local Nigerian musicians were doing only reggae and dancehall songs. One day, I became frustrated after being rejected at several recording companies. I went to EMI Music and sat on the floor outside the gate. While I was sitting on the floor, Tolu saw me and said I should come in. Then, she listened to all my songs, including a rap ‘cover’ of Onyeka Owenu’s song. She liked the songs and spoke to the company on my behalf. Though it took a while to convince the company to give me a recording deal, she made it happen.

How would you compare the music industry now with when you started?

It’s obvious there is a lot of improvement. Nigeria is the future of world music. Presently, Nigeria is the headquarters of music in the whole of Africa. We can compete very well with the western world when it comes to music. The only thing drawing us a little backwards now is government assistance. There is no infrastructure. Piracy has become the order of the day. There are no laws; that is why people just steal other people’s intellectual properties.

Aside from all these hiccups, the Nigerian music industry has come of age. We now travel far and wide and our music is accepted even in counties where they don’t speak English. I was in Paris sometime last year and they were playing Nigerian music on the radio. I was surprised to see the French driver, whose was driving me, enjoying it.

It’s been a while since we heard from you. What have you been up to?

Well, I have been doing a lot of things. I have a television programme, All True Nigerians, and I organise the True Nigerian Awards. The award is for Nigerians who are role models and who went from nobody to somebody. For me, it is not about money or fame. I am just trying to give back to society. I just feel that everybody must contribute to the Federal Republic of Nigeria. So, the award is my own way of celebrating Nigerians who are doing well so that these young ones, who are into Internet fraud or cultism, can be encouraged to live correctly. Also, I have been travelling within and outside the country doing music. In fact, I am releasing my new song titled, Notice, on social media soon and the video would follow. I just delayed it for two years but it won’t happen again.

With the new trends in the music industry, do you think your kind of music will still be accepted?

When they ask me such question, I always tell people that Coca-Cola has been there before I was born and it has not changed. The only thing that changes is the design of the bottle. Music is about; so, I will keep repackaging but I will not change my style. I have not heard anybody in Nigeria singing like me yet. I have my own niche and there is enough space for everyone. I am not threatened by anyone; rather I am very happy because it challenges me to want to do more.

Do you still take your torch everywhere?

Yes, I still do. The torch is not a style or trademark. It was a covenant I made with God when I was starting music. Like I said, at the time I started, there was no hip hop music and it seemed like I wouldn’t succeed because, at that time, Nigerians were listening to Blackky, Majek Fashek and Daniel Wilson, who were singing reggae and ragga. I was praying to God when I got that break and He gave me the opportunity to record a song. So, while I was praying to God for my music to be accepted, I got hold of a torch in the studio which I used to promise Him that I will never do vulgar songs or anything evil.

Speaking of Internet fraudsters, what’s your take on the argument that the money they collect from westerners is a payback for slavery?

There is no way you can justify a sin. Even God Almighty said vengeance is mine. Once you commit a crime, there is no justification for it. You can’t decide to rape someone because she had been taking you for granted.

What is your take on artistes who collect money from ‘Yahoo boys’ to boost their careers?

I am not in support of it but if you are an artiste, who has an event where people spray you money and give you gifts, it is difficult to know the kind of jobs they do. It is not possible to ask everyone you meet what the source of their money is. However, I can never support ‘Yahoo Yahoo’. If you are an artiste, who signed to an Internet fraudster’s record label, eventually you will become one whether you like it or not. Also, when they arrest the person, they will apprehend you too.

What can you say about the lyrics of some songs which promote drugs, sex and other social vices?

Songs about breasts, butts and sex are as a result of major western influence. I have never done any song like that. As a musician, if you want to be remembered as a hero, then you should do songs that will outlive you. There is no musician in the world who has done any vulgar songs and is remembered as a hero. As an artiste, when you sing, you are already choosing your destiny. Whatever your lyrics are saying will make people know your potential. It is so sad that nowadays, you can’t watch television with your little children. On the other hand, you can’t even blame the artistes because when they do good songs, they aren’t well recognised. You will be shocked that on a programme about child abuse, the organisers will invite an artiste who sings vulgar songs, just because he or she is famous. Also, an artiste who has tried singing good songs but doesn’t succeed will be forced to sing vulgar songs because he has to survive. So it is a two-way thing. The only solution to this problem is the government realising that the entertainment industry can improve the GDP of Nigeria drastically. In Nigeria, people steal other people’s lyrics and nothing happens, but in western countries, that cannot happen. Even America, which we are copying, not all songs are played on television or radio there. They usually have two versions of songs – uncensored, and those for radio and television. It has become so bad that people, who are doing illegal business, now use music as a cover. The government really has a lot to do in the entertainment industry for things to change.

Do you think some of these new artistes need voice training?

Yes, they do. Sometimes, when I hear them sing, I become ashamed of being an artiste. It is really sad. Also, the market is that bad now that people just pay a lot of money to buy airtime, then the stations keep playing their bad music and before you know it, you are singing it. However, because you are singing it doesn’t mean that it is good. However, there are also a lot of good ones; just like we have good doctors and quacks.

What is your take on artistes who pay people to write songs for them?

That is fantastic. That way, you provide jobs and the money circulates. Any artiste that is smart will get someone to write songs for them if they can’t do it on their own. There was a particular artiste who was very famous back in the days who had been trying to make a hit song but it was not working. As an artiste, you don’t have to write every song. I am one of the first artistes who had a music studio. The name of the studio then was Kakaki Music Studio. A lot of artistes used to come there and I produced for them but now, someone produced the new song I am about to release. Music is big; so, you have to allow other ideas. That way, it will be easy for you and you won’t sound monotonous. I have not got to that level because I have so many songs that I have written over the years which I will just upgrade. However, if I ever find myself in a situation where I don’t have songs, I will just look for someone who will write me a good song.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]