I had a strange feeling before my mum died –Tayo Sobola
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Actor and producer, Tayo Sobola, popularly known as Sotayogaga, was thrown into a mournful mood last month after she lost her mum. In an interview with Saturday Beats, she revealed that before she heard the news of her mother’s death, she had a weird feeling.

“My mum was everything to me; she was my confidant, even though we fought a lot. I was filming when I heard the news of her death, but prior to that time, I had a weird feeling and I was crying; people thought I was acting. I was extremely cold and I was standing by my car before I received the call from my sister, telling me my mum was gone. I drove all the way to her house by myself.

“I am happy I had the time to discuss a lot of things with her before she passed on. I didn’t think there was any need to delay the final burial date because it wasn’t like we were trying to raise money to do it. I lost my dad in 2005 and till date, I still cry over that. Though few days have passed, I still don’t want to believe that my mum is gone. I have buried a couple of people in my life but I still ask myself if she is actually dead. Even during the burial, I still couldn’t believe she was dead. I just try to console myself to stay strong,” she told Saturday Beats.

Asked about some of the values her mum instilled in her as a young girl, she noted that her mum taught her to always mind her business and avoid living a fake life.

“Many people think I am a strict person; the truth is that was how I used to look at my mum before she died. She built and shaped me to the person I am today. My mum taught me to believe in myself, to be content and stay in my lane. She also taught me to forgive easily, and avoid living a fake life. I was trained to be careful with the people around me. My mother never allowed us to visit people, I will always live with what she impacted in me,” she added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]