Do well if you want a successful spouse –Deyemi Okanlawon
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

One can assume that Nigerian actor, Deyemi Okanlawon, is currently proud of himself as he is on honeymoon with his wife.

He took to his Instagram page during the week to reveal that he was heading to Paris with his wife for their honeymoon.

While some couples opt to have their honeymoon shortly after their wedding, it took the actor about six years before he could fulfil the promise he made to his wife that they would have their honeymoon in Paris, France.

With a picture showing the actor and his wife kissing in front of the Louvre Museum in Paris; Okanlawon said, “Wait o… you really thought I went to the city of love alone? After six years and two kids, I finally had enough money set aside to fulfil that honeymoon promise! As per woman wey get too much sense, she insisted on contributing but I no gree so she used her money to fix stuff at home (sic).”

In a recent chat with Saturday Beats, the actor stated that the main reason why divorces and disunity are rampant in homes is that the couples involved may have too much love for money. He said, “It seems to me that nowadays, the inordinate affection for money is one of the greatest causes of issues and break-up in marriage. Men and women should understand the place of money and not turn it into a god that determines the time spent with their spouse or the peace in their household. Be progressive, productive and financially accountable – talk about your finances, as well as your plans to make, spend and save or invest money.”

He further gave his two cents on marriage based on his experience over the past six years. “Before you decide to get married, first become the person you want to marry. If you want a godly person, be a godly person; if you want a successful person, be a successful person. The only time this principle will not work is if you want to marry a beautiful person and you are not beautiful; however, remember that inner beauty is what really counts.

“Write down these traits. Be detailed and specific; for example, don’t just write a man/woman who loves God, write what he/she does daily that shows love for God. Do the same for every trait. Also, try not to take society’s expectations of spousal roles into your marriage, be prepared to find what works for you and find someone who is open-minded too,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]