Comedy movies not enough for Nigeria’s population –Victor Osuagwu
Tofarati Ige

It has been said in some quarters that there are too many comedy movies in the movie industry, with many of them rated as substandard. However, actor, Victor Osuagwu, disagrees with that insinuation. He told Sunday Scoop, “I don’t agree that there are too many comedy movies in the industry and that they all have the same themes. You need to understand that these ideas emanate from different quarters. We have over 170 million people in the country; so, as a matter of fact, I feel that we don’t even have enough comedy movies commensurate with our population. On the movies being below standard, the resources put into the production of a film determine how it would look like in the end. For example, when someone like AY and major marketers make movies, they are usually nice because they have enough funds to pump into the projects. However, I will also admit that there is an issue with standard because many of these movies are made with personal funds. We are not in a country where the government supports the film industry; so, that’s a major problem. Some people actually have good ideas but because they don’t have enough finance, they have to limit their scope and work according to their budgets.”

Osuagwu also scored President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration low in the area of supporting Nollywood. He said, “The present administration has never supported the entertainment industry, unlike the (Goodluck) Jonathan’s government. Jonathan was so supportive to Nollywood. I recall that several of us travelled out of the country for training to improve on our craft. I believe we will get it right if we get support from the government and corporate sector.

On whether he had ever been disrespected based on the comic roles he plays in movies, Osuagwu said, “I have never experienced such. My work paves the way for me and it has opened a lot of doors and windows for me. Yes, people may joke with one based on some of the jobs one has done but that is part of entertainment.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]