Film industry guilds weren’t established for members’ welfare – Kunle Bamtefa
Veteran actor, Kunle Bamtefa, speaks to KORE OGIDAN about his experience in the movie industry

How would you rate the growth of the Nigerian movie industry over the years?

The growth has been steady and people are working really hard. People are getting bolder and are trying many new things that weren’t dared a few years back. However, it could do with a bit more seriousness and commitment. I believe you need people who are experts in certain fields to do what they should do without putting all the burden on one person. People are churning out jobs and the more one practises, the better one becomes in one’s art.

Do you think the members of the older generation haven’t upgraded their skills because they are comfortable with their knowledge?

I don’t believe it’s a case of people thinking they know everything. New things emerge daily and you need to constantly upgrade and get more knowledge if you want to stay relevant. Anyone who believes they know everything will remain stagnant. When we moved to digital from celluloid, Tunde Kelani was one of the first set of people to invest in IT and was seeking for new ways to do things in a cheaper way. That’s an example of evolution. I don’t think the problem is that they don’t want to upgrade because they think they know it all, I think it is because they aren’t called for jobs and people don’t believe in them anymore. Some of them (who mingle with the new generation) still get jobs though. Some of the new generation too believe they can’t afford their fees because of how seasoned they are; so, they’d rather call their mates who are more interested in being known for their craft than being paid exorbitantly. The young ones are getting more done than the old ones. This is because they have more access to money. At the end of the day, it is business and you’d rather call people who won’t cost you much but would get the job done. We did the same thing while growing up; so, I won’t begrudge anyone. I remember while in the university, we could get paid N200. We took it as a learning process to work and build our portfolios.

Tell us about your journey in the movie industry.

At the University of Ibadan, I had three majors – dance, acting and directing for television and stage. I did my youth service in NTA Jos, Plateau State, where I produced and directed programmes. Before that, I had worked in a television station during holidays. My career actually started in Radio Nigeria, where I worked as a studio manager before getting into the university. When I left Jos, I was immediately absorbed into NTA 10. I created a comedy programme titled, Sura the Tailor, which I wrote, produced and directed sometime between 1983 and 1984. I’m lucky that my passion is my job. I’m doing what I love and getting paid for it.

What’s been your overall experience in the film industry?

It has been varied and I’ve worked with many people. We started when movies weren’t very popular and there weren’t many films being done. I started my acting career on stage and before the advent of the National Troupe of Nigeria, we had the opportunity to represent Nigeria at festivals all over the world. I’m proud to have done that for Nigeria. The best feeling one could get was being on stage but when there weren’t many stage productions, one had to retrain for film and television. Although we had learnt that in school, getting the practical experience was important. I’ve had experiences with people who have done things to me, making me never want to be on the same production as them. I’ve also had experiences with people who have treated me well and who I’ve had great relationships with.

Do you find it easier to interpret roles in Yoruba or English?

As a trained actor, I can work anywhere. It’s important for your script to move me; that’s the only way I’d be interested in working with you. The Yoruba industry is different, though I’m not fully part of it. I know that some of them are a bit timid and afraid of asking me to come on their projects, perhaps for the fear of what I would charge. The few I’ve worked with usually plead to have me accept what they can afford. I’m a Yoruba man and if I can’t help the industry, why am I in it? However, they prefer their own group of actors. More so, the way they operate is different. It’s like a cooperative society there and that’s why you see most of them producing their own movies. I don’t know if it still runs that way though.

My Yoruba is very good and the way one is brought up matters. By virtue of my training in the university, English is the more acceptable language which you can really understand. Yoruba still interferes and one tries to strike a balance between both. If the locale of the story is within the Yoruba culture, one is more comfortable with it because of the level of proximity. If it is a different culture, you need to learn and get someone to put you through on how to interpret it. There are many things you can’t take for granted when interpreting roles.

You are known for being a comical actor. Is that your true personality?

It’s unfortunate because I’ve had to correct some people who call me a comedian. I’m an actor and a well-trained one at that. It just happens that many of the jobs I get are on the comedy side. Because I played Chief Fuji in Fuji House of Commotion for a long time, people have in some way stereotyped me but I’ve tried to break it by doing other serious drama that people were not used to.

What’s your take on the perceived poor structure of compensation for actors in the industry?

I don’t belong to any guild in the industry. I didn’t join the guilds in the beginning because I saw it as an opportunity for young people who wanted to sit with the government. It wasn’t as if people were really keen on the welfare of members who paid their dues. Many things were laid on the wrong foundation to begin with. People just want to be known quickly and hobnob with the government. You can’t say you are speaking for your association without putting something aside for the members in case of emergencies. When things happen, they then begin to beg the masses for donations. If I’m going to help, I should see what you have already done to help the people you claim you are leading. The members could be told that out of their yearly dues, a percentage would be taken out for themselves in the case of emergencies. Why should one pay subscription to any association if one’s welfare won’t be taken care of? At the end of the day, you are on your own.

What do you think about how the people portray Nigeria?

Our people don’t help us at all. Now, we don’t know what is fake news and what is real. It is the way you present yourself to the outside world that they’d know you. It’s not about censorship but there are some things that should be kept within the nation. I was in Los Angeles, California, in 1984, and there was a light aircraft that landed on the highway. The coverage was restricted to local media in the state. When I came back to Nigeria and asked if anyone had heard about the incident, no one had a clue what I was speaking of. That’s how to curb the media from creating a bad image for your country. I’m not saying the truth shouldn’t be told but if what you are saying will hurt more people, it is better to contain it. This country is bigger than all of us and it is all we have. The portrayal has not been very good.

What’s a typical day like for you?

When I’m working, my call time is about 8am. I live on the Island; so, I leave home to get to work before 6am. When I’m done working, I go back home – but that’s after I’d have had dinner and hung out with my friends. I also use the opportunity to wait out traffic.

On the days I’m not working, I still wake up at 5am, which is when my alarm goes off. When I get up, I relax, drink tea and read my Bible. I don’t leave home before 2pm if I have to go out at all. If I don’t have to go out, I could just stay in. I could also go out to the club I’m a member of to relax.

I watch football a lot and I’m a big fan of Arsenal.

How do you like to dress?

I don’t dress my age – I dress young. I like dressing to be comfortable in my jeans and shirt. When I have church service and big events, I wear Nigerian attire and sometimes, a suit for formal occasions. My mood dictates what I wear most times.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]