Obi Emelonye’s Heart and Soul premieres on Africa Magic Showcase
Chux Ohai

As Heart & Soul, a medico-spiritual TV series shot by renowned filmmaker, Obi Emelonye premieres on Africa Magic Showcase Channel 150 on Tuesday June 4, 2019, opportunities await Nigerian youths interested in taking part in the film and television industry when they engage with the TV series on social media.

The TV series, which starts at 5.30pm and will run every weekday, was shot under the The Obi Emelonye Foundation’s ‘50-50 Legacy’ project. It started with a string of film workshops in Lagos, and had enlisted about 100 youths in the state to take part in the filming as actors and crew members, with the aim of giving their aspirations in the industry the needed boost.

The plot revolves around the character, Dr Sydney, who has just returned from New York to join the medical team at a rather high tech but inundated Lagos State University Hospital in Ikeja.

Dr Sydney also discovers that for a people whose beliefs are steeped in pervasive spiritualism, there’s more to every sickness and indeed every cure than can be diagnosed or explained through medical science.

The odd stories and ailments from his many patients drain him physically and challenge his faith in God and medicine.

However, he has to find new friends in this hostile Lagos environment and maybe, he can also find time from playing God to love again.

Explaining how he conceived the idea of shooting Heart and Soul, Obi Emelonye says,“When my twin brother and I, turned 50, we thought of how we could give back to the society in our various fields. This is the result. I am doing mine through television I am interested in giving the opportunity to young Nigerians to realise their dreams in the audio-visual industry. We started at Nsukka with Crazy, Lovely, Cool. At the Lagos end, we have done this TV series, ‘Heart and Soul’, which has given about 100 young Nigerians the opportunity to participate in the industry. It is usually difficult for the young ones to get that very first opportunity. That is what we intend to bridge with this project.”

Comparable to classic medical dramas like ER, Casualty, and Scrubs, Heart & Soul has been described by critics as ‘Grey’s Anatomy set in Lagos with African mystery’, and features Nollywood star, Anthony Monjaro alongside Adekola Amoo, Phoenix Ezendu and many new but talented acts who were selected from the film workshops by the 50-50 Legacy initiative of The Obi Emelonye Foundation.

Heart & Soul is written, directed and produced by Obi Emelonye, while Adekola Amoo, Anthony Monjaro and Phoenix Ezendu are the lead actors.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]