Popular actors used to look down on me –Yusuf Ogunlana
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Upcoming Nollywood actor and movie producer, Yusuf Ogunlana, has said he had to struggle in the early years of his career due to the way things were done in the industry.

“My acting career has been very rough and tough; it didn’t start now, it started some years ago. I was still in school when I started, my parents warned me not to sacrifice my education for my acting career. Getting a role in Nollywood wasn’t easy because you had to know the key producers to even get featured. Roles are not assigned to actors based on their capabilities. That is why I am happy that I have been able to produce my movie to showcase my talent to the world.

“There have been times when the superstars in the industry looked down on me because they felt I was nobody. Rising in the industry is a struggle. The first movie I featured in wasn’t even released due to the marketer’s greed. In 2011, during my National Youth Service Corps programme, I featured in two other movies then I left Nigeria for South Africa in 2012,” he told Saturday Beats.

He noted that the marketers in the movie industry were now becoming a thorn in the flesh of thespians. “Another challenge I have faced in the industry is that most of the time, we don’t get adequate return on our investment. And also, marketers often dictate who they want to be featured in certain movies. They always want the ‘trending’ acts in the industry instead of focusing on the best act for the role.

“As a producer, it is better to use actors who are the best fits for roles but the marketers don’t see it the same way. People have different reasons for going into movies, but I am into it because I am passionate about it. However, things have changed now because we now have the option of uploading our movies on the Internet; I don’t have to rely on marketers anymore,” he added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]