EFCC should probe COSON now – Efe Omorogbe
Tofarati Ige

A member of the Copyright Society of Nigeria and MD/CEO of Now Muzik, Efe Omorogbe, is not hiding his displeasure with how the collecting society is being run by the chairman, Tony Okoroji.

Efe, together with some members, including Audu Maikori, Obi Asika, Sunny Neji, and Baba Dee, among others, had called for an independent audit of COSON’s account. In a chat with Sunday Scoop, Omorogbe explained why the members were calling for the audit. He said, “Members demanded an audit of the account of the organisation, but Okoroji refused, citing the cost as an unnecessary burden because its books had been audited by internal auditors. However, the Music Publishers Association of Nigeria has offered to underwrite the cost of the audit. And personally, if the books are audited, and Okoroji is absolved of any wrongdoing, I would apologise to him in any way he wants. Our stance has nothing to do with the chairmanship or board positions.

“The more ominous thing is actually that the licence of the organisation expired on May 20. It was callous and irresponsible of him (Okoroji) not to apply for a renewal. That means that, for now, COSON cannot carry out its statutory duties. At the so-called AGM, where Okoroji was reelected, a large number of members were not invited. Meanwhile, the body generated N200m less than it did the previous year. It also spent N31m on office security, as against N1m the preceding year. For legal fees, the society allegedly spent N34m, whereas it only spent N17m the previous year.”

Omorogbe also disclosed that a petition had been submitted to the EFCC. He said, “The EFCC has been petitioned. However, Okoroji’s attack on the collective management structure has been done with the active connivance of the police, especially Zone 2 Command Headquarters. He was invited on two occasions but he didn’t show up. The longer it takes for the EFCC to do something about this matter, the more damage it’s causing the industry.”

The chairman of MPAN, Olumide Mustapha, affirmed that the organisation was ready to sponsor an independent audit of COSON’s accounts. “Members of COSON can ask for an independent audit if they have reason to suspect that there are disparities in the figures presented. And we, MPAN, are saying that we are ready to pay the cost of the audit; so, COSON has no financial obligation in it. We don’t have a dog in this fight. We are just trying to ensure that things are done right. We need to know how the money generated by the organisation is managed,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]