I don’t get many roles because I look young — Chy Nwakanma
Kore Ogidan

Background

I am from the Ngwa tribe of Abia State, and I was born in the Obingwa Local Government Area of the state. I was a shy kid but was more relaxed around my brothers and cousins. With other people, I was more reserved and not very outspoken. I also used to be self-conscious about my gap tooth. However, that changed when I became a teenager, though there was still a bit of insecurity even after feeling less self-conscious.

Education

I attended Living Word Academy, Aba, Abia State, for my primary education. Then, I went to Command Secondary School, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, where I spent a year of my secondary education. After that, I moved to the United States of America and attended Gwendolyn Brooks Middle School and Buffalo Grove High School, Chicago, for my high school. I graduated from the University of Illinois, Chicago, where I got a degree in Communications and Bachelor of Fine Arts in Acting.

Acting

When I was in middle school, at about age 12, I joined a dance troupe so I could meet people and have friends. That’s when the arts started for me. In high school, I did athletics for the first two years and after that, I joined an after-school theatre programme. That’s when I really started acting. We wrote and performed our works by ourselves. When I got to the university, my original major was Biochemistry because I wanted to become a pharmacist. After my first year, I decided I wanted to do something else and started my journey in professional acting. I moved to Nigeria in 2015 and went for auditions. Before I moved back to Nigeria though, I networked through Facebook with the people whose works I’d seen, and that was the beginning.

First time

I was nervous when I got on set for the first time. Luckily, we (the cast) had some reading prior to going on set, and we had our photo-shoot before we started filming. During the photo session, we all started to bond and by the time we started shooting, we weren’t complete strangers. There was also the fear of everyone staring at me while acting because the set gets completely quiet when shooting starts and you can feel all eyes on you. Luckily, I was prepared.

Parents’ reaction

After my first semester in the university, I had a meeting with my parents. They asked me what my plans were and knowing how they were likely to react, I presented it to them wisely, backing my facts up. I had to convince them and now, they are very supportive.

Initially, they wanted me to do acting on the side while I studied Pharmacy, but I felt like I’d be cheating myself if I did that because it takes seven years to read Pharmacy in the university. Till now, they are still a bit concerned but because entertainment is now more accepted, they are more relaxed.

Industry

It has its ups and downs but I’m grateful. I’ve been blessed with projects that matter. For me, it’s more about the quality than the quantity. At some point, I felt that I wasn’t getting enough roles but I got a revelation that I actually get the roles that matter. I’m starting to appreciate my uniqueness.

Breakthrough

The television series, This Is It, shot me into the limelight. It was produced and directed by Lowladee and I played the character of a newlywed called Dede. Most people call me by that character’s name even till now. It was my first on-screen lead role and I was quite humbled by that. Preparing for the role was quite overwhelming because we got all the scripts at once and I was in almost every scene.

Challenges

I was often asked to speak without an American accent. Because of that, I believe I’ve been tied to a certain character. Screen acting is usually about how you look more than your talent. I don’t question my talent as I do the way I look if I don’t get chosen for a role. That’s majorly because I look young and the roles for people who look too young are quite limited.

Experience

The industry is quite interesting and I’m grateful for the opportunities I’ve got in such a short time. When I first got into the industry, I wasn’t really bothered about hitting instant success; I cared more about working.

My first audition showed me that we didn’t really have a structure in the industry regarding auditions. There wasn’t a great publicity system, but now, it’s better.

Hobbies

I love to travel and experience other cultures. I hope to travel more as time goes by. I also love teaching and I’m currently working on my first online course. I like small get-togethers because I don’t like the big scene of activities such as clubs and big parties. However, I’m open to adventures.

Fashion

I like simplicity with a bit of sophistication. There are some dresses that would make you look good, but uncomfortable. I don’t mind those. It’s important I look nice in them. Ultimately, I like to be comfortable and look classy.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]