Nigerians are known as big spenders in Seychelles –– Linda Ejiofor
Actress, Linda Ejiofor, shares her experience in Seychelles with KORE OGIDAN

How often do you travel?

I don’t travel too often. I’m working on changing that because my husband likes to travel. The few times I travelled before I met my husband were for work. I don’t have as much latitude to travel as I’d like, especially because I’m on a television series, Tinsel, and that takes much of my time. Even when I travel, it’s the series that takes me out. I’m trying to change that by travelling with my husband when we have holidays. I’m very excited about this development because I love to see new places and I get to travel with someone I love.

What was your most recent travel experience?

I visited Seychelles in January for my honeymoon and spent ten days there. It was quite cold when we got there and we were told that the weather was friendlier in comparison to what it was in December, when it was quite unbearable. We stayed in the Berjaya Beau Vallon Bay Resort which was such a beautiful place. It was quiet, peaceful and high up in the mountains. Seychelles has many mountains.

What caught your attention on arrival in Seychelles?

I was immediately awed by how blue and clear the skies were. The air was very clean as well. Then, I saw the ocean which had a perfect hue of blue and green. It was also very clear and I could see everything reflected in it. The ocean was also as neat and perfect as it looks in pictures.

What were the people of Seychelles like?

The people were very welcoming and nice. Luckily, they speak English; so, there wasn’t a language barrier. The people on the island wore shorts a lot. It was cold but they said they were past winter and weren’t cold. We met another Nigerian couple who were also there on their honeymoon. They stayed in the same hotel with us but they were there for six days before leaving for their next destination.

How were you able to move around the island?

At the airport, we took a taxi and the driver took us straight to the hotel. The ride from the airport to the hotel took about 45 minutes. Airport taxis are very pricey and they didn’t have app taxis; so, we paid a lot of money.

We paid for a tour package, so we had a guide, and a few days before we left the island for home, we already knew our way around. We were able to take cabs ourselves to wherever we were going.

Did you try their food?

I didn’t because I’m not adventurous with food. We had a buffet the first night we got there. We later realised that the food was very expensive; so, we didn’t bother wasting too much money. The hotel we stayed in had different restaurants – Japanese, Chinese, Mexican and so on. We patronised these restaurants and only had the hotel buffets in the mornings. I love Chinese and spicy food; so, I ate at the Indian restaurant. At the pizzeria, they had a lot of variety – from subs to pizza and even prawns. That was good.

What was the state of security on the island?

The locals said they had issues with people getting robbed but because we were in the resort, we didn’t notice any such thing.

Were you recognised there?

At the airport, the other Nigerian couple recognised us but we acted like we didn’t know they were looking at us. When we realised we were staying at the same hotel, we exchanged pleasantries and became more cordial. I was free, having fun and there was no spotlight on me.

Did you buy souvenirs?

I always buy souvenirs when I travel. I bought fridge magnets, coasters and a bag.

Do Seychellois know about Nigeria?

On our way to the airport coming back to Nigeria, the taxi driver said Nigerians come to Seychelles a lot and spend huge amounts of money.

Would you accept a one-way ticket to Seychelles to live there permanently?

I love to travel and come back to Nigeria. There is something about the Nigerian weather that I love. Seychelles was quite cold and I don’t like cold places. Seychelles is also quite pricey. I would love to come back to Nigeria after a nice holiday there.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]