Some actresses fight others more beautiful than them – Funmi Awelewa
Tofarati Ige

Pretty actress, Funmi Awelewa, believes physical attractiveness is one of the reasons actresses usually have ‘beef’ with one another. She told Sunday Scoop, “Many actresses envy the lives of others and if they can’t hide it anymore, they start having issues with the person. Physical attractiveness is one of the reasons some actresses ‘beef’ their colleagues, especially in social circles where appearance is highly valued. Some are scared of seeing others shine brighter than them. However, that is just my opinion.”

Lending her thoughts on her colleagues who lead fake lives on social media, Awelewa said, “I believe it’s a matter of choice. Some believe in the saying, ‘fake it till you make it’. Many people are struggling to appear awesome so as to be celebrated. They keep wanting more until they can’t get enough. Some actresses lead fake lives on social media because other people’s opinions matter to them more than theirs. As for me, I don’t have that awesome life everybody seems to be having on social media. Mine is a slow and steady game. I believe each day is a struggle to be a better version of myself. Don’t just exist and admire the lives of others while faking and messing up yours. If you’re your authentic self, you have no competition.”

Speaking on her recent projects and the challenges she has to grapple with, the actress said, “I just finished work on two films, Kariile and Efuufu (Winds). When it comes to challenges, no human being is perfect. I enjoy finding the contradictions in any character I’m required to play. As an actor, it takes more than desire to deliver; you have to give your best on set. Initially, I may find some roles difficult but at the end of the day, I usually deliver well by giving my best. I don’t want to disappoint my fans.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]