I begged Cossy to stop attack on Halima Abubakar – Uche Ogbodo
Tofarati Ige

Actress, Uche Ogbodo, has been in the news for different reasons lately. About two weeks ago, she released some sultry photos to celebrate her birthday. In the pictures, she was practically nude while she puffed away at a cigarette. Some people felt the pictures were too sensual, but the actress shrugged them off. Shortly after that, she posted another picture of herself, Uche Elendu and Halima Abubakar. Controversial actress, Cossy Ojiakor, commented on the picture, referring to Abubakar as a snake. According to Ojiakor, it was Abubakar’s then boyfriend that wrote a story that she (Cossy) slept with a dog for money.

However, Ogbodo admitted to Sunday Scoop that she was not happy with Cossy’s comment on her post. She said, “I felt bad in a way about the comment but you know everyone in Nigeria is entitled to freedom of speech and expression. I couldn’t have done anything to stop Cossy from commenting on my social media page. Even when I deleted the first comment and begged her to stop, she got so angry and asked me not to do that. It was just ironic though because my caption was celebrating ‘drama-free friends’, but before you knew it, there was drama everywhere.”

Ogbodo also maintained that Abubakar was her “good friend and supportive colleague” who she loves and admires.

READ ALSO: Women no longer have to fake orgasms – Freda Francis

Meanwhile, the daring actress said she was not bothered about the backlash that attended her controversial pictures. “I didn’t care much about the harsh comments; I didn’t even read them. Truly, I have no regrets. I love to stand out and be different in everything. I’m not sorry for doing me, and I’m not going to apologise for my photos. I love them, and I’m sure I will do more,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]