I prepared for fame before it came – Sunny Neji
Tofarati Ige

Veteran singer, Sunny Neji, has said even at the pinnacle of his career, he never allowed fame to get into his head.

Speaking on what he had been up to recently, the Cross River State-born artiste said, “I am currently working on a concert called Timeless that would hold between October and November. We are trying to put up a concert that would challenge lots of artistes to match the quality. It is a way of challenging everybody to work harder. I am sure that the whole country is going to be very proud of it. I have heard a lot of people complain about the quality of songs and concerts out there but I don’t like to get involved in that argument because I believe music is subjective. So, I just pursue what I think should be. We tend to set what we consider the standard.”

Speaking on the quality of lyrics of love songs these days, Neji said, “I think music should be deeper than what it is now. Music should be entertaining, and also healing. If you observe the world today, it seems people are losing their humanity. That’s because there’s something missing and music is supposed to fill such vacuum. We need to bring good music back again. I’m not saying we’ll do it the way it used to be; we would do it better.”

On how he was able to ‘keep his head’ even at the peak of stardom, the Oruka singer stated, “People have different reasons for coming into the entertainment industry. For some people, fame just comes without them preparing for it. Some people come in with a specific purpose – they enjoy creating music. I came into the industry because I enjoyed making music; I wasn’t looking for fame. I wanted to make music to touch people. So, when the fame came, it didn’t make any difference to me.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]