I feared embarrassing my sister, Dakore – Timini Egbuson
Actor, Timini Egbuson, shares his experience in the Nigerian film industry with KORE OGIDAN

Tell us about your background.

I’m the last of five kids and I was raised in Lagos, Nigeria. I grew up loving the arts – singing dancing, and acting in the church. I learnt without the pressure of trying to make money from it. Everything I started to do was strictly for the love of it. I’m thankful now because those things have translated into some form of income.

I remember just enjoying playing with my siblings. I don’t recall any time of hardship. It may not have been easy but my parents did a great job of making sure that the reality we had was one that was full of joy. My worst childhood memory was when my dad said he was going to spank me but luckily, he didn’t. I remember being so afraid and asking my older siblings what to prepare for.

What schools did you attend?

For my elementary education, I attended Greenspring Motensorri School, Anthony, Lagos State, and Adebayo Mokolu College, Ogba, Lagos, for my secondary education. I graduated from the University of Lagos with a degree in Psychology. I have also engaged in a lot of self-learning on the Internet.

How was your journey getting into the movie industry?

My journey into the industry has been nothing short of miraculous; that’s the only way I can explain it. I knew I liked acting because I used to be the personal assistant to my sister (Dakore Egbuson-Akande). When I graduated from the university, I decided to attend an audition for Mnet’s Tinsel. I got the role and I was quite excited. Although it wasn’t a big role, that was what started the process of me getting into the industry. I met many people along the way. My director on Tinsel was also the casting director on MTV’s Shuga. It was because of my performance on Tinsel that she recommended me to come for the auditions for Shuga. Everything has had a domino effect, which has brought me to where I am right now.

What has been your experience in the movie industry?

My experience has been amazing. I have no regrets. From the rejections, denials to the celebrations, everything comes with its own lessons. I’m here learning and enjoying the process.

What are some of the lessons you’ve learnt in Nollywood?

I’ve learnt that perseverance and patience are not just fancy words – they do go a long way in shaping your career. I’ve learnt to trust the process and to know that the sky is big enough for everyone to fly. I’ve also learnt that with persistence, dedication, and commitment to your craft, there’s no way you wouldn’t get better and eventually be the best.

What were your fears when you started acting?

To be fair, I landed on my two feet. I didn’t fear much. I knew that in the worst case, I wouldn’t succeed. I had no fear but I didn’t want to embarrass my sister because she had made a huge name and impact in her generation. I knew that the spotlight would be on me as her younger brother. I was more concerned about not disappointing or disgracing her. Also, I was a bit worried that it wouldn’t be financially rewarding because I was going to eventually take it up as a full-time career. At that time, I couldn’t really see the benefits but I had hope and in hindsight, I thank God that I made the choice to commit fully to it.

What future plans do you have for your career?

I plan to make Nigeria and Africa proud. I know there’s a lot that can be changed through acting and there’s a lot I can do to motivate many young people. I’m using my life and journey as an example so that people looking at me can know that there is potential and that their dreams are valid.

What were the challenges you faced when you started out?

Acceptance is one thing, as people second-guess your talent. I had to prove myself and I’m constantly proving myself to people. I’ve realised that there’s nothing great one can achieve that doesn’t come with challenges. So, I did face a few hiccups. Then, people weren’t really writing lead roles for younger people but I think the narrative has changed now and there are many stories that revolve around young people.

Do you think the industry favours young talent?

I believe the game is the game. Everyone has one challenge or the other they’re facing. Instead of focusing on what you are not getting or what is stopping you from getting where you need to get to, you should focus on your strengths and find ways to capitalise on them.

The industry can be harsh but rough seas make smooth sailors; it’s for the greater good.

How does stardom treat you?

People who have known me for a very long time will tell you that I haven’t changed. Maybe, that’s because I haven’t got the kind of stardom that changes people. Perhaps, when I get to Hollywood, it may be different. For now, I lead my life and keep the same friends. I don’t allow stardom affect me. I don’t even consider myself a star. I’m just a regular guy doing what I love and getting appreciated by a few people every day. I appreciate the love and I don’t take it for granted.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]