I’ve learnt to remain humble no matter the hype –Efa Iwara
Actor, Efa Iwara, shares his experience in the Nigerian film industry with KORE OGIDAN

Tell us about your background.

My father is a retired professor of Linguistics and my mother is a librarian. I am from Ugep in Cross River State but I was born and raised in Ibadan, Oyo State. I attended Staff School, Ibadan, for my elementary education, and the International School, Barth Road, Ibadan, for my secondary education. I graduated from the University of Ibadan, where I bagged a degree in Geography.

What are your childhood memories?

I enjoyed Christmas mornings, when the whole family would gather and there would be lots of food to eat. It was always nice to just talk and catch up with one another. My siblings were in the university or in boarding school and I wasn’t in either. So, Christmas was the time when it was guaranteed that everyone would be home and that was amazing. My worst childhood moments were when I had to wash the dishes. Everyone would eat and leave their dishes in the sink for me to wash because I was the last child. What made it worse was that whenever I washed the last one and was ready to leave the kitchen, there was always one last person who would come in and add another plate.

How did you get into the movie industry?

It started when I was nine years old and I performed in Ola Rotimi’s play, The gods are not to blame. I found it interesting but for some reason, I couldn’t join the drama group. I used to enact roles for my friends and family members at home, just to entertain them. When I moved to Lagos and wasn’t getting many roles, my manager suggested I went for auditions and I liked the idea. At that point, I was still in the music business. Acting just happened for me as it was something I enjoyed doing.

Tell us about your experience being an actor.

It has been interesting. I’ve seen the good and not-very-good sides. The not-very-good sides are when I have to be under the scorching sun or rain for a whole day for an audition. The good side is getting a well-paying job. It’s important to stay hopeful. One must also be honest with oneself and keep working on one’s craft.

What lessons has the movie industry taught you?

I’ve learnt to remain humble, no matter how much hype I get. Also, I’ve learnt that no matter how excited people are about one, it’s important to keep one’s head down, stay humble and keep doing the work. No role is too small and you must always do your best. You don’t know if it’s that seemingly small role that would lead to the next big thing in your career.

What’s your vision as an actor?

My vision is for my career to go international, and I believe that’s every actor’s dream. It would be nice to grow from national to continental to global level.

What were the challenges you faced at the beginning of your career?

I really didn’t like the conditions actors were subjected to in the name of auditions. I didn’t mind the auditions; it just wasn’t pleasant having to stand around for long hours waiting. That could be very daunting and could drain you mentally and physically. Now, things are different. I thank God I don’t have to go for open auditions anymore. Luckily, the works I have done speak for themselves and I do closed auditions now. I’m grateful to God for growth over the years.

What do you think one requires to succeed in the industry?

I think the industry favours everyone – the old and the young. You just have to work hard and take your chances. It requires hard work to succeed in any industry in life, and the movie industry isn’t too different. You just have to put in the work.

How does it feel being recognised as a television star?

It’s still quite weird when people recognise me for whatever role they’ve seen me play. It is fun that we can get to talk about it. It’s also humbling to know that people like what I do. I am very grateful for that. It, however, still takes me by surprise. Sometimes, when I’m out and someone is staring at me, it takes me a minute to process that it’s because they’ve seen me on television.

What projects have you been involved in?

I am blessed to have been involved in numerous projects. I am on series such as The Men’s Club by RedTv, Rumour Has It by NdaniTv and Ajoche by Africa Magic. There are two projects which I acted in that may be released this year. They are titled, Tainted Canvas and Seven.

How did your parents react to you wanting to go into acting fully?

They were a bit skeptical about it, just as any parent would react. Once your child is going into entertainment, you’d have your reservations. That’s just what it is. However, my mum has always been extremely supportive of me, although she would express her reservations. My father, however supportive, also makes his reservations really clear, repeatedly.

What do you think about the struggle for easy and quick success in the movie industry?

Nothing good comes easy. You must put in the work, be resilient, prayerful and be ready to go the extra mile.

How lucrative is the acting business, especially with the rate at which practitioners buy luxury things?

The acting business is quite lucrative. It has put a roof over my head and food on my table. I’m grateful that I have been able to survive and function comfortably. More importantly, I’m happy. I can’t speak for the people who buy luxury items and claim it’s from film money. I don’t know them and I don’t know their lives, so I can’t assume. I’ve learnt in life to focus on my own path and be content with my own life. I am content and I’ll keep working harder with the hope that things will improve and I too can buy mansions in due time.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]