US, UK billionaires feature on Forbes Africa’s ‘My Worst Day with Peace Hyde’
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Popular business talk show, Forbes Africa’s ‘My Worst Day with Peace Hyde’, is set to launch its third instalment and this time, the programme has a line-up of business tycoons from the global business world. The show, which is renowned for interviewing African continent’s billionaires and millionaires to talk about their most challenging day ever in business, has raised the bar by venturing into the global business world to assemble a league of some of the richest and most successful African American business moguls.

Reprising her role as creator, producer, and host of the show, Peace Hyde is set to take the award-winning show globally. Successful editions of the show have been syndicated in Ghana and South Africa, drawing in an enviable guest list of some of the most powerful people in African business.

Some of the guests on this line-up include, Eddie Brown, one of the wealthiest philanthropists in Baltimore and founder of Brown Capital Management investment firm with over $9bn of assets under management; Janice Bryant Howroyd, founder and CEO of $925m ActOno, provider of workforce solutions, including temporary staffing; Cathy Hughes, media mogul and founder of TV One and Urban One, launched in partnership with Comcast, with 53 stations across 16 markets; and Bishop TD Jakes of TD Jakes Enterprises.

“We have interviewed some of the most powerful people in Africa and for this season, we decided to seek out people all over the world with African heritage and explore how they overcame their most challenging day in business. When we started three years ago, we didn’t realise how big the show would be and we have had overwhelming feedback from all over the world and hence the reason why we are going global with this season,” Hyde said.

The show has previously featured Africa’s richest man, Aliko Dangote, alongside others like Africa’s second richest woman, Folorunso Alakija; South African millionaire and Mayor of Johannesburg, Herman Mashaba; AfDB President, Akinwumi Adesina; and Ghanaian millionaire, Paa Kwasi Nduom.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]