Mr P vows to sue promoters for copyright infringement
Chux Ohai

A member of the defunct Nigerian pop group, P-Square, Peter Okoye, also known as Mr P, has vowed to sue some foreign promoters for using his photograph to advertise his twin brother, Paul’s show in Angola.

Mr P, who is currently on a playing tour of parts of Africa, took to his Instagram page on Sunday to express his displeasure with the action of the organisers of the planned show.

Apparently the organisers, operating under the business name, Pub Four, had failed to seek the musician’s permission before using his photograph to advertise the show online. Mr P, who had just arrived in Addis Ababa, capital of Ethiopia, where he was billed to perform in a concert, could not understand why his picture was being used to advertise a show that had nothing to do with him.

Angered by the audacity of the promoters, he wrote, “Na wa o. So they needed my image to sell their show in Angola. These promoters @pubfoureventos, you’ll be hearing from my lawyers soon.”

Explaining why he decided to react to the action of the Angolan promoters, he added, “This is the reason why I have to make it clear. I can’t begin to tell you what I have had to deal with in the last couple of days. My management has been accused of double booking me. Also, my promoters are panicking and my fans in Angola have been saying that they were looking forward to my performance in Luanda.

“Let’s be clear about this. There is no need to make this an emotional issue and no point in being sentimental. This is a matter of integrity and business. There is nothing else. I have to protect my business and image. That is all. Once again, the promoters and organisers of that event/festival have to be held accountable. My legal team is on it.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]