I’ll prioritise Ogun Cultural Troupe —Abiodun
The Ogun State governor-elect, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has said that his in-coming government will give adequate priority to the state cultural troupe.

Abiodun said this during a pre-inauguration cultural event organised to usher him into office. The event took place at the June 12, Cultural Centre in Kuto, Abeokuta, the state capital.

Describing the Ogun State Cultural Troupe as a world-class and highly professional body established and funded by the state government, as well as comprising many talented artists, including dancers, drummers, singers, acrobats and actors, the governor-elect noted that the uniqueness of the troupe was its mastery and ability to perform various cultural dances from the state, Nigeria and Africa.

He said the troupe was set to conquer the artistic world in its resolve to promote, present, propagate and preserve the richly endowed cultural heritage of the state.

“With these achievements, it is very imperative to pay more attention to the troupe. That is why I am going to prioritise the sector. This will enable its members to be more proactive and win more laurels,” Abiodun said

Earlier, the Cultural Evening Committee, Chairman and former Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Hon. Muyiwa Oladipo, attributed the success that was recorded in the last few years as the result of steadfastness of members of the troupe, its uniqueness and the level of professionalism that the artists had displayed during its past outings across Africa.

He added that the incoming administration of Prince Dapo Abiodun would not relent on his efforts to make the state cultural troupe achieve best in their activities, noting that Ogun State was well known and recognised in education, health, infrastructure, culture and tourism and even in the other sectors.

“We are using this cultural troupe to usher in our next governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun and to let him realise that Ogun State is one of the best in the country in terms of cultural heritage and tourism. That is why we are performing/showcasing live, as well as to always see them as one the state legacy if the government could pay much priority to it”, Oladipo said.

Other cultural groups that performed at the event included the Ajagbode group from Ipokia in the Yewa Division of the state; Balufon, a fascinating and regal dance group from Remo; Ogodo from Egbaland; Bata-Ota, a rich assemblage of energetic, vibrant drummers and dancers from Ota in the Yewa-Awori Zone of the state and Yengben, representing the Ijebu Division of the state. The latter is also a richly endowed cultural dance group with scintillating dance steps.

The dignitaries who attended the event included a former Governor of the state, Aremo Olusegun Osoba; a former Deputy Governor, Prince Segun Adesegun; Senator Lanre Tejuoso; Senator Gbenga Obadara; a former Speaker of the Ogun State House of Assembly, Hon. Titi Oseni-Gomez; Hon. Ibrahim Isiaka; MHR, Hon. Kunle Olumo, among others. All the traditional rulers in the state, including the Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, were also present at the event.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]