Jide Chord shakes table with Paskeske
Seasoned juju singer, Jide Chord, has again hit the music scene with a new album, titled Paskeske. It is a five-track deal bound to excite the fans of the Darling Ronke singer while also winning more souls for him. But this is not to say that Paskeske is a gospel song.

The artiste, whose voice is ever tender, does not forget to salute his God in some parts of the album, but the work is more of run-on entertainment that will make one feel good. It is a collection of philosophical and romantic lyrics of which Jide Chord is never tired of singing.

Yet, Paskeske is different from all he has done because of the dominant beat. Here, he goes wild with tungba, fast-paced and intoxicating rhythm that may break more than the back of a camel.

‘We do not hold anything back in Paskeske,” Jide Chord says. “For some time, our fans have been asking me ‘What next?’ We thus have to show them that next thing in a big way.

“You will agree with me that music is living thing. It has a soul. It grows and changes. One should also grow with music as an artiste. A lot of things also happen around one, around the world. Thank God, one has seen a lot in different parts of the world. I have continued to perform across countries and all of our experiences have an effect on the new songs.”

The musician, who released his first album — Promise of God — in 1984, explains that he has never claimed to be a gospel singer – though he has for long been part of church choir. According to him, he is a musician.

He is happy that Nigerian music is going in what he calls the right direction, though he believes it is evolving He is particularly happy that those tapping form the roots — including Flavour, Olamide, Simi and Davido — are doing well.

“They are working smart rather than working hard. But, whatever the case, we must give kudos to KennyMusic for bridging the gap at the right time,” he adds.

After spending years in the UK, the artiste is fully on ground in Nigeria now and he has been performing at different shows.

Jide Chord’s other albums include Festival of Love, Brown Sugar, Another Level and Romeo and Juliet.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]