I’m underrated but won’t relent – Magnito
Tofarati Ige

[email protected]

08068792241 (SMS only)

Rapper, Magnito’s song series, Relationship Be Like, currently has eight parts and it is still not finished. It is already a sensation on the Internet as the videos have attracted lots of views. The rapper told Sunday Scoop what informed the song series. “When I was growing up, I listened to R. Kelly’s Trapped in the Closet. That’s like one of the best songs I’ve listened to when it comes to music creativity. After some years that I’ve been releasing songs, I really like the fact that people go all out to release singles. But it’s becoming too much. One would release a single, promote it and hope it becomes successful. Nobody really cracks their brain so much to make sure their songs stand out. That’s how I came about the series. And the feedback has been overwhelming,” he said.

The rapper also explained what informed the choice of people he featured on the song. He stated, “The people I featured on the song are those who I really respect in the industry. The first person that blew my mind was Basketmouth. He showed me love and he became one of the biggest artistes that I featured. Don Jazzy also told me that he liked everything I was doing and he jumped on it. So far so good, there are many other celebrities that want to be on it but I cannot feature everybody. Right now, I’m trying to cook up another story that would be different from Relationship Be Like, and would blow people’s minds.”

Magnito also admitted that he was underrated in the industry. “Yes, I am underrated. God cannot give you everything at once; so, you just have to wait for the right time for Him to bless you the way He wants to. However, I would not relent because I have been in the industry for a very long time. This is what I like to do and I would be doing it for a while. The response I’ve been getting is really massive and that makes me happy. That has really boosted my energy to put in more work and give people the best. After the Ramadan, I will be releasing a song on which I featured Falz, and it’s titled, If to say I be girl,” the Benue State-born rapper stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]