A male fan once sent me money — Tosin Olaniyan
Tofarati Ige

Background

I am from Osun State and that is where I grew up. My childhood was somewhat strict. I was not allowed to go out to play with friends. My movement only rotated between school and church. However, in our own way, my kid brother and me were able to have fun. We were each other’s best companions.

As a child, my future ambition was to become a lawyer. At some point, I also wanted to be an actor.

Education

I attended Kiddis Preparatory School, Ile Ife, Osun State, for my elementary education. For my secondary education, I went to Adventist Secondary School, also in Ile Ife. I am currently in my final year studying English Language at the National Open University.

Career

I started my career by going for auditions before I finally joined the Odunlade Adekola Film Productions. I cannot remember the title of the first movie I appeared in, but I have been in more than 20 over the years. Some of them are Amookun, Irawo Osan, Eni Ola, Tipa Tipa, Kara, Saamu Alajo, Yeye Alara, Iremide, Deolu Ariwo, Alani Pomolekun, AAA, Gbemileke, among others.

I have had a good and wonderful career so far, and I am very thankful to God for how far He has brought me. I know that the future is very bright and I would continue to put in my best.

Parents’ reaction

They have always been in full support of my career. Even before I started acting professionally, they gave me the go ahead.

My mum is late now, but she always supported me before she passed on.

Challenges

When I first got into the industry, one of the first problems I had was the fact that I didn’t know where to start from, and how to prioritise my time. The greatest sacrifice I have made for my career is giving my time. This job could be time consuming.

Meanwhile, those challenges have helped me to build a more robust mentality. I have learnt how to manage my time better, how to be focused, how to trust, and so many other important lessons.

Most importantly, I have learnt to always be myself.

OAFP

A friend of mine gave me the phone number of OAFP’s captain. He invited me to his office and we spoke. From there, I became part of the group.

OAFP is wonderful – it is always full of joy. It has also produced a number of new faces in the Yoruba movie industry. In one word, OAFP is great

Productions

I have produced one movie titled, Big Mummy. During production, I saw myself in another light. And I had to work with so many people. It was quite taxing but I was able to pull it off at the end of the day. Shooting a movie is financially demanding, and the longer you spend on set, the more you would have to pay.

One also has to manage and coordinate the cast and crew well, so that everything can go well.

Though I have not had the opportunity yet, I would like to work with some great actors like Sola Sobowale, Genevieve Nnaji, Toyin Abraham, Richard Mofe Damijo, and Bimbo Akintola.

Personality

I would refer to myself as a gentle person. I always stay in my lane and I don’t like trouble. I am also a funny and accommodating lady.

Role models

My role models are Odunlade Adekola, Bimbo Akintola and Genevieve Nnaji.

Fame

Fame is a good thing but it has robbed me of some things. Majorly, I can no longer go out as I would please. Now, I have to plan my movement very carefully and be specific about where I’m going.

Other interests

I don’t have any other business for now. It’s just me and my movie career. Besides, I’m still a student.

If I were not an actress, I would have probably become a human rights activist or a lawyer.

Fans

I have had a lot of funny experiences with male fans, and that’s part of the job. I love and respect my fans and I relate well with them. However, one experience that stood out was when a male fan sent me money.

I have never experienced sexual harassment in the industry, but it is a big problem that a lot of actresses face.

Body

I love all of me but my favourite part of my body are my boobs.

Relationship

I wouldn’t want to say anything about that. It’s personal. However, I like a man who is jovial and tall.

Hobbies

I love travelling, watching movies and sleeping. Whenever I want to unwind, I just relax in my house.

Fashion

I don’t think I have any particular definition for fashion. I just wear what goes.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]