Nigeria Army arrests fake soldier for assaulting Baba Fryo
Chux Ohai

The Nigerian Army has arrested a fake soldier who allegedly took part in a brutal assault on popular dancehall singer, Baba Fryo, in Lagos.

The suspect, who was reportedly apprehended by the military police in Ojo Cantonment, was identified as Muhammed Ishaq. He was arrested a few hours after the victim reported the matter.

The singer shared a photo shot of the arrested suspect on his Facebook page. He also expressed his gratitude to the Officer Commanding the Military Police in Ojo Cantonment, Capt Atunwa, for his prompt investigation of the matter.

Fryo wrote, “People need to be very careful these days as there so are many Babylonians posing as soldiers. I am very proud of the Nigerian Army and Capt Atunwa for his effective investigations and action taking in this matter. We give thanks to the most high God.”

Baba Fryo had shared pictures of his bloodied face after he was reportedly attacked by Ishag and his accomplices in the Ojo area of Lagos.

He also claimed that he had reported the attack to the authorities at the Ojo military barracks, who promised to investigate the matter and bring the erring ‘soldiers’ to book.

Although the singer refrained from giving the full detail of the incident when he announced the incident on social media on Monday, he nevertheless hinted that that the ‘soldiers’ who attacked him were aided to escape into the barracks by a female soldier.

He wrote, “I was humiliated by an unknown soldier. I tried to force them to the barracks, but a female soldier interfered and allowed them to escape. The case is under investigation. Thanks to Ojo Army barrack who took the case on their shoulder, I pray they will surely be caught and brought to book.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the[email protected]