Against doctors’ advice, I delayed childbirth till my birthday– Precious Fani-Kayode
It is a quadruple celebration for model-turned-actress and wife of a former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, as she and her triplets who share their birthdays today will be celebrating the day.

In an exclusive telephone interview with the actress, she revealed that she actually delayed her childbirth so that it could coincide with her birthday even though her doctors frowned on the decision. “I feel good, happy and fulfilled. I am turning 30 and I have accomplished most of what I planned to do before clocking 30. As for the rest, it is left to God. So far so good, I have done most of what I’d like to do.

“I have triplets and I was meant to have them earlier than I did but I tried so hard to carry them until the day I gave birth to them. Even though the doctors warned that it was not healthy for me to do that, I fought so hard and to God be the glory, I had my children. I did not have any problems for carrying them that long because I was meant to have given birth to them a month before I did. I tried to be so strong like a Hebrew woman and to God’s glory, it happened,” the mother of three said.

Precious admitted that it was not easy going through with her decision but she knew she had to be strong like a Hebrew woman. “It was not easy to do what I did and there were days that I felt like cutting myself open and bringing them out myself but I had to be strong. Every woman has an inner strength that she does not know she has on her own. That strength came to play and to God’s glory, everything worked out fine,” she said.

However, taking a trip down memory lane, she identified one of the toughest moments of her life as the period after childbirth, especially as her mother died before she put to bed. “The period after I gave birth to them was the toughest time of my life considering that I lost my mother a month before my babies were born. There were days when I really cried because I did not have anyone around that understood the exact situation I was going through.

“I needed someone that understood motherhood more than I did but my mother was not there. I had to go through the challenges alone, except for my husband who was always there to pamper me and make sure that I was alright throughout the period. But such is life and I knew that I had to be strong for my family and God gave me the strength,” Precious said.

She was, however, quick to share tips that helped her get back in shape, adding that she was done with childbearing even though her husband would like female children. She said, “It was easy for me to get back to shape because I am conscious of what I eat and the time I eat. Also, given that I am a model, it was easy for me. Also after childbirth, I did not really have appetite so it helped a lot. I am done with childbirth even though my husband does not agree as he wants some beautiful girls, but this is where I have to end this journey.”

She noted that since her children are now a year old, she’s ready to return to her acting career. “I have not quit my acting career. I was working on going back into the movie industry when the triplets came so I had to wait to nurse them but now that they are a year old, I am ready to go back to work and continue everything I wanted to do. I would be able to continue my career without much stress because once you have love and passion for something; you would ensure you do it. For me, fulfillment and happiness are important,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the[email protected]