From hospital to music studio, Ajasa releases new song
Chux Ohai

Popular indigenous rap star, Lord of Ajasa (real name is Olusegun Osaniyi), was seriously ill and urgently in need of funds for a Peptic Ulcer surgery a few months ago. At the time, many music fans in Nigeria, who knew about his contributions to the growth of indigenous rap in Nigeria, were very worried about his condition.

Friends and close associates of the rapper, prompted by a message posted on Instagram by Afro-beat singer, Alariwo, in which he called for urgent financial support for Ajasa, quickly rose to the rapper’s aid. Their timely donations ensured that the ailing artiste survived the critical stage of the illness.

Ajasa has since been discharged from the hospital. He has gotten much better, certainly no longer in danger, but still awaiting an-all important surgery to remove his stone-ridden gall bladder.

The rapper, in a telephone interview with our correspondent on Tuesday, said his doctors still had him placed under observation. Although they appear to rule out the possibility of having the surgery done, he is required to report to the hospital for periodic medical checkup.

He said, “I’m okay now, but I have not undergone surgery to remove my gall bladder. I am still going to the hospital for medical checkups. I would have had the surgery done by now, but my doctors said we should keep delaying it. They told me that since I’ve not developed any complications from the treatment, there may be no need for the surgery.

“Instead, they recommended a therapy for me. Eating fruits every day is part of it. Nowadays, I eat a lot of fruits, especially apples, because my doctors said it could melt the stones in my gall bladder.

READ ALSO: Fosudo condemns violence, sex scenes in Nigerian films

“Although I’m no longer in danger and my stomach does not give me trouble again, I still have to go for another scan. However, the doctors have given me the assurance that the surgery may not be necessary any longer.”

Ajasa is not only on the verge of full recovery from the ailment that kept him bed-ridden for over four months, but he has also managed to warm his way back to the music studio.

“I have gone back to the studio and I have just recorded a new song, titled Testimony. It is my own way of appreciating God for saving my life. I have started work on a number of projects and I am planning to do a collabo with Tuface Idibia soon,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the[email protected]