ICYMI: What went down at Headies 2019
The 2019 edition of the Headies awards may have come and gone, but it is still dominating discussions in music circles. The ceremony, regarded as one of the biggest events in the country’s entertainment industry, came with many dramatic moments as many of the nation’s top entertainers were on hand. The red carpet was a burst of colours as the crème de la crème of the industry dressed to the nines. While the lucky artistes who emerged winners at the event are already known, there were some undercurrents that people are still talking about. The red carpet provided a lot of talking points, writes TOFARATI IGE

Wizkid’s snub

Though a lot of top entertainers were in attendance at the Headies, one couldn’t help but notice that most of the real heavyweights in the industry were conspicuously absent. The reason was not far-fetched, as ‘star boy’, Wizkid, was at the same moment hosting a show, Starboy Fest, in faraway London. Some of the artistes at Wizkid’s concert were Burna Boy, Tiwa Savage, Olamide, Runtown, Reekado Banks, Naira Marley, among others.

There was no doubt that a lot of attention that was supposed to be on the Headies was focused on the Starboy Fest. One of the performers at the show, Naira Marley even stated that his dance step at the event was bigger than the Headies. He wrote on Twitter, ‘Legwork bigger than Headies 2019.’

It is not known when Wizkid fixed the date for his concert and if he knew well beforehand that his chosen day would clash with the Headies, but some felt the singer should have rescheduled his show. However, Wizkid’s fans argued that the singer was at liberty to stage a show at anywhere and anytime he wanted.

Falz’ horse ride

One of the biggest winners at the awards, Folarin Falana, aka Falz, raised a lot of eyebrows as he rode majestically to the red carpet on horseback. Dressed in a white suit and seated on a white horse, he did look like royalty. Many of his fans applauded him for his creativity which added colour to the red carpet.

Tacha nearly mobbed

Tacha may have been disqualified from Big Brother Naija 2019, but definitely, love for her has not been evicted from her fans’ hearts.

Dressed in a shimmering red gown, the former reality show contestant walked into the venue of the event like a diva. Immediately she stepped in, the red carpet practically erupted in screams as lots of fans swarmed around her to take pictures.

However, she had a bodyguard with her who rudely pushed journalists and other people attempting to take pictures with Tacha. Many complained that as a rising personality in the entertainment industry, Tacha should be accessible to her fans, especially at events such as that. At the end of the day, many that wanted to take pictures with her were disappointed, as some even sustained injuries in the ensuing chaos.

Pretty Mike/Toyin Lawani romance

Call them two of the most eccentric individuals in the social circuit and you wouldn’t be wrong.

Pretty Mike and Lawani got tongues wagging when they recently posed nude in a series of pictures to advertise a herbal product. Many insinuated that a bubbling romance was brewing between them and that it was only a matter of time before the lid was blown open on their ‘relationship’.

As if to further lend credence to the rumours, Pretty Mike and Lawani were at the Headies as a ‘couple’. Dressed like a modern day Rayden (a character in the video game, ‘Mortal Kombat’), Pretty Mike looked exotic in his white outfit. And glued to his side was Lawani, who looked lovely in her green suit. They walked everywhere together, even as they took pictures with several celebrities including Teni D’Entertainer, Teddy A, Bambam, among others.

In subsequent interviews, both Mike and Lawani have said they cannot date each other but their fans may be disappointed about that as many said they looked cute together on the red carpet.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]