I can’t decide hit songs – Runtown
Olushola Ricketts

Douglas Agu, better known as Runtown, has announced plans to release an EP on May 31 amid a legal battle with his former record company, Eric Many.

In January, after a seven-month legal tussle, the Federal High Court in Abuja passed a judgement in favour of Runtown, restraining Eric Manny from interfering in his affairs.

Explaining why he settled for releasing an EP, instead of an album, the singer stated that he didn’t see any difference between both. He said, “For example, last year, international artistes such as Kanye West, Pusha T and Nas, put out albums that had just seven songs each. My new EP, Tradition, has six songs. It is what I truly feel like putting out at the moment. When it’s time for an album, I will do that.”

Although Mad over You is largely regarded as Runtown’s biggest song, he stressed that he had made several hit songs afterwards. He stated, “I have other great songs. Arguably, the biggest original song in the history of Coke Studio Africa was made by me and Nasty C, titled, No Permission. I will continue to focus on making music that I love and leave the rest to the universe.”

He also admitted that he didn’t have the power to determine a hit song. “In the studio, many artistes and producers only play their parts by putting in elements that they consider catchy but when the songs go out, the listeners get to make the decision. I only have control over the quality and level of truth that I put into my music and so far, my instinct has never failed me. People connect with my truth and that is what I owe myself and those who truly love Runtown,” he added.The singer also revealed that a week before dropping the project, he would release a new single, Emotions, off the EP.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]