Adekunle expands entertainment confab
Chux Ohai

The Founder and Convener of the Nigeria Entertainment Conference, Ayeni Adekunle, has said that from 2020 it will become a three-day event.

Adekunle disclosed this during the 2019 edition of the conference, also known as NECLive, held at the Landmark Event Centre in Oniru, Lagos.

Now in its seventh year, NECLive is an annual convergence of practitioners from all sectors of the entertainment industry. During the event, conversations, workshops, exhibitions and master classes are to held in the quest for solutions to challenges facing the industry and to chart a course for its growth and development.

This year’s conference, themed ‘Mobile, Data, Consumers and The Future Of Entertainment’, featured various speakers, including PiggyVest Co- Founder, Odun Ewenyi, who spoke on the topic ‘Democratising Payments’. MTN’s Chief Transformation Officer, Bayo Adekanmbi gave an insightful lecture on ‘Understanding Data For The Purpose of Economic Freedom’, while Fade Ogunro, the CEO of Bookings Africa and Dayo Adeyelure, a marketing professional and founder of Booked By Us both spoke on the topic ‘A Business Of Numbers’.

Having hosted over 100 celebrity guests and speakers, and over 25,000 live participants in its seven editions, Ayeni says a single day showcase will no longer be sufficient. With the planned expansion to a three-day event, the all new NECLive 2.0 will accommodate more activities transforming the conference to a more interactive and experiential event.

In his presentation titled ‘Let’s Do Things Differently’, Ayeni gave a detailed description of his vision for NEC Live moving forward. “From 2020, we’re going to experiment with having the conference over a course of three days. We will consolidate on turning this into a full interactive and experiential experience.”

Shedding more light on the proposed new format, Ayeni adds, “We will experiment with a model that will allow us to keep part of it free and also provide opportunities for those who want to hold sessions, consultations and meetings.”

The Nigerian entertainment industry has grown exponentially in the last two decades. However, much of that growth is domiciled in Lagos, the entertainment capital of the country. As part of the new proposed NECLive 2.0, the conference which has always been held in Lagos will now be held across three locations in Nigeria with Abuja and Port Harcourt in view.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]