Adio The Musical set to go on stage
Chux Ohai

All is set for the second edition of Story-Theatre with Grandma Wura, a musical and theatrical project that showcases the rich culture of Nigeria in dance, music, drama and mime, complemented by spectacular lighting and colourful costumes.

This year’s edition of the project will feature the story of Adio The Musical, a rich theatrical piece written, directed and produced by Bola Edwards, with songs written by Patrick Edwards.

The four-day performances will open on Friday, May 24, and end with a special performance on Monday, May 27, Children’s Day, at Terra Kulture, Victoria Island, Lagos.

Speaking on this year’s programme, Patrick Edwards said, “This year we worked with physically challenged children from Pacelli School of the Blind in Lagos just to emphasise the importance of gifts and talents despite any challenges we face. It is a family show as well as schools, corporate organisations and the entire society.

“We intend to tour with this story to begin to engage society about leadership issues by starting a conversation that a great leader starts with the heart.”

Mrs. Edward explained that Grandma Wura is a character that Proud African Root created to push the Back2MyRoot project. “Story Theatre with Grandma Wura” combines all elements of Grandma Wura’s mission of raising a new generation of leaders through her school tours, contents, events and other activities into a single unforgettable theatrical experience.

“An audience of over 2000 in total is expected to be in attendance which includes schools, families, religious worship groups and government officials as well as celebrities from various works of life,” she said.

She added that ‘Story Theatre with Grandma Wura’ brings together seasoned professionals in acting and theatrical production as well as discover and develop child actors.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]