Govt should fix country, stop harassing young Nigerians –Lese
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

As the music industry keeps expanding, new acts are being discovered daily to give the old artistes a run for their money. One artiste that is currently making a breakthrough into the mainstream music is Idol Records’ new signing, Ebenezer Adeboye, who prefers to be called Lese.

Prior to his unveiling by the record label a few weeks ago, Lese had been exhibiting glimpses of what the fans should expect from.

Speaking with Saturday Beats, Lese who claimed to have been born into a music family, described his style of music as afro-infusion, one that allows him to infuse his style into any sound that comes his way. Armed with a style that may set him apart from the rest, Lese spoke of the frustration he had in his early days when there was no one to help him showcase his talent to the world.

“Since Idol Records came on board, the story has changed for good,” he said, relishing his new home where he feels he will be inspired to do more good music. For him, the journey to success and fulfillment has just begun. He said, “I won’t relax because Idol got my back, I like to keep pushing myself and play my part of the deal well. Hopefully, we will all be happy.”

Recently, Lese was in the studio with wave-making songstress, Teni The Entertainer, and he described their collaboration as spiritual. The singer said his biggest inspiration was meeting Teni for the duet as it turned out that there was more to them coming together than music. He recalled how the chubby female singer inspired him and urged him to put everything in God’s hands.

“Teni asked me if I pray. She advised that I should also fast along with praying because in it lies my success. I was surprised that someone like that could be speaking to me softly and candidly beyond music. I was thrilled. We recorded the song and it turned out to be the biggest of them all. Though a release date has not been set, I can assure my fans that the song and other songs that I would be dropping will be the talk of the town for years,” he said.

Lese also spoke about how Internet fraud has been recently linked to Nigerian musicians, especially those in the hip hop genre, saying, “I don’t judge people; the nation has damaged the youths. It is a case of the pot calling the kettle black. Our nation caused the lingering issues. You hear politicians siphoning billions of naira to offshore accounts. The nation is not helping anybody. I am not supporting anyone but the nation is not supporting youths.”

He hinted that he would love his next collaboration to be with Burna Boy because, according to him, “he’s in a world of his own”.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]