DJ Khaled releases new video filmed days before Nipsey Hussle’s death
More than a month after Nipsey Hussle’s shock murder, hitmaker DJ Khaled has released a music video for their joint track “Higher” featuring footage of the rapper filmed days before his death.

“Recently, I embarked on a soul-searching journey down a road I never thought I would travel in a million years. It began when a tragedy robbed the world of an enlightened soul, a brother, a father, a partner and my friend, Nipsey Hussle,” Khaled said on Instagram.

“Just days prior, he shared his energy and positivity with me on a video set for a song called, ‘Higher,'” the music promoter continued. “After much prayer and reflection; and with the full blessing of the Asghedom family, I am sharing that moment with the world.”

Khaled said all proceeds from the gospel-tinged song would go to Hussle’s children, Emani and Kross.

The video opens with Grammy-nominated Hussle dressed all in blue — the colour of the gang he belonged to, the Crips — rapping about his family’s history in the gritty Los Angeles neighbourhood he called home as well as his father’s journey to the United States from Eritrea.

The decorated singer John Legend contributed vocals for the song’s chorus, posting on Instagram he’s “proud to be a part of this inspiring record with @djkhaled and @nipseyhussle. We lost him too soon.”

“With no shame my peep game and it’s all faith / South Central state of mind, high crime rate / Homicide, hate, gang bangin’ and get you all day / (Yeah) But look at my faith,” Hussle raps in the video.

Widely regarded as a hero of the LA district he worked tirelessly to uplift, Hussle was gunned down in broad daylight outside his own clothing store on March 31.

The artist, entrepreneur and philanthropist had led efforts to eradicate the organized violence ripping apart his hometown. The killing triggered an outpouring of grief in the California metropolis and among Hussle’s music industry peers.

“Higher” is part of Khaled’s new album “Father of Asahd,” released on Friday.

(AFP)