Lewd music didn’t start today – Ara
Tofarati Ige

Female drummer, Ara, believes that though mainstream music is getting all the attention now, the songs usually don’t last long. She said, “Commercial music doesn’t stand the test of time. We have new music being churned out almost every day, and people are just waiting for the next new song. However, our type of music is evergreen. You still listen to the songs of people such as Ebenezer Obey, King Sunny Ade, Fela, Onyeka Onwenu, and the likes. But we rarely have such music now. However, that has not deterred us. We only look for new and innovative ways to get into the mainstream, but we don’t lose our originality in the process. My style of music is gangan fusion – it is the fusion of the talking drum into any genre of music.”

Ara also noted that lewd lyrics didn’t start with this generation of Nigerian musicians. She said, “That is what people want to hear, though not everybody. It is what is in vogue. However, it has been happening from way back. When you listen to certain songs by greats such as Victor Olaiya (Baby Jowo), Fela (Yellow Fever, Shakara Oloje), Shina Peters, among others, you’d notice such themes, it is just that the way it was rendered then was different from what we have now. Then, there was more censorship. I don’t really see anything wrong with it; just that it’s a little bit overboard now.”

Speaking on her latest works, Ara said, “I have a fantastic project at the moment called, I love my Culture. I will be going on a campus tour soon, starting with the University of Lagos. I am taking this to our youths because there is a huge disconnect between them and our culture. I have decided to bridge that gap. I believe that if they are familiar with and love their culture, there are so many vices that we wouldn’t have in society. For instance, the omoluabi concept of Yorubaland, which admonishes one to remember the child of who one is. Our culture teaches us to be respectful, kind, hospitable and hard-working. We will also be working with some of our colleagues in the mainstream, so they can also celebrate their culture to the whole world. If people see that a Wizkid, Burna Boy, Davido, Phyno or Olamide, among others are showing off their cultures, it will really go a long way. I believe that we are all ambassadors of our cultures. The Ooni of Ife is really doing so much in this regard and I appreciate him for it.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]