I’ve helped women regain confidence with dance –Kaffy
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Dubbed Nigeria’s dance queen, trust Kaffy to always talk about her passion – dancing – whenever she is given the opportunity to do so. In a recent chat with the dancer, she revealed that her project for the year was to sensitise the public to the gains of giving the dance industry the same respect other industries in the entertainment sphere receive.

During the interview, she revealed that she had used dance to help unhappy women regain their confidence. “I started out as a fitness trainer and I used dance to make it more enticing to both men and women because we like fun. With dancing, you would have so much fun that you would not believe the number of calories you burn in the process instead of lifting heavy weights. Dance takes the pain away while exercising and you would have fun as you do so.

“I have also used dance therapeutically to help women gain their confidence back. I have had classes where a woman would come for the first time in a large dress and complain that things are not right in her household but by the time the same woman comes for the third class, I would be the one to inform her that her sportswear is getting tighter and her top is shorter, not because she has added more weight but because she has gained self-confidence. I am saying all this because we can use dance to reform, empower, and heal,” she said.

She added that without dance, the Nigerian entertainment industry would not be appealing to the western world like it is today. Kaffy said, “Over the years, I have attended conferences relating to our industry and I have had to fight because dance has been relegated in this industry. I always had to tell people in the industry that they do not discuss about the dance sector of the industry despite the fact that the entertainment industry rides on the back of dancers to get to the other side of the world. If not for our dances, our music would not get to America. Imagine most of our hit songs from artistes like Davido, PSquare and the likes without dancers.

“This is why I am sacrificing so much for dance because it has helped me to stay off the street and maintain my sanity. I want people to understand the power of dance because before human beings could speak, we moved; we gesticulated and used actions to express ourselves. That is how powerful dance is as it can be used to celebrate, or as a medium to proclaim peace. It is even good for our well-being because I have never seen anybody that dances sad. Knowing the power of dance, I decided to use it to help people.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]