Divorce: I’m rediscovering my love of men, Wendy Williams reveals
American Talk show host, Wendy Williams has opened up on her ongoing divorce from estranged husband Kevin Hunter, saying that she is rediscovering love of men again.

Williams who reiterated that she is still single made this known during her “Hot Topics’ segment on Tuesday’s show.

The 54-year-old mother of one said she was reclaiming her life and enjoying rediscovering her ‘love of men’ as she spoke on her divorce.

The star also noted that she had the ultimate bachelorette pad high atop of everything with a really good view.

She added that a change from the New Jersey home shared with Hunter has made her to reclaim her life back.

READ ALSO: File application for Bulkachuwa’s disqualification, Tribunal tells Atiku

“I am reclaiming my life, I don’t have a boyfriend, but I’m rediscovering my love of men. I do date and I date pretty often”

“I go out a lot because I’m a good time girl. I like to have fun; I am right now a young and pretty New York City girl.

“However, I am working on my divorce pleasantly right now.

“As for our son, Kevin Hunter, Jr., he is currently home from college and sees both of his parents,” Williams said.

Williams also addressed photos that emerged over the weekend of her with a man at an NYC fundraiser, stressing that he was not a new boyfriend, but a member of her show security team.

Earlier this year, Williams filed for divorce from Hunter following 21 years of marriage after his mistress allegedly gave birth.

She noted that they share a 19-year-old son Kevin Jr., adding that child support may be an issue in the case.

Wendy is seeking for their marital property to be equitably divided and establish a child support amount.

Meanwhile, Kevin has since responded seeking spousal support and attorney fees from Wendy, the case is still pending.

Wendy got married to Robert Morris her first husband and got separated after five months followed by eighteen months of divorce proceedings.

On November 30, 1997, Williams married her second husband, Kevin Hunter, the marriage was blessed with a son Kevin Hunter Jr. born in 2000.

Williams announced she was living in a sober house due to her past cocaine addiction, her husband and son were the only two who knew about it before the show aired.

On April 11, Williams’ representative confirmed she had filed for divorce from Hunter.

(NAN)