Blessing Egbe returns with Ten Virgins
Chux Ohai

Ace producer and director, Blessing Egbe, has a surprise package for movie fans that is entirely different from any of his previous chart-busting films and it is entitled, Ten Virgins.

The new movie, which has so far cost over N50m to produce, is expected to rate higher than blockbusters, Two Bribes and a Baby, Lekki Wives and The Women, in terms of budget, size and quality of story-telling.

Coming from a producer believed to be gifted with the proverbial Midas touch, a few sneak previews of Ten Virgins has already got critics tagging it an “ambitious movie.” This is, no doubt, an open endorsement of Egbe’s genius.

Better known for doing things differently, the producer hit the limelight a couple of years ago with her popular TV series, Lekki Wives, in which she featured mostly unknown stars and sold out on different platforms across Nigeria. Her latest offering, Ten Virgins, is a musical drama woven around 10 maidens, who like the young chaste women in the Biblical story from which the movie derives its title, must remain faithful amidst temptations, in their commitment to the greatest prince in the land.

The cast of the movie include stars, such as Honey Adum, Chinoso Young, Damilare Kuku, Blessed Effiong, Bukky Okorodus, Thin Tall Tony, Leelee Byoma, Jade Dunni, Osareme Inedenebor, Chidera Makata, Oge Aniegboka, Ola Taiwo, Sergi Emmanuel, Tunbosun Aiyedehin and Priye George.

Speaking on the film, Blessing says, “My intention is to tell a story that is unique and entertaining. We have achieved that goal, so far. This movie derives its strength from the quality of story-telling, not just the actors and actresses. We paid attention to technical details and all the elements that makes a movie great. “I am very confident and hopeful that people will like this. Nollywood needs substance and that substance starts from the depth of the stories we tell. Here, we have a good story that is well told in Ten Virgins. It is a modern day musical. It is so simple, yet so captivating. Thinking about this movie alone makes me so excited that goose pimples break out all over my body. I know that a lot of people will like this movie.”

Ten Virgins will be in the cinemas as from August 2, 2019.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]