Why acting has displaced my music career – Ayoola Ayolola
One-time Project Fame West Africa winner and actor, Ayoola Ayolola, talks to KORE OGIDAN about music, movies and fatherhood

What influenced your decision to go into acting fully?

I had always known that there was the possibility I could act. I was bored one day when I saw an advert on television calling for an audition and I went for it. While waiting for my turn, the organisers came out and announced that they had found what they wanted and that we could go. However, while we were leaving, one of the organisers came to me and asked me to read for a role. I eventually had my audition though they had told everyone that the audition was over.

Did you quit music to focus on your acting career?

I didn’t quit music; I just put it on hold. I released about two songs while acting but I am currently focused more on acting than music.

Tell us about your entry into the movie industry.

I had my first professional acting experience in 2009 and it was quite adventurous. It was so because I had never done it before but I’m glad I tried it. After the first project, I attended several auditions to get another role. The experience of going for many auditions wasn’t very palatable because it felt like my time was being wasted. I would go for auditions and it would seem like I did well but I wouldn’t get called back. Some other times, if I got called back, there could be the delay of the project not starting in earnest. It was a roller coaster of emotions. The most prevalent emotion was that of longing for something and having to wait for a long time to get it. Sadly, I don’t remember the title and the producer of the first project I was on. The director however was a Ghanaian called Dickson Jakpa.

Did you have fears being in front of the camera your first time?

Honestly, there was no fear. I had been in front of cameras before, but as a musician. I had done shows and concerts with my role model, Mike Aremu, the saxophonist. What was different was me doing something I had never done before professionally. My main concern was to get it right.

Do you think Project Fame gave you an easy entry into the movie industry?

Project Fame is for music, and the movie industry is different; so, it didn’t particularly give me an easy entrance. It however gave me a soft landing because there was a level of recognition – I was the guy who won Project Fame. It didn’t change the fact that I still had to work hard to prove myself. It made it easier for me a little because I wasn’t particularly an unknown face. The best way I can explain this is that it helped me prove myself faster. I believe I had to work more to prove myself than I would have if I didn’t win the competition. There was already a doubt that I probably couldn’t perform as an actor because I was a musician.

Do you think the industry favours recognised faces over talented ones?

I don’t really think so. At the end of the day, people want their projects remembered for their essence and not just to trend briefly. There are definitely anomalies here and there and as much as I beg to differ with the question, there are some people who would rather go for a known face than for someone who can deliver a character effectively. I don’t know if it had always been like that because I never noticed it.

However, there are many people who can interpret several characters; so, the competition is relatively tougher. Most actors are beginning to recognise this and they consequently hone their crafts more. Inasmuch as some people still favour known faces over character, more people go for professionalism and delivery. It’s good if you have both though.

Do you consider yourself an established actor?

I don’t feel like a fulfilled actor yet. I’m on the way to being fulfilled but my fear is that when I get to the point of fulfillment, there would be something else I’d want to achieve. I’m not the actor I was, and I’m not the actor I want to be. Everyone wants to be the best in their fields. This is also contextual because in the arts industry, there isn’t necessarily the best. We often try to box ourselves and put up a pedestal. At the end of the day, we are all unique in our different ways. I’m not sure I want to be the best actor in any room, if there is anything like that. I just want to be the best at any role that I interpret.

If you weren’t in the entertainment industry, what corporate career path would you have chosen?

I would most likely have been an IT specialist, or a security analyst. I actually studied Biochemistry at Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State. I attended two primary schools because I had my early life in Kano State where I was born. For my secondary education, I attended Crescent International School, Kano, and Binta International School, Ejigbo, Lagos State.

When did you discover that you could sing?

I was about five or six when I had my first major performance. I was nine when I started joining acapella and choir groups and singing in churches. I recorded my first album at the age of 16 but I never released it because I went to the university. When I got into the university, I heard how people did their music and I realised I wasn’t ripe enough and decided to put it aside while working on my craft. I also released songs while in school. I put them on radio and that was successful for a while. Then, I started going for competitions, and ended up in Project Fame.

My parents knew I would be in the arts before I even knew. I got my support and foundation from them. My father was a choir director for 10 years and that triggered my interest. My father was the executive producer of my first album and my mum, who was also an executive producer, sorted out all the welfare.

How would you rate the industry in Nigeria?

The industry is way better than it used to be in terms of exposure. People are getting more successful and the business is growing. Many people are looking to Nigeria for content and many Nigerians are becoming great exports. Our music has gone from local to being highly recognised. Before, we had to compromise but now, we just do what we have to do and get recognised.

What inspires your style of music?

My style of music was influenced by listening to a lot of Fela and Lagbaja’s music. However, I’m careful not to put myself in a box. There were times I did RnB, soul, and reggae, before I did alternative sounds. But my next body of work will be a bit different. I don’t want to be limited to a genre of music.

What do you think about the dearth of competitions (acting and music) in Nigeria?

It’s very sad because Nigeria has a lot of raw talents. I feel very lucky to have had such platforms to showcase myself; otherwise, I’d still have been struggling. It’s sad for whatever reason the shows ebbed.

How does the spotlight treat you?

The spotlight has treated me very kindly. I’m blessed to have wonderful people around me who look up to me and enjoy what I do. It is the platform on which I’ve built my life and I’m building my family. I see the spotlight as an evidence and reward for what I do. It’s a blessing to go somewhere and people recognise you. It means they are happy with what you are doing. I’ve had people come to me and thank me for putting smiles on their faces. That makes me feel good and it brings me a level of fulfillment. It’s part of my checks and balances. I don’t crave for it but I will keep on working hard and enjoying it.

How has fatherhood changed your life?

Of all the things that have changed me, fatherhood has impacted me the most. There is an unspoken sense of responsibility that comes with it. I understand that my decisions affect my son’s life. There is a little human who looks up to me and calls me ‘dad’;­­­­­­­­­ someone who cries to me when he is disappointed and reaches to me for comfort. It’s a completely different feeling and no form of achievement can give me that much pleasure. It’s a different life and destiny, another channel of blessing that has come through me. I’m grateful that God has given me the responsibility to nurture him till he’s old enough to take care of himself. It’s the best feeling in the world. The first time I saw his face, I felt a kind of peace that is unexplainable. Nothing else mattered and everything was okay just by looking at him.

What’s your relationship with your son’s mother?

We have a wonderful relationship. Our son has to have the best life and we are working tirelessly to give him that.

How do you like to dress?

I like to be comfortable and feel good in what I wear. I also like to dress appropriately for the event I’m attending.

How do you relax?

I love playing video games and watching movies.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]