God called me to revive comedy in South-West –Gbenga Adeyinka
Tofarati Ige

Most comedians believe that for them to turn a profit, they have to organise shows in major cities such as Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt. However, frontline comedian, Gbenga Adeyinka, has said God called him to specifically revive comedy in the south-western part of the country.

According to him, that was why he took his annual show, Laffmatazz, out of Lagos, Speaking to Sunday Scoop, Adeyinka stated, “About 10 years ago, I got a divine call to develop stand-up comedy in the south-western part of the country. Next year, I will do a concert in Lagos, but for the past 10 years, God has been good to us and we’ve built new comedy kings. We have given several people platforms outside Lagos in places such as Ibadan, Osogbo, and Abeokuta. You don’t have to come to Lagos to be a big comedy brand. Stay where you are and conquer your market.

“Some people have said it is the fear of competition that drove me out of Lagos but it is not. It is the desire to carve a new niche. God called me to revive comedy in the South-West.”

Known to mostly anchor corporate events, Gbenga said he hadn’t always been that way. He stated, “There was a day I went for an event in Abuja and I was just supposed to do stand-up comedy. But I saw a lady who compered the event and the way she did it blew my mind. My strength is being able to compere and crack jokes. I then made up my mind to develop myself in that area and the rest, as they say, is history.”

Recalling his days of little beginnings, Adeyinka said, “The smallest amount I’ve ever been paid to perform is N15,000. I was paid N7,500 upfront and when I got to the event, the students begged me to help them pay the band out of the advance given to me because I was the one that helped them arrange for the musicians. I then paid the band N4,000 out of my money, and till today, I’ve not got the balance.”

READ ALSO: Nigerians’ll soon access single-digit interest car loans, says FG

On how he knew he had hit the jackpot in his career, he said, “I knew I had become successful when I did the Star TV Game Show in 36 states. Though the money had not come then, seeing myself on TV enjoying what I did convinced me that if I kept at it, there was a bright future.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]