Actresses who ‘bleach’ have nothing to offer – Adebimpe Oyebade
Tofarati Ige

Background

I was born and bred in Akure, the Ondo State capital. However, I am a native of Ijero in Ekiti State. I am the last child of the family.

As a child, I wanted to become a newscaster and model.

Education

I attended a lot of schools actually. For my secondary education, I went to Asset College and Omolere School. Then, I studied English at the Ekiti State University (formerly University of Ado Ekiti). I underwent my National Youth Service Corps scheme in Benin.

Career

I got into the movie industry by attending an audition in Lagos I learnt about on social media. The title of the first movie I acted in was Agbede Meji (Crossroads) by Yomi Fabiyi. My experience on set the first time was quite challenging but I believed that I could do it. The director on that set was Abbey Lanre and I had heard so much about him that he is strict. But I listened to him and did whatever he said I should do. By doing that, I was able to perform excellently in the movie.

Some of the other movies I have acted in include Silent Cry, Teniola Akebaje, Romance, Wounded Heart, Broken Face, Unravelled, Eshe, and Default, among others.

Parents’ reaction

My parents have always supported my career. Initially, my mum was a bit skeptical. She asked me if I was sure it was what I really wanted to do. She wanted me to travel, study a professional course and go for a master’s degree. But I maintained that it was what I wanted and she gave me her backing.

Roles

I would love to play the role of a powerful, cruel warrior. And I’m working towards making that a reality soon.

As for directors and producers I would like to work with, I have done a TV commercial with Kemi Adetiba but I would love to work with her on a movie. I would also like to work with Biodun Stephens.

When it comes to actors, I would like to work with Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde, Genevieve Nnaji, and Ramsey Nouah.

Production

Being a producer is one of the highlights of my career. I have produced four movies – Dear Sister, Entrapped, 0707 (A Day to Remember) and Adebimpe Omooba.

One of the challenges I faced while shooting the movies was getting good locations. It could be quite taxing, especially when one is a perfectionist. Getting the right cast was also an issue. It wasn’t about the money to pay them but getting them to spend enough time on set because I don’t like to rush my shoots.

Challenges

The job is quite time-consuming and stressful.

Lessons

I have learnt to be patient. A patient person would never go wrong. Don’t rush things; rather, let them come to you. I’m not saying one shouldn’t work towards his or her goals, but don’t give up easily because you haven’t got the desired results. You can achieve anything and get anywhere if you believe, pray, work hard and are patient.

Skin colour

My favourite part of my body is my skin colour as it makes me unique in the industry. I’m dark and I’m proud of it. As a matter of fact, I have got movie roles because of my dark skin. It is a blessing to me.

Actresses who ‘bleach’ their skins are not confident and don’t believe in themselves. They also probably don’t have anything to offer, because if they do, they wouldn’t go down that route. Dark-skinned girls are doing well in the industry. I have never been discriminated against because of my complexion.

Modelling

I have practically been a model all my life, even before my acting career. I was a child model but because of school, I didn’t take it full-time. However, when I graduated from the university, I started doing commercial modelling full-time. I have worked with brands such as House of Tara, and Glam Cosmetics, among others.

Fame

Fame has robbed me of my privacy. I cannot just post whatever I want on social media without getting judged. Also, I can’t vent my anger when I’m angry.

A lot of people don’t understand that we are also humans with emotions. Everything about us is in the public space and there is nothing we can do about it.

Personality

Off-screen, I am a very reserved and cool person. I am not outgoing and I cherish my privacy. I am a loner and I don’t make friends. When I am off work, I just stay at home, watching movies or reading romance books.

Other interests

I have a company called Mo Luxury where we sell fashion items, including clothes and jewellery. I also have a skincare brand called Just Organics.

Role models

In the industry, I admire Omotola, Genevieve, and Toyin Abraham. Outside the industry, I love Oprah Winfrey.

Fans

A male fan once sent me a picture of his manhood out of the blue. I was shocked and I blocked him right away after tongue lashing him. I still get lots of messages like that on Instagram but I just ignore them.

Harassment

It is normal for a man to ask a woman out. Even when I was in the university, I was approached by lecturers; so, it is not restricted to the entertainment industry. Some senior colleagues have shown interest in dating me but I politely turned them down. One has to be diplomatic when dealing with such situations.

Relationship

I am not in a relationship at the moment. I am trying to focus on my career. My ideal man has to be God-fearing, honest and presentable.

Fashion

I love being simple but classy.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]