I can still make song bigger than Igi Aruwe – Biyi Samuel
Tofarati Ige

Singer, Biyi Samuel, is widely known for his hit song, Igi Aruwe. However, years after releasing that song, Samuel has not had another hit of that magnitude. Many had even concluded that he could not make any other song bigger than Igi Aruwe. However, he disagrees with that insinuation.

In an interview with Sunday Scoop, he stated, “I know people will say whatever they want, but I’m telling you categorically that I can make a song that will be bigger than Igi Aruwe. There is something called God’s time and that is what has been happening. I can feel God’s hands on my new album; so, in a way, I believe it is time for a second chance.

“For the first time in a long while, I will be releasing an album titled, Ogo De. I have been recording songs over the years, but I didn’t just release them.”

On the inspiration behind the album, Samuel said, “I met a popular prophet and he was shocked when he learnt I was the one who sang Igi Aruwe. He asked where I had been and he said he wanted me to release an album. Immediately, I prayed to God to give me a song that would surpass Igi Aruwe. There’s no way you’ll talk about my career without mentioning Igi Aruwe, but I want a song that will be bigger than it. Right there, I heard the words, Ogo De. And everybody who has heard the song has been embracing it.”

The singer also maintained that this was the divine time for him to release an album. “I believe this is God’s appointed time for me. Many years ago, I was worried that my fans might have forgotten about me, but I no longer have those fears. Whenever I minister, people receive me warmly, and that makes me know they still like me,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]