My promise to mum won’t make me act pornographic movies –Charles Okocha
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Popular actor and Instagram comedian, Charles Okocha, has spent over a decade in the Nigeria movie industry and has played several roles except anyone involving nudity.

However, during the week, the actor posted a snippet of his recent project on his Instagram page. In the video, the actor was seen to be seemingly having aggressive sex with a lady while promising her N50,000 for her service. Apparently, the lady in the video could not take the aggressiveness any longer, so she stopped, rejected the money and left the room.

In a chat with Saturday Beats, the actor turned singer stated that he would never endorse pornography or feature in such a movie due to a promise he made to his mother.

He said, “There is no way I can feature in a pornographic movie or act nude because of my mother and the way I was raised. My mother supports me in everything I do but what I promised her was that I was not going to feature in such movies. That is something I would never do because of my mother. I can act crazy roles and even appear half naked by wearing briefs but I can never be stark naked in a movie.

“People have a right to their opinion but I am not endorsing pornography in Nollywood. I portray any role that is given to me professionally and that is what makes me an actor. As long as the producers that pay me to do a job are happy with my work, then I am okay. My true fans understand that it is just make-believe and I do not see why people should be mad about it.

“Why should I promote soft pornography? I have two children – male and female. I am a responsible father. I am a realist so when I am given a job, once I am sure that it is the right thing to do, I do it very well. I see no reason why people should get worked up over something they ought not to get worked up about. Before I put up the post, I made people know that it was from a movie scene and it is my profession so I see nothing wrong in posting it and asking people to wait till the movie is out because it is an interesting one. I see nothing wrong in what I posted because people did not see me stark naked, all they saw was an impression of me having sex aggressively with a lady. It is just make-believe.”

While some Nigerians condemned the video, especially as this is the month of Ramadan and Muslims are fasting worldwide, the actor told Saturday Beats that some fans even asked why he did not expose his private parts. “If you go through the comments people posted after I uploaded that video, you would see where some people were asking why I was not stark naked. Some said that it was the reason why they like foreign movies because those ones would expose their bodies. The truth is that you cannot please everybody,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]