Kidnap of Buhari’s in-law shows Daura not given special treatment —Presidency
Current killings still lower than Jonathan’s time- Presidency

Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja

The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, says the abduction of the District Head of Daura, Alhaji Musa Uba, who is also the husband to President Muhammadu Buhari’s niece, Hajiya Bilki, shows that security agencies are not giving any town preferential treatment.

Incidentally, however, the Commissioner of Police, Katsina State, Sanusi Buba, relocated to Daura over the weekend in a bid to rescue Uba.

The President’s spokesman said this during an interview on Kakaaki, a breakfast television programme on AIT.

The abducted district head is also the father-in-law to Buhari’s Aide-de-camp, Col. Mohammed Abubakar

Responding to a question on the increasing cases of banditry as evidenced by the abduction of the head of the President’s township, Shehu said, “Well, that has happened but I think that brings the message home that it is a national problem and that because the President comes from Daura, that is not to say there cannot be crime in Daura or Daura will be specially treated.

“The army said two days ago that there are clear pointers that these problems are beyond criminality.”

Shehu, however, scored the Buhari administration 98 per cent in the fight against insurgency.

He said, “If you ask me about the biggest security (challenge) we met on the ground, it is Boko Haram terrorism and I will score this administration 98 per cent coming this far because Boko Haram is now confined to the fringes of Lake Chad. As a matter of fact, they jump in and out and mainly occupy communities that have not been re-occupied by their owner.”

Responding to a report by the acting Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu’s claim that 1,071 persons lost their lives in crime-related cases across the country in the first quarter of 2019, Shehu said despite the recent spike in killings, banditry and kidnapping, the statistics was still better than that of the previous administration.

The President said although he would not want to compare figures, the facts remain sacred.

He added, “Shehu said, “Yes, there has been a recent spike (in attacks) but this is not to suggest that this has never happened in the country and they are beginning just now because President Buhari is out of the country.

“You mentioned the numbers but I want to say from our own point of view in the Presidency, we have avoided comparing numbers because it will lead to the same criticisms that some people have made of being insensitive because even if it is one life of a Nigerian that is lost, it is important, it cannot be justified, it cannot be defended.

“But anybody who takes the trouble to check the Presidential website; at some point, Femi (Adesina) had done the numbers and the staggering numbers put on display coming from the past are nothing comparable to these numbers but we will not take it lightly.”

He also defended the decision of the President to travel to the United Kingdom for 11 days during the height of insecurity.

Shehu said the President was entitled to rest even as he claimed that Buhari was in firm control of the nation during his time away.

The President’s spokesman said security agencies were doing their best but noted that things would not change overnight but would take some time.