Met Gala 2019 showcases designers creativity with colours
Met Gala 2019 will showcase designers creativity and the theme for the event is `Camp’ which was derived from Susan Sontag, 1964 easy `Notes on Camp’.

The Met Gala is always held on the first Monday of May (the only day of the year besides Thanksgiving, Christmas Day, and New Year’s Day when the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Fifth Avenue location is closed to the public).

This year, it lands on May 6.

This annual style soiree has several monikers — most notably the Met Gala and, more formally, the Costume Institute Benefit — and brings together some of the hottest names in fashion, music, movies and sports.

A-listers come dressed to impress for a photo-op on the famous Metropolitan Museum of Art’s steps at this black-tie event, but the Met Gala is not all about getting the perfect paparazzi shot.

READ ALSO: If Nigeria is to survive as one entity, she’s in dire need of a deliverer

Fashion lovers from the high society also show up to celebrate the opening night of the Costume Institute’s spring exhibition.

Every year, guests typically plan their elaborate couture ensembles around the exhibition’s unique theme, and celebrities have lots of fun showing up in stunning (and sometimes controversial) get-ups.

Among the pieces on display would be dazzling looks from Off-White, Schiaparelli, Moschino and much more.

The invitation calls for “Studied Triviality,” a phrase borrowed from a quote by Wilde.

In an 1895 interview, the poet and playwright described his camp masterpiece The Importance of Being Earnest.

“Exquisitely trivial, a delicate bubble of fancy and it has its philosophy. That, we should treat all the trivial things of life very seriously, and all the serious things of life, with sincere and studied triviality.”

This year’s theme is far more fun and would give guests the opportunity to play with colours, styles and allow designers to run wild with their creative license.

Each year, the best and brightest from the worlds of fashion, film, music and beyond descend on the Met for the gala.

This year’s co-chairs include Lady Gaga, Harry Styles, Serena Williams, and Alessandro Michele of Gucci (which is serving as a co-sponsor) would join Anna Wintour at the top of the museum steps, greeting guests as they arrive.

The night of the Met Gala, when the stars arrive, Vogue will stream the carpet on Instagram Live.

They will give exclusive red carpet interviews and coverage of the famous arrivals.

(NAN)