I was too playful my sons couldn’t grow up with me-Yinka Davies
Singer and actress, Yinka Davies, speaks on her love for country, culture and motherhood with KORE OGIDAN

You operate in a genre of entertainment where people of the new generation show little interest. How have you managed to still remain relevant despite all?

That’s an interesting question. One thing is sure; I remain focused and consistent, regardless of whatever tantrums are thrown at me. You must believe in what you profess you love doing. I love jazz and traditional sound. Consistency is very important and you must be relentless in exercises and forging ahead. It is fun and you must not see it as a lot of weight. Once you see it as heavy, you lose the essence of the beauty of the craft and the art.

Does it bother you that this genre of art doesn’t come with as much monetary reward as it typically should?

Of course, there is a major concern regarding funding but that is not the primary concern. The first concern should be service. You are rendering a service and you have to be on top of your game every time. Your primary objective should be being useful and being of service. Sometimes, people can take advantage of one’s availability for service; however, there is a lot to put in. This situation affects every profession in the country, not just entertainment. It is a huge conundrum. The question should be in addressing it – how do we put our country back on the path of labour, respect and honour?

How can your colleagues in the entertainment industry help to build the nation to the state it should be?

Entertainment is very strong and we are the voice of the people. We are like town criers. We have to sit together and continue to tell people that there is a lot to be done. We need to stop cursing like we used to do and address the situation, without insubordination. It is imperative to address the basic needs of people in the country. Once we do that, more people will understand and it will catch on.

You’ve lived all your life in Lagos. Where did you get influenced to pursue your indigenous style of art?

Lagos is a potpourri of all types of people. However, I think it is because of the joy I derive in being Nigerian. I love Nigeria and everything about it. When you love your country, everything about it will appeal to you regardless of the conditions around. For instance, I believe our railway stations can be revived. It is when you love your country you would be able to say good things about it. I love the indigenousness and cultures of the different tribes in the country. The diversity is captivating and I want to celebrate it.

With your passion for Nigeria, why haven’t you gone into politics to help grow the country as required?

That’s simply because I am not a politician. I am an artiste who loves her country. The question to ask ourselves is, ‘What can we do to make the people get up and go and be glad to do so?’ Can we do that? Can we try? Is there a possibility that the people can get up and make a difference? That’s what Hubert Ogunde did when he started out. He went to the markets and taught them what civilisation required. And people started donating money to fix their roads. He taught them about vaccination and people keyed in; that’s how it should be done. Entertainment is about information, and how you inform the people in your community will reflect on you over time. I believe we are now coming to a place where we would make sense of what we do.

You’ve been in the entertainment industry for 32 years. How would you compare things when you started out with what obtains now?

With the phase music is in right now, you can’t blame the current crop of artistes. There are no mentors as such, so they have to keep giving people all kinds of sounds. This is about fading off now and serious music can put us back on the world map.

Looking at artistes who make other genres of music where the instrumental covers for the lack of strong lyrical content. How does that resonate with you?

I don’t feel bad about it at all. You need to see the holistic part of everything; don’t just focus on one part. See how it affects the generation – is it supporting or building anyone or anything, instilling something in the people? If it is not, you need to wait it out and let it take its course. Leave it to people who listen to such music. You allow people to evolve by themselves. You cannot lord yourself over people. Just continue on your journey because you know why you’ve been brought here to do your thing.

What were you like as a kid?

I am the first of six kids (five now), and I was very playful and notorious. I got into trouble with my parents many times. I used to even climb trees.

Eventually, I was able to see that in the course of my notoriety, I saw people differently and how differently they reacted to me. Slowly and overtime, I realigned and put things in perspective. I knew I loved culture, so I toed the path and here I am today. I love cultures of all types and sit down and watch them mesmerisingly. I want to learn many languages but I can’t learn them all. I, however, can sing different national anthems.

Where did you study?

I attended Reagan Memorial Baptist Primary School, Onike, Yaba, Lagos, for my elementary education, and Our Lady of Apostles Secondary School, Yaba, for my secondary education. I didn’t go to the university by choice but I’m making up for it by being informed daily. However, I’d like to persuade anyone who has the opportunity to get an education. If I studied for a degree, it would have been in Agriculture. I would have loved to be a farmer. In fact, I didn’t get any training for my craft – it is pure talent.

How much has faith influenced your life?

It impacts my life in every way and has taken over my life. It is who I am now. My faith is a lifestyle and you can’t divorce me from it. For me, it is not a religion – it is my life. You don’t find your faith, God finds you. For me, this happened in 1991 and I am very grateful for it.

Which comes more naturally to you – stage or screen acting?

Stage, because it is stronger and more alive. The energy is consuming. I can be on the street all day and get to the theatre, dress up in five minutes and go on stage to perform. That happened recently even. Some people saw me at the beginning of the show, setting up and at 7pm, they saw me change my costume in 10 minutes and perform on the same set I built. Theatre gives me more power to exert my energy. It’s not the same with music because music is light. With music, I have to sit and people dote on me all the time till I get on stage. With theatre, it drains you and you have to rehearse very often and then perform. There is no respect as theatre doesn’t care whether you have a broken leg or not. That’s the discipline and I learnt it from theatre.

How have you been able to juggle motherhood with your career?

My sons didn’t grow up with me. I was too playful and I didn’t want my kids seeing me that playful. When I had my first son, I sent him to the people who would take care of him. Interestingly, it wasn’t an emotional parting. My sense of being responsible as a woman came when my niece was born. At this time, my son was about 11. By the time my niece came, it was easy to gravitate towards making sure she was fine and protected. I don’t regret my decision; I’ve learnt and moved on. They live with me now and that’s fine. One shouldn’t regret things. The relationship with my kids is beautiful. They are charting a course for themselves and becoming men. For me, the work is done. It is the Lord that owns them now. I’m just the caretaker.

Do you have phobias?

I am not an animal person. My family loves animals but I appreciate them from a distance. I can touch them but I won’t buy them or keep them as pets. They are beautiful but they aren’t my thing.

How do you like to dress?

I dress, period. I love colours and I enjoy combining them. I see now that I am very in love with the beauty of colours. The Lord has a way of arranging colours that nobody can gainsay.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]