Dancing is fulfilling in Nigeria if done right – Ijodee
Tofarati Ige

Despite what many think that being a dancer is not lucrative in Nigeria, accomplished dancer, Adedayo Liadi, aka Ijodee, says it is a fulfilling craft. He said, “Yes, it is fulfilling to be a professional dancer in Nigeria if you do it right. You have to think of the managerial aspect and how to sustain your crew. There is a difference between being a solo dancer and belonging to a group. It is not everybody that knows how to manage a crew; so, you have to be definite about what type of dancer you want to be. If there is no good sense of management, a dancer’s career wouldn’t last.”

Speaking on his experience at the Ogun State-organised African Drum Festival, Ijodee said, “I was there last year to perform, and this year, I was back as one of the crew. There was a huge improvement this year in every aspect and the ambiance was more enjoyable. There were also about 20,000 people there and you hardly have such crowds at events outside Lagos. I really commend the Ogun State Government for organising it, and the entertainers for so many innovative performances. If the government can continue with the initiative, it would be recognised as one of Africa’s best festivals in no time.

The dancer also urged other states to take a cue from Ogun State. “If other states can do something similar by bringing people from all over the world together in one place, Nigeria would be a better place to live in. And it will also take a lot of youths off the streets, especially those that are talented. Other states can host dance or drama festivals; it doesn’t have to be about drums. However, in doing such festivals, they should focus on the youth, and not on the stars that have already made it. That’s why I don’t support what some of these telecommunications’ companies are doing by doling out money to established stars. They could rather use that money to affect the lives of the masses.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]