Tiwa Savage quits Mavin Records, lands international recording deal
Chux Ohai

Highflying and talented singer, Tiwatope Savage, popularly known as Tiwa Savage, is in the news again. This time, it is about her new recording deal with one of the world’s leading music and entertainment companies, the American Universal Music Group, shortly after calling it quits with music producer Don Jazzy’s Mavin Records.

Ever since the news was broken by the management of the UMG on social media and affirmed by a tell-tale post on Tiwa’s Instagram, showing the singer posing for a photograph with the Chief Executive Officer of UMG, Sir Lucian Grainge and other members of his team, her teeming fans in Nigeria and the rest of Africa appear to have gone wild with excitement.

According to the terms of the new agreement, which was signed by both parties on Thursday, Tiwa’s new works will, henceforth, be released in over 60 countries across the world through the UMG.

Reacting to the development in what seems like a farewell message posted on his Instagram page, Don Jazzy thanked the singer for seven fruitful years on Mavin Records. He wrote, “Our darling, Tiwatope. We at Mavin would like to say a very big thank you for being such an inspiration to all of us, a friend, a sister. It’s been an epic journey with you and we are very proud of what we have achieved together.

READ ALSO: Without Moremi, the Yoruba would never have survived – Ooni

“As you start this new chapter in your life we want you to know that we are solidly behind you and can’t wait for the world to see what we have always believed you can be. Your jersey as the `First Lady of Mavin’ will forever be yours as we do not intend to fill that position with anyone else.

“We love you from the bottom of the heart and pray GOD’s blessings to continue to follow you.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]