I’ve had my share of women, no time for them –Bolanle Ninalowo
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Although he has played several roles in the Nigerian movie industry since he joined about four and a half years ago, most people still see Bolanle Ninalowo as a playboy probably due to some roles he portrayed earlier in his career.

In a chat with Saturday Beats, the actor was quick to say that it “is just part of the job”.

He said, “Some people may see me as a playboy but it is an act. I am human and I am a man; I have had my fair share of women and playing around but I can only speak of what I have done. This is who I am. What people think of me differs but when I think of myself, I think of the result of my life and what I do. The end always justifies the means. Women compliment me all the time that I am handsome but it does not go beyond that.”

Known for flaunting his wife on his social media pages, especially on Instagram, the actor stated that he was unapologetic about his actions, adding that he has the right to use his social media accounts as he pleases.

“I do not flaunt my wife on social media; my page shows who I am. I do not flaunt it. I celebrate what I have and who I am as a person. If I featured in a movie, I would share the poster of the movie online, likewise when I signed an endorsement deal. I communicate with the whole world through my page so why can I not talk about my wife or kids? They are mine, so I talk about them on my page. It is my page and I reserve the right to do whatever I want with it,” Ninalowo said.

Fondly referred to as Nino, the actor described his wife as the most supportive partner in the world. He said, “I started acting after I married my wife and she was okay with my decision. I was an accountant at some point in America before I came to Nigeria to become an actor. I have a very supportive wife and things are not always easy for everybody as there are ups and downs in life, however, I cannot talk about yesterday because it is in the past but all I can tell you is that my wife and I are doing very fine.

READ ALSO: Video about Bobrisky was for posterity sake –Charles Anwurum

“She loves me and I love her as well. She is not based in Nigeria, luckily for me. I work every time and sometimes, I have to travel so I am very busy. I am not a saint but I am a very serious minded person. I work every day and have no time for women. I have had that share of my life. I thank God for grace. I am not saying that I am a perfect human being but I try to do the little that I can do.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]