Most agents portray models as prostitutes –Etim brothers
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Twin brothers, Joseph and Emmanuel Etim, are the brains behind ‘Models on the Island Africa’, a boot camp aimed at empowering models. However, in a chat with Saturday Beats, they lamented that it was sad that many modelling agents pimp their girls to customers for financial rewards.

Joseph said, “We have been in this industry for over a decade and we have always heard about how modelling agents would expect their girls to sleep with them or other people before they can get a job. These girls pass through so many challenges in this industry and that is why my twin brother and I decided to do a camp for models. After the five-day camp, the models would be able to know how to have a breakthrough in the industry.

“Most of these girls are naïve; the agents and models are the major problems in the fashion industry. Many models are too desperate for fame and money. When these young girls get into the industry, these modelling agencies tell them a lot of lies and they believe these lies. That is why when they toss them around; they follow orders because they do not know anything about the job.”

Speaking further on the matter, Emmanuel said, “Two years ago, we had a rally against these things and we were attacked by some modelling agencies. They told us to mind our business. Sometimes a modelling agency would tell a girl that before they are given a job, they would have to sleep with a rich man.

“These big men have children at home and they would never allow their daughters to go into modelling because of what they do. Agents are portraying models as prostitutes and that is very bad. These girls also want to belong to the ‘happening crowd’; they want to use the latest phones so they would not mind doing anything to get the money.”

They told Saturday Beats that the trend was what gave rise to their brainchild.

“‘Models on the Island Africa’ is a private beach camp to empower models and also develop models who aim to have a good career in this industry. It is for those that hope to be top-notch brand ambassadors and models. The camp is set aside to develop young talents. The same way companies hold a retreat for their staff, we came up with an idea that models should learn their craft and horn their skills in a conducive environment,” Joseph said.

“It is a camp where we groom talents, develop and empower them. We also bring in celebrities from all walks of life to encourage the models with their success stories. Later, we decided not to make it a camp affair alone but also make it a contest so that the participants can get serious as they may have thought that it was just a fun galore. This is the fifth edition and we have given out four cars and cash prizes so far,” Emmanuel added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]