My song preaches true and genuine love –Guchi
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Fast-rising songstress, Ugochi Onouha, who goes by the stage name, Guchi, in an interview with Saturday Beats has revealed that her mother is the source of inspiration behind her new song, ‘No Be Jazzy’.

She stated that the song would encourage youths to love their partners unconditionally as “our parents did”. “The girls are more interested in money and the guys are more interested in sex. I am preaching that women should have the kind of love that our parents had. The women stood with their husbands in good times and bad times. My mother inspired my new song, ‘No Be Jazzy’ because she stood with my father through the good and the bad times. The song preaches true love,” Guchi said.

The young lady, who sings afro-pop, dance hall and high-life, said she started singing when she was about seven years old but became a professional about seven years ago. “I have been doing music professionally since 2012. I do not think there is any relationship or similarities between me and Simi. I don’t sound like her, I sound myself, Guchi.

“I have always had a passion for music; as a child, I was a part of the choir. I just have love for music. My father was always playing Michael Jackson’s songs when I was a kid and it had a huge influence on me. My father is the biggest music lover in our family. I am the second of four children and I was born in Kaduna but I grew up in Abuja. When I was seven years old, I started singing and I remember that when we had family functions at my grandfather’s house, I was the only grandchild that had the courage to sing in front of our relatives. I remember that the first song I sang was a Barbie-themed song.

“My parents actually support my music career. I was in Edo State University, about to get into 300 level when I had to relocate to Lagos because of my music. I have continued at the University of Lagos. I am studying theatre and creative arts. It has not been easy combining education with music but since I am studying a course that relates to my passion, it is easier. I am doing a part-time programme there so that I can face my studies and also have time for music,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]