I’ve got passionate kisses, lap dances from female fans— DJ Humility
Popular disc jockey, Benedict Afagwu, aka DJ Humility, speaks with JOY MARCUS about the entertainment industry and his relationship with female fans

You recently said the current generation of disc jockeys can’t match you. Don’t you feel that they will feel slighted or think that you are proud?

By saying that, I meant that there is nothing these new DJs can do that we have not done or cannot do because we started from the scratch and learnt from the best. Most of the people that call themselves DJs today don’t know the fundamentals of being a DJ. They just jump into the trade because of the glamour, nightlife and women. They are carried away by the juicy aspects of the job and not because of the love for music. All they do is download music on their laptops and that’s all. That is why I said if any of these new DJs can stand me, they should come out. I contested a DJ championship in the 90s but there is nothing like that anymore. Then, being a DJ required a lot of work and there was nothing like downloading mixed sounds from the Internet.

For someone that has been in the industry for about 25 years, what can you say about DJs then and now?

Back when we started, DJs were in it for the love of the job. And this love made us attend DJ schools. I travelled to the United States of America to attend a DJ academy which I am not sure that any of this present crop of DJs have done. We had to save up money to go and study the craft because of the love for the job. We did a lot of work which has paid off. When you call these new DJs to play at a show, you will find that they won’t be able to carry everyone in the crowd along with music. They would just play songs that are popular on the streets back-to-back. Meanwhile, the older generation of DJs will make everybody in the crowd dance because they know how to mix the songs. Also, these new DJs usually play only Nigerian music and if you take them out of the country and ask them to play, they would fumble. Some of them do not even know the basic terminologies used by DJs or how to calculate music.

You recently left Rhythm FM where you had worked for almost 17 years. Why did you make that decision?

I had to leave because I needed to move on with my career. I needed to do other things, and I felt it was time to do that. Silverbird supported my career to an extent because it widened my horizon and reach. However, I have always been known in the industry. I left because I needed to do other things for myself.

Did you have any misunderstanding?

No, there was nothing like that. I wasn’t just comfortable with the system anymore. I left to do my own thing and develop my record label.

READ ALSO: I’m too young to have a boyfriend – Iyabo Ojo’s daughter, Priscilla

Many DJs also sing. Do you have any interest in music?

Yes, music has always been my life and I started out as a rapper. Now, as a record label owner, I do music and as a DJ, I still do music. I might not sing all through the song but if you listen to my tracks, you will hear my lines.

What do you feel about the industry compared to when you started?

The music industry is doing very well and our music is one of the biggest exports in the country after oil. Nigerian music is everywhere and some of us have had the opportunity of travelling around the world all because of music. Our music is global. There are foreign DJs who play Nigerian songs even more than Nigerian DJs.

Do you agree with some of the lyrics that talk about sex, drugs and objectification of women?

Our music is great but I am not comfortable with some of the lyrics, especially because some of our children listen to these songs and may start singing it in school or places they are not supposed to. You can talk about the female body but it shouldn’t be too explicit. If we want to do music, it should be done well. However, there are some musicians that make meaningful songs such as 2baba, Simi, Sound Sultan and a few others. In fact, all our female musicians do good music, compared to the males. The reason most musicians don’t stand the test of time is because of the kind of music they do. They make music for the moment and after that, it fades off. Sound Sultan hasn’t had a hit in a while but anytime you listen to his songs, you would appreciate him.

What’s your take on nudity in Nigerian music videos?

I think it is the trend. Firstly, it is a borrowed culture and what is in vogue. If you don’t do it, you might be counted out. So, we have to follow the trend; if not, we will be seen as novices.

Are you saying you don’t have an issue with videos that promote nudity?

Yes. I am more concerned about the lyrics.

Your job as a DJ makes you meet lots of women. How do you manage their advances?

I love my female fans and whatever they do is just for the fun of it. Once they appreciate you, then you should appreciate them as well. I always feel good when I see people go wild for me. It makes me appreciate them more. Any man that does not appreciate ladies must be a homosexual.

How wild have your female fans gone for you?

I have been in this business for 25 years and they have done all sorts that I can’t even remember. I have been given a lot of passionate kisses and lap dances.

Did you respond to the kisses?

Yes, I did for a while because I couldn’t push the lady away or hit her. I usually just smile and say ‘thank you’. Ladies are an entertainer’s biggest fan because they are the ones that would sell you more.

What are your guilty pleasures?

I eat a lot and I love food. I am a social drinker but I don’t smoke.

What is it about you that your fans will be surprised to know?

I am a natural person. I don’t pretend to be what I am not unlike most entertainers. I am everywhere and I go everywhere. I build relationships because it is those relationships that would build you and be there for you. That is why you need to be close to people, irrespective of your status. I can decide to just walk around and there would be no harassment from anyone. I love to be humble because that is the best thing in life.

Many DJs lament that some artistes just use them. What is your opinion on this?

If you don’t respect yourself, artistes will take you for a ride. DJs that respect themselves are never insulted or used by any artist. If you look good and respect yourself, people will respect you. I remember a scenario where one of DJ Jimmy Jatt’s boys was slapped by Terry G. Maybe, Terry G looked at him and felt that he could treat him anyhow, but whatever his reason, it was such a bad thing. I was not happy about that at all. Any artiste that tries to raise his hands on me or my boys will surely regret it.

Does that mean you are aggressive?

I am not an aggressive person but if you take me for a ride, I will show you who I am. I like to respect people and I expect the same.

Rumour has it that you are not on good terms with Terry G. Is that true?

I am on good terms with everyone. I don’t have issues with anyone. I don’t have enemies, neither do I have friends. Me and Terry G’s issue happened many years ago and I had to let it go because he apologised. I don’t have problems with any artiste. We are like big brothers to them. There is no DJ without the artiste and there is no artiste without the DJ. We all need each other to grow.

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Immigration gave me special treatment after my hair-colour protest –OAP

Are you a romantic person?

I think you need to ask my wife or my female friends. They will be in the best position to say if I am or not.

How did you meet your wife and what is your love story?

I met my wife in my area at Surulere, Lagos, and when I saw her, I liked her immediately. But I don’t want to talk about that.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]