My song to inspire those who are broke, not bad conduct – Chinko Ekun
Tofarati Ige; [email protected]; 08068792241 (SMS)

For the past week, there has been a huge debate on blogosphere about Internet scam, popularly called yahoo yahoo. The current debate was sparked when budding artiste, Naira Marley, stated that the act was a form of payback against slave masters. Many condemned his words, and some even took it a step further by pointing fingers at other artistes who are seen as been supportive of Internet scammers. One of the artistes listed in this category is Chinko Ekun because of his song, Able God.

However, when Sunday Scoop reached out to the rapper, he said he wasn’t bothered about people’s comments on the matter. He said, “I really don’t have anything to say about that issue. It is really something that doesn’t concern me and I wouldn’t want to get involved in that.

“Everybody is entitled to their opinions. I know why I recorded the song, Able God. It is a song meant to inspire people who are broke, and whenever they hear the song, they are always happy. It is just a normal song that came to me naturally. People can always interpret it their own ways and I don’t have any power over that. I don’t sing to support bad behaviour, and I am not concerned about what anybody says.”

Speaking on his NYSC experience, Chinko Ekun said, “I’m still a corper, and it has been a wonderful experience. It feels good and people really love me. Anytime I go for my clearance or any official activity, a lot of people want to take pictures with me. I feel great about it and I try to help out in any way I can. However, I don’t let my celebrity status get to my head and I behave like every other corper.”

On whether he gets preferential treatment from officials of the scheme, he said, “I don’t get any special treatment from our supervisors and other NYSC officials. They treat me just like everybody else and that’s fine by me.”

READ ALSO: I assisted my wife to take deliveries of two of our kids – Ex-VC, Crawford varsity

The rapper also maintained that the national service had not hampered his music career. “I have been doing my thing and the service has not affected my career in any way. I still do whatever I need to do at the right time. I am ‘cooking’ so many things at the moment and you would be hearing from me soon,” he stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]