To be a legend, one must work very hard– Samson Famobio (Big Sam)
Gospel singer, Samson Famobio, aka Big Sam, speaks with TOLULOPE KAREEM on his plans for his career and other issues

Tell us about your background.

I was born in Lagos. My parents have five children and I am the fourth. For my elementary education, I attended Ifelodun Nursery and Primary School, Agege, Lagos. For my secondary education I went to two schools– Oniwaya High School, Agege, and Jubril Martins High School, also in Agege.

I was at Peter King College of Music, in Ogun State, where I studied music for two years. After that, I proceeded to the Ibadan Polytechnic (Oyo State) where I studied Music Technology.

How would you describe your experience in the industry?

It goes without saying that there are a lot of talented people in the music industry. From my sojourn in the industry so far, I have come to realise that to become a legend, one has to work really hard. I have had so many ups and downs, and I cannot begin to recount them all. The music industry has taught me a lot of lessons which I cannot forget. To move ahead in life, one has to gather the right experience.

What were the challenges you faced at the early stage of your career?

Indeed, I faced a lot of challenges in the course of trying to build myself and my career. Before one can get to the place one really wants to be, one would have to cross a lot of hurdles.

What challenges do you currently face in your career?

As Nigerians, we face challenges every day. I can’t really mention the challenges I am currently facing because such things will always come and one must face and overcome them if one wants to move forward. Challenges, to me, are tools that one can use to move forward in life before one gets to one’s destination.

What plans do you have for your career?

As a gospel musician, I have big plans and it is only God that can make them come to pass by sheer dint of hard work. I plan to hold a concert that would attract people from other countries who would come to praise God, and healing would take place.

How many albums do you have to your name?

My first album was titled, Oba Abake, and it was launched in 2007. I released my second album this year and it is titled, Thanksgiving.

When did you have a breakthrough in your career?

Ever since my debut album was released, people have been inviting me for events such as weddings, burials, coronations, and church concerts.

What are the most important lessons you’ve learnt over the years?

One of the most important lessons I’ve learnt so far is that where there is no pain, there would be no gain. For one to attain a higher level, one must work for it.

How would you describe yourself?

I describe myself as an African man with a unique tone. Whenever I play my saxophone, the tone is usually distinct.

Do you think the industry is favourable to young talents?

No, I do not think so; except one receives favour from God. There is no room for laziness in the industry. However, if one works hard and prays without ceasing, favour would definitely locate one.

What is it about you that people would be surprised to know?

Anytime I play my saxophone, people are usually surprised because of the unique way I handle it.

Which artistes would you like to work with?

Here in Nigeria, I can work with anyone– so far the person is a professional and a gospel artiste. Outside the country, I would love to work with Kirk Whalum, a gospel musician who is also my mentor.

How would you describe yourself?

I am a typical African man. I am easy going, gentle and I don’t like cheating.

What do you think an entertainer must do in order to remain relevant?

An entertainer must be familiar with what is in vogue in the industry, and also be able to update himself in order to meet the demands of people. He must also be versatile in all areas.

How do you like to dress?

I mostly like to dress in the African way. But sometimes, I put on English attires.

How do you relax?

After my weekend gigs, I usually don’t go out on Mondays. I spend that time sleeping or watching movies.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]