Encomiums as Toyin Abraham turns herbal medicine vendor
Mobola Sadiq

Friends and colleagues of celebrated actress and filmmaker, Toyin Abraham, have commended her decision to become a herbal medicine vendor.

Celebrities such as Annie Idibia, Mercy Aigbe, Adunni Ade, Dayo Amusa, Chioma Akpotha, Faithia Balogun-Williams and Venita Akpofure took to their respective Instagram pages to praise the controversial nursing mother.

They described her action as commendable and worthy of emulation. @annieidibia1 wrote, ‘‘I just want to use this medium to congratulate My Gurl @toyin_abraham on the launch of her new project, a solution for women with infertility issues. As a woman I understand how personal this is and I could not be prouder (sic)’’

Aigbe, on her part wrote, ‘‘This is a big congratulatory message going out to my very good friend @toyin_abraham on the launch of her project. This is a big win for women all around and I am so glad to be a part of the story. It’s time we stop spending fortunes on fertility drugs and treatments…(sic)”

‘‘This is a congratulatory message going out to my colleague @toyinabraham on the launch of her project. It’s such a big win for women all around and I am so glad to be a part of the story (sic),” Adunni Ade also wrote on her IG.

The launch of Toyin’s herbal medicine is coming weeks after actress Liz Anjorin revealed that the former was delivered of a baby in a traditional home as against the general belief that she was delivered of the baby in a hospital.

Anjorin, in a heated altercation with Abraham, had claimed that the latter leaked damaging reports about her to blogs.

READ ALSO: I pray about my body – Omotola

However, in a viral video, the actress said she returned to Nigeria to give birth to her child because she wanted to be close to her family.

Toyin said her journey to conception was what opened her eyes to what she described as the wonders of traditional African remedies (herbs).

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]