Immigration gave me special treatment after my hair-colour protest –OAP
Olushola Ricketts

[email protected]

08169745730 (SMS only)

An on-air personality, Dotun, was recently forced to change his hair colour from blonde to black by the Nigerian Immigration Service in Lagos before his passport could be renewed and he didn’t take it well.

Dotun told Sunday Scoop that when he got to the passport office the next day, they were quick to identify him. He said, “I was angry when they told me I had to change the colour of my hair to take a passport and I went to Instagram to share my displeasure. I was told it was a new law as a security measure. I didn’t have a choice but to change my hair to black. When I went there the next day, they told me that they saw my post on social media. They also gave me preferential treatment by speeding up things.

The OAP, who still carries his hair blonde, said it was wrong to decide how people should look or dress. He stated, “I understand that the Nigerian Police largely victimise people based on their looks. That is wrong and it is because we don’t have a good database in Nigeria. With a database, you don’t need to do too much to confirm the true identity of an individual.”

Known as the ‘Energy god’, he believed he didn’t need to take alcohol or drugs to do his job as a hype man. Dotun said, “This is also similar to looks. We stereotype people based on our perception. I am very natural. Right from childhood, I have always been hyperactive. I then discovered I could channel my energy into entertainment. I only take water and I can last on stage for hours.”

He stated that he would at some point leave his job as a hype man for younger people, saying at the moment, he was enjoying himself.

Speaking on criticism that he fakes his accent on radio, Dotun said, “We all have different styles of doing things. I am still relevant and I am still good at what I do. The truth is everyone can’t like my style.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]