My faith discourages me from taking certain roles — Bella Okojie
Kore Ogidan

Background

I was born in 1990 in Lagos, where I’ve lived all my life. I have three siblings – two brothers and one sister. We are a closely-knit family.

My childhood was a lot of fun, although I was exposed to the public and the media at an early age. This is because my sister, Benita Okojie, was a musician before she clocked 10. My dad was an artiste manager. However, we were still shielded by our parents and they understood the importance of letting us experience our childhood. We also did house chores and there was the consciousness that we were role models, though young. I attended many events and interviews with Benita, and that prepared me for what I am doing today.

Education

I attended Starfield Primary School, Iju, Lagos State, and finished my secondary education at Cayley College, Agidingbi, also in Lagos. I graduated from Redeemer’s University, Ede, Osun State, where I bagged a degree in Mass Communication.

Acting

I haven’t arrived at the capacity I want but the gradual growth is working well for me. I have featured in Africa Magic’s HQ Barber, Victor Aghahowa’s web series called Backseat, Ebonylife’s legal series, Castle and Castle. The first time I was on set was a lot of fun and I really loved it. It was a campaign on voter education, done by director, Alex Mouth. Sadly, that didn’t get as much publicity as I had expected but my first professional acting gig was in a web series on Ndani TV titled One Chance, directed by James Omokwe. I was a bit terrified because of the plot but it was fun because I was working with other young people who loved the art. The director was great as well.

Comedy

I am naturally goofy, dramatic and I love a good laugh and I wanted to show more people the funny side of me. I do well with imitating accents and I see many people daily, either personally or by being observant. When my parents saw the videos, it wasn’t new to them because they knew that side of me. It was just nice being on a different platform. I had no worries bringing something new to the table, and doing a different kind of comedy. I however had the worry of not amusing myself because I don’t completely find myself funny. I also had the worry of getting pressured to constantly release content.

Benita

My sister was in the spotlight as a singer and I wanted to be there too but as a ‘talk-person’, not as a singer. I used to dance when I was younger and I featured in her music videos. That was honestly enough for me but I was quite a talker and I wanted to be a broadcaster. I wanted to be in front of the camera, talking about issues and even casting news because of the people I saw on television. I pursued a career along that line as a kid. My dad and I had started some type of talk show but there were other things that were happening with us at the time. My sister was involved in many major projects and it took away my dad’s commitment to a few other things. That wasn’t a problem because it helped me learn from all that she was exposed to.

Challenges

I have a day-job as a broadcaster and it’s sometimes demanding to spend long hours on set, acting and having to resume work in the morning. However, the management of my radio station is very supportive and they give me time to handle my projects. There’s also the situation of going for auditions and not getting called back. It could be quite discouraging. It would be nice to have a more transparent and honest audition process to help people know what is required of them. Finally, we need more mentoring from the already established people in the industry. I don’t know how much of that is happening but it would be nice for them to be actual role models that talk more about the craft.

Fears

I fear that good stories would not be told. As an actor, one doesn’t have much control over the story. There are many things happening in Nigeria that we can talk about. I also have a personal belief and faith that discourage me from taking certain roles. Sometimes, stories can do away with certain inclusions that are put in the movie.

Social Media

I think social media is very useful. It does have the potential to be harmful but that lies greatly on how one uses it or what one seems to do with it. It has helped people find laughter and a way out of sad depressive states. It has also helped people find jobs, education, love and salvation.

Hobbies

I love everything about the arts. It goes from writing, acting, singing, creating content, to just having conversations. I love to listen to music and also watch movies because I’m looking at being very involved in the movie industry. I like reading when I have the time as well.

Fashion

I am not too fashionable. My sister and my mum help me with my wardrobe. I am very relaxed with my fashion sense. I can wear a pair of jeans and a tee shirt for a month. I’m however doing better now and trying to get out of my comfort zone.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]