From Ambode, a parting gift to Lagos arts community
Chux Ohai

President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday commissioned the Lagos Theatre located in Oregun, in Lagos as part of his official visit to the state and inauguration of major landmark projects executed by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode.

The 400-capacity theatre is one of the four conceived and executed by the outgoing governor, in line with his vision to make tourism, hospitality, entertainment and sport the centre of a development agenda for the youth and talented artists in the state.

In his welcome address, Ambode noted that the facility was conceived as a strategy to absorb many Lagosians with the ability to be innovative and imaginative, as well as provide a platform for artistic expression in film making, poetry, dance, drama and music.

Noting that his administration had set the stage for a total theatre experience in four strategic locations across the state, the governor said, ‘’The Lagos Theatre, which is located at Oregun and replicated in other parts of the state, such as Igando, Epe and Badagry in its first phase, is aimed at expanding the arts and performance spaces in Lagos, as well as to promote a thriving creative economy within the communities where these projects are located”.

The brand new Lagos Theatre boasts standard furnishing, a gallery, artiste changing room, rehearsal hall, restaurant space, rest rooms, alternative power generating sets and a well-laid out car park.

The commissioning was attended by some members of the Federal Executive Council, the President’s aides and Governors Ibikunle Amosu of Ogun State, Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, Isiaka Ajimobi of Oyo State, Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State and the Governor-elect of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwoolu and his deputy, Obafemi Hamzat.

Although Ambode stated that one of the major objective of the theatre projects was to bring a refreshingly different cultural experience closer to more neighbourhoods across the state and thereby generate positive excitement among the youth, other people have expressed the opinion that it would have far more positive consequences for the development of tourism and the arts in Lagos State.

A popular filmmaker, Kunle Afolayan, in an interview with our correspondent, described the unveiling of the new theatre as a positive development.

“For me, this is a very good innovation. Beyond the arts and entertainment, I see it as a commercial hub. Some of the problems we have been facing, even as practitioners, is the fact that it is difficult to monetise our contents. In this case, it is a win-win for everybody. At the moment we have quite a few cinemas, but they cannot double as theatres.

“This is the first time that we’re having six theatres that can double as cinemas in Lagos. The only spot that used to provide these kinds of services and ambience was the National Theatre. But since the latter has been grounded, I think the Lagos Theatre will change the mindset of the people,” he said.

Afolayan is but one person among many practitioners and lovers of the arts who think that Ambode, whose tenure will end on May 29, has just opened a new vista in entertainment and tourism development in Lagos, a parting gift that is expected to transport the entire arts community to the next level in the state and beyond.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]