Niniola taught me how to sing­ – Teni D’Entertainer
Tofarati Ige

One of the raves of the moment is singer, Teni D’Entertainer. Her songs can be heard everywhere one turns to and it seems she’s not about to slow down anytime soon.

In a chat with Sunday Scoop, the chubby singer stated that though her music has taken her beyond her wildest imaginations, she has barely scratched the surface of what she has to offer. She said, “To be honest with you, I am amazed by how far I have come in a short while but I can also assure you that you have not seen anything yet. I still have a lot in stock. As a matter of fact, I have barely started. I am usually overjoyed when I see people singing my songs word for word with so much passion. I love to make people happy and I have been able to do that with my music. I have very big dreams as far as my career is concerned and I can only tell you to keep your fingers crossed.”

Contrary to what many may think, Teni said her eldest sister, Niniola, is one of her biggest inspirations. “I have a very wide taste in music; so, I listen to all sorts and that influences me in different ways. However, in the industry here in Nigeria, Niniola and Davido are among my biggest influences. Davido is a wonderful person and I recall the first time I met him was in Los Angeles, US. He advised me to stay focused on my music career and I would succeed. I am happy that has come to pass. As for Nini, she practically taught me how to sing and it is something I will always appreciate. My late father also loved music and he usually played songs a lot in the house. He really loved all his children and he did a lot to build our confidence and self-esteem. Many times, I wish he were here to see what we have made of our lives.”

READ ALSO: Nigerian woman arrested in Hong Kong with cocaine

On whether she is in a romantic relationship at the moment, the singer said, “For now, music is my primary focus. Of course, at some point in the future, I will like to have a family of my own but for now, I am in a relationship with my music.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]