More than an account of stewardship
Researchers and other stakeholders who need figures to work with on the state of infrastructural development in Nigeria now have a new book to fall back on. The Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government has been persistently put on the spot in the areas of energy, roads and housing. And Nigerians have been asking how much the government has done since 2015 in the three key areas. This is the subject matter of the book entitled, Proof of infrastructure delivery across Nigeria: A Three-year report on the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing, edited by Hakeem Bello and Theo Ogeziachi.

The book has just been released by the ministry and it is due for presentation in Abuja on Monday. Bristling with figures and highly expressive photographs, the book combines the special reports with some newspaper articles on areas covered by the ministry. It documents budgets that the ministry led by Mr Babatunde Fashola and the ministers of state -Baba Shehuri, Suleiman Hassan – have had in the past three seasons, while spelling out which projects have got what.

If what a former Head of State, General Abdusalami Abubakar (Retd.), says in the foreword is anything to go by, both Fashola and the editors deserve some accolades.

Abubakar writes, “From the evidence provided in the speeches and photographs collected in the book, the current administration led by Buhari and through the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing has been pursuing the implementation of the policies and programmes with diligence and determination. The book is replete with photographs of newly built houses, roads either being constructed or rehabilitated and power plants being switched on.

“The book presents a concrete evidence of goals as they are being pursued, missions as they are being actualised and achievements as being recorded.”

The reviewer, Babatunde Moshood, notes that the man behind the lens, Lukman Olanipekun, gave the book more than photographic facts. He also imbues it with beauty, strengthened by general quality production that does not exclude professional editing and proofreading.

Moshood says, “The book is pleasing to the eye and a joy to read unlike most documents that emanate from government agencies. It is a mixture of well-written first-hand accounts and if we might add, independent articles, policy papers, speeches and a surfeit of photographs of real places. Since photographs don’t lie as we say, it means an independent assessor can check out every claim made in this 320 page compendium.”

Among the reports so accommodated are Nationwide Inspection, Verification Tour: Fashola in Kogi, Benue, Nasarawa and Plateau States’, by Hakeem Bello; ‘Fashola: A Shuttle in the North Central by Ralph Agbana of ‘The Guardian’; Preaching peace in the South-South Zone’, by Bello;text of an interview by Fashola, titled, My Ministry I now Refocusing on Project Completion, by Bode Gbadebo of Leadership; and BRF: On the Road not Travelled, by Ebitimi Tamuno, published in The Nation’ newspaper. In this regard, Modestus Umennzekwe’s ‘Fashola: Why is no one Talking?’ is also strategic to the theme of the book.

In terms of the recurrent decimal of bridge collapse and scare that often surrounds it, the publication highlights bridges being repaired across the country. They include the Tamburawa Bridge, the Buruku Bridge along the Kaduna-Birnin Gwari Road in Kaduna State, where emergency repairs are being carried out for the protection of exposed piles under the bridge and the Independent and Coconut Bridges in Lagos State.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]