Akinropo to unveil book for mothers on parenting
Olushola Ricketts

A Parenting Development Consultant, Akinola Akinropo, is currently putting finishing touches on his new book entitled, Mummy No Excuses.

Focused on how women can be better mothers, the book will be unveiled on April 27 in Lagos.

The author, in an interview with our correspondent, described the book as a tool for mothers in every household. He stated, “Last year we launched Daddy Where Are You? But many guests were of the opinion that parenting was all-encompassing and insisted we should do a book for mothers as well. The truth is that parenting is broad. As you are solving a problem, another problem will come up. We then began to engage mothers and it set a standard for us.”

The lead researcher of ParenMark School of Parenting insisted that there was no problem if a woman wanted to be on top of her career but she shouldn’t see it as competing with a man.

Akinropo stated that although women occupy top positions in banks and other sectors, yet they still pay attention to their motherly roles. He explained, “This book is specifically designed to guide mothers’ behaviour. As a woman, there are no excuses to be a good mother to your child or children. Even when your husband acts irresponsible, you have still a motherly duty to your children, which cannot be traded for anything.”

Akinropo, who studied Accounting in the university, insisted that he was called by God to do what he was doing. He narrated, “I have been a parenting development expert for 10 years. I didn’t choose the career; it is a calling. I had always been involved in youth development both in the church and outside the church, but I didn’t know it would become this big. I have written many articles on parenting too. I don’t need to wait for people to begin to appreciate what I do before I make a move. But all I can tell you is that there is a total parenting failure in Nigeria and the world, as parents have neglected their responsibilities.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]