Gains of vital sectors in the eye of Lukesh’s camera
Chux Ohai

Seasoned photojournalist, Lukman Olanipekun, popularly called Lukesh, has just unveiled a new book, titled Infrastructural Renewal in Nigeria: A Photographic Journey Through the Power, Works and and Housing Sector.

In the book, Olanipekun, captures major moments in the power, works and housing sectors in the past three years or so. As the official photographer of the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, he witnessed incidents of policy formulation, and execution of projects that he believes deserve to be documented for posterity’s sake.

Published by Lukesh Photography, the 334-page book is presented in three major sections: Power Sector, Works and Housing. Each of the sections presents a flurry of professionally taken photographs of the events in the industry, with some of them spread across two pages for depth reasons.

Although it s inevitable that the principal actuator, Fashola, will prominently feature in the book, Olanipekun does not forget the fact that it is about projects and the people executing them. In this wise, sites, workers and behind-the-scene moments dominate the publication. He, indeed, scores a good point by accommodating human angle moments he captures in the course of clicking across the sectors and in many parts of the country in the past 40 months or so. For instance, food vendors usually found at construction sites are edified by Olanipekun’s Canon and Sony 7R cameras.

One of such inspiring image is one in which Fashola sits beside and chats with a food vendor, Mrs. Folake Emmanuel, during his inspection tours of the national housing project sites in the Akinyele Local Government Area of Oyo State. It is a historic scene that both Emmanuel and her fellow site workers sitting on the other side of the minister really valued, based on the expressions on their faces.

The book is divided into three major sections: ‘Power Sector’ (Pages 37 – 156), ‘Works Sector’ (157 to 262) and ‘Housing Sector’ (263 to 331). The first (power) splashes many photos, most of which were taken from various sites.

It, however, begins with one that will excite many Nigerians: an electricity officer installing a meter. This is one product that many Nigerians are yearning for, especially as they are tired of being cheated via estimated billing. Then we have those featuring various workers – including engineers and artisans at construction sites such as the 330KV/132KV/33kV Turn-in-Turn-out Transmission Substation along Makurdi Road in Lafia, Nasarawa State. There are other ones in Abuja, Kowa, Gombe, Benin, Edo State, Ibuse,, Delta State; Ajaokuta, Kogi State; and Miango, Plateau State.

There are pictures showing Fashola and other officials inspecting sites or inaugurating projects, including the ones in Ikot Ekpene in Akwa Ibom State; Osogbo, Osun State; Orji River, Enugu State; and Kainji Dam, Niger State.

The photos in the ‘Works Sector’ are also built around sites and statistics. And this is one of the strengths of Olanipekun’s book: it accommodates some data that seemed to have influenced the direction of work in the ministry. For instance, it notes about the distribution of roads among the three tiers of government in Nigeria, “Statistically, of about 200,000 kilometres of Nigeria’s road network, state government own 18 per cent, local governments, 66 per cent; Federal Government, 16 per cent. This means the Federal Government is responsible for 36,000 kilometres of roads. However, the FG roads carry an estimated 70 per cent of Nigeria’s road traffic because of their lengths, width and inter-state connectivity.”

Works Sector photos open with the site of the rather notorious Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, with those of Aba-Port Harcourt Road, Kaduna Eastern Byepass, 2nd Niger Bridge, Nnewi-duma-Uburu Road in Ebonyi etc. soon following. A similar spread presented in the ‘Housing Sector’ part of the book.

The publication has been garnering accolades for Olanipekun. For instance, in endorsing the work in the foreword, a former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon commends him for documenting the events he witnessed, saying it is good for the memory of the nation. While also saluting the minister, Gowon writes, “As has become characteristic of him, he has done his level best to achieve good results in the development of infrastructure in various areas, from road to bridges to housing and improved electricity generation and distribution across Nigeria. These results have justified the confidence reposed in him as a member of the Federal Executive by Mr. President, His Excellency Mohammadu Buhari. Yes, there is growing demand for more work to be done.

“Since seeing is believing in this highly skeptical world and Nigeria is no exception, this photo book – attempts to capture the strides of Fashola in a professional manner that aptly reinforces the saying that a picture is better than several thousands of words. Like the minister, the brain behind the book, Olanipekun, is a professional who embodies excellence.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]