Why I sued lady who accused me of being gay –Ik Ogbonna
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

It came as a shock to his fans when Ik Ogbonna decided to sue a social media troll over some allegations she made about him via a video clip she posted on her Instagram page. The lady had posted a video where she made some allegations that the bald-headed Nollywood actor is a homosexual.

The video which has since gone viral has generated many controversial discussions about him. Beyond accusing him of being gay, she specifically added that he was having a series of affairs with his fellow male actors including the up and coming ones.

However, in an interview with Saturday Beats, the model turned actor stressed that he is a representation of Nollywood as a brand, adding that some of the veterans in the industry advised him to take the case seriously in order to avoid being stigmatized.

“I am not just an actor, I represent Nollywood. Trolling people on social media is growing by the day. They have seen it as a cheap means to get followers on social media. I blame the media to some extent because they hardly celebrate the good things about celebrities. I am a father, these days; our kids are on social media so they get to see these things. I got a lot of calls from my senior colleagues, most of them were really bitter about it. If people feel that they can just come on social media to say whatever they want to say, then they should be ready to face the consequences of their actions.

“There are people out there that would believe anything they see or hear on social media hook, line and sinker without researching or trying to meet the person in question. I have nothing against gay people, everybody can live their life however they want to, but it is wrong to impose sexuality on someone. She made a video with such allegations against me. The video had so much bitterness and anger in it as if she was paid to indict me. The first time I heard about the video was when someone called to ask if I had offended anyone. When I saw it, I laughed over it and I didn’t even think about it so much,” he told Saturday Beats.

READ ALSO: I almost ran mad the day my videos went viral –Miss Ezeani

The actor stated that although he did not want to ruin anyone’s life with his action but whatever the outcome may be, the lady brought it upon herself.

He continued, “My senior colleagues in the industry advised me not to let it slide, stressing that if something lingers for a long time, it could become a stigma. There is freedom of speech, but even at that, they should be ready to face the consequence. I do not even know the girl’s name; my lawyers are the ones handling the case. They have written to the US embassy and human rights organization. I really don’t want to hurt anybody or spoil anyone’s career but whatever comes out of it; she brought it upon herself. I am not out for her downfall at all. People should learn that you don’t have to bring anybody down to rise in life. I have built my brand to this stage, I started from scratch. Cyberbullying goes beyond what we see on the internet. It has led people to depression,” he added.

Asked about the speculations about him having some marital crisis with his wife; he stressed that he was still very much in love with her; adding that every relationship had its own issues.

“You are not divorced until you are divorced, as long as an individual has not divorced who they married, they are still married (sic). At the end of the day, no one knows what happens in my house. I cannot come out to tell the press every single thing that happens in my home. I am a social media person. I enjoy posting things online. I use my life to inspire people positively.

“In every relationship, there are always issues. Sometimes the issues can linger for a long time; it could crash the union or make it stronger. I am a human being, for me; I feel any woman married to a celebrity should be given an award. I give kudos to every woman married to a celebrity it is not an easy situation for anyone,” he said.

Speaking about his wife who is also a relationship counselor, he noted that it is always difficult for an individual to advice themselves when they are faced with certain issues.

“A doctor cannot treat himself as well as he would treat a patient; she is an intelligent woman filled with wisdom; sometimes when it comes to your own situation, you really don’t know how to advice yourself. Owing to the fact that she is now schooling abroad with my son; when you fight with someone who is present, you can settle that issue instantly, but when there is distance, it might linger on for some time.

“At the end of the day, we still love each other. I don’t like adding “fuel” to what others say, people are free to have their opinion, and they can think what they want to. I can’t please the whole world, I am not affected by what people say; they are not paying my bills in any way,” he told Saturday Beats.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]