From Jaiyeoba, The Edge is out for Easter delight
Chux Ohai

A new movie, The Edge, is again testing the will of the typical Nigerian to survive in a country like America. The plot revolves around a Nigerian bullied at home by a harsh socio-economic climate, but who is denied the opportunity to live permanently in the United States for want of valid documents.

The character in question is Segun, whose principal helper in America, Bolu, is due to pay an ugly price. After all initial efforts fail, Bolu asks his own wife to temporarily act as Segun’s wife since the couple are already residents with valid papers. The outcome is not only ugly, I is one that sets families on fire – although Segun eventually secures his papers.

This is the tip of the iceberg in The Edge, a new film by Joseph Jaiyeoba. The film, which will be b released on Apata Youtube today (Friday) was directed by Bayo Alawiye and it features actors from Nigeria and the US. Interestingly, Alawiye plays the role of Bolu, who is Segun’s cousing, with Jaiyeoba, a fast-rising actor, model and film-maker, being Segun.

Other actors on parade are stars such as Rachael Oniga, Yemi Solade, Shabazza Ahmed, Ayo Made, Adebusola Adewunmi, Nadia X, Dele Olanipekun, Yewande Ogunsanya, Yomi Samson, Bosun Hassan, Orlando Oguntoyinbo and Tunde Omiyewo.

Others playing different roles are Yomi Samson, Breana Kelly and Hector Flores. Fans of the late Henrietta Kosoko will also have her memory renewed in the course of watching The Edge as she is Segun’s mother, indicating that the movie really fermented before seeing the light of premiere.

Jaiyeoba explains that he feels fulfilled that The Edge shows a remarkable improvement over his earlier movies such as Poinson and Adia.

“Many have, for instance, appreciated our picture quality and other aspects of the technicals. So, a compete and exciting experience awaits film lovers,” he said.

On why he chose to release the film on Youtube, Jaiyeoba says he considered easy access on the part of movie lovers. “It is also good for Easter delight, so that people can enjoy the film even from the comfort of their homes,” he adds.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]