‘Media must be at the forefront of promoting Yoruba culture’
The Chief Executive Officer of Nigbati TV, Mr Saheed Taiwo, in an interview with Dayo Ojerinde, called the media to promote contents that will promote Nigerian culture. Excerpts:

What is the rationale behind the establishment of Nigbati TV?

We discovered that the Yoruba culture and tradition is going into extinction, we discovered that TV stations are now focusing on the new trends. If you watch our movies, the cultural content has been relegated to the background. Nigbati TV was birth to ensure that our cultural festivals, our tradition is brought back to the front burner. And people are appreciating it that is the most important thing.

Do you mean the media has not been promoting indigenous culture the way they should?

When you look at way back, the hairdo of our mothers is different from what we now see daily, now it is all about weavon, and it all has to do with what they see on TV. If the media don’t show these contents to the people they might not be aware these things exist.

Why do you think some parents do not want to expose their children to their culture?

Parents need to let their children know that their tradition is positive, that it is not evil. This way, the children will appreciate it, embrace it as well.

Look at what the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi, is doing, he is projecting the Yoruba culture in a positive way and everybody is appreciating that.

What do you think government can do to promote indigenous culture?

Government and indeed everyone has a role to play in ensuring that our culture doesn’t go into extinction, in making sure that generation yet unborn still meet our core values. The government should support festivals and be at the forefront of promoting our culture because if they don’t do some people might not see the importance. The government can also modernise our festivals and turn it to a source of revenue like it is being done in other countries.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]