US-based music duo, ROZE, storms Nigeria for AY Live show
US-based music duo, born Eghosa Rodney Agbonayinma and Osazuwa Michael Agbonayinma, popularly known as ROZE are currently in Nigeria to make a debut appearance at comedian Ayo Makun’s AY Live comedy show coming.

Born in Texas, USA to politician and music lover, Hon. E.J. Agbonayinma the duo is back in the country for the second time in 15 months not only for the epic show but also to do some music business and entrenched their presence on the Nigerian musical scene. They were formally introduced to the Nigerian press in January of 2018 where they officially released their hit single ‘A Whole Night’ to the Nigerian audience. And riding on the success of the lyrical single, ROZE released their first single of 2019 on February 4, 2019, titled ‘Stranded’

‘ Yeah, we are back in the country to perform at the AY Live show coming up on Sunday, April 21st at the Eko Hotel and Suites. We are really excited about that. We will be performing our new track titled ‘Patience’, produced by Gospelondabeat and we will be working on the video for the track as well.,’ the duo revealed in a chat with our reporter.

ROZE, who have never stuck to any particular genre of music because they believe it would limit their horizon, explain what their new single ‘Patience’ is all about.

‘ Patience is a dance hall fused with melodic rhythm. The single was made in less than six hours after the beat to the track was shown to ROZE by GospelOnDeBeat. Several beats were shown to ROZE by Gospel. But when he got on the beat used in the track ‘Patience’, it caught the attention of ROZE. ROZE recorded their vocals and the rest of the magic was done by the gospel,’ they opined.

Speaking further, they also explained why they are shelving production of the single they released in February ‘Stranded’ for ‘Patience’.

‘The video for Patience is well due and we say that a video for ‘Stranded’ may or may not be done. However, anything is possible. The video for ‘Patience’ will be done in a couple of days in Lagos, Nigeria. The idea of Patience was really random. We did not plan to record the track. However, hearing the beat, we came up with lyrics on the spot for the track. The message in ‘Patience’ is just asking others to take time when it comes to a relationship. Do not rush to do things without thinking it through,’ they

ROZE first appeared in 2014 while working on a test project, titled ‘Time to Party,’ which was never released. However, they later reappeared in 2016, being introduced to producer, Mekoyo, who has produced for artist such as Style Plus. Their discography includes songs like Too Much, All These Things, The Whole Night, Good things, Impressions, Stranded and Patience.