Nigerians react on twitter as ‘Game of Thrones’ returns
‘Game of Thrones’ has continued to trend on Nigerian Twitter since the final season premiered on Sunday, as Nigerians cannot contain their excitement.

News Agency of Nigeria reports that prior to the premiere, discussions around the epic HBO series set social media on ‘fire’, which were fuelled by the nerve-racking and explosive first episode.

Due to the time difference, some Nigerians stayed up till 2 am on Monday morning to watch the show while others have decided to hold their excitement till after the entire season airs.

@Sisteruth said, “I saved episode 1 and decided not to watch till I have a few other episodes. Then two people on their status spoilt every bit for me.”

@TheRetweeter said, “I bet we are all stepping into this new week like a knight because #WinterIsHere #GOT”

READ ALSO: APC deputy spokesman wants North-Central to produce Speaker

@Olayemi tweeted, “The first episode of GameofThronesSeason8 to air in Nigeria by 2 am Monday morning. I hope my boss will forgive me.”

@OsatoEDK tweeted, “Proper start to the season! Worth the sleep deprivation #GameofThrones”

According to HBO, the premiere episode delivered 17.4 million viewers on Sunday evening across multiple airings and including some streaming.

That makes the ‘GoT’ season 8 premiere the biggest telecast in HBO’s history and the most-watched scripted entertainment program of the year.

The prior record holder was CBS’ The Big Bang Theory with 14.1 million viewers on Feb. 7— despite HBO is available in far fewer homes than the broadcast network

The number surpasses the show’s previous overnight record of 16.9 million viewers for the season 7 finale in 2017.

The show also blew up Twitter, racking up 5 million tweets, a record for the show (Sam revealing the truth about Jon Snow’s parents was the most tweeted about moment).

‘Game of Thrones’ is an adaptation of A Song of Ice and Fire, George R. R. Martin’s series of fantasy novels, the first of which is A Game of Thrones.

It has been acclaimed by critics particularly for its acting, complex characters, story, scope, and production values; although its frequent use of nudity and violence (including sexual violence) have been criticized.

The series has received 47 Primetime Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Drama Series in 2015, 2016, and 2018, more than any other primetime scripted television series.

Its other awards and nominations include three Hugo Awards for Best Dramatic Presentation (2012–2014), a 2011 Peabody Award, and five nominations for the Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series – Drama (2012 and 2015–2018).

(NAN)