Becoming a soldier was my biggest dream as a child –Nosa Omoregie
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Gospel artiste, Nosa Omoregie, has said his childhood dream was to become a military man or a footballer.

In a chat with Saturday Beats, Omoregie noted that he never knew he would become a celebrated musician when he started his career.

He said, “I never knew I would be a celebrated musician until when I started playing my songs in church.

“As a child, I wanted to be an engineer, military man or footballer. Now, all I do is to spread the message of God and love.

“I didn’t have a happy childhood, and that’s where music and church really came in. My role models as a kid were the stars like Sunny Okosun, Christy Essien Igbokwe, King Sunny Ade and Onyeka Onwenu.

“I get inspiration for my songs from my mood and situations around me. I attribute everything that has happened to God’s gifts that have made me relentless and creative.”

Omoregie also talked about some of his concerns about the gospel music industry in Nigeria, adding that churches need to support the industry by organising more events for them.

He added, “Though there’s been a huge improvement on gospel music, the industry is not yet a proper one because we still need churches and religious houses to host or organise events before we get proper engagement and participation.

“Most of us are still in denial that this is an industry and things must be done properly. Until gospel artistes or ministers can stand on their own and there is a safe way to generate income, then we might not make as much impact as we should.

“I would advise young musicians, gospel or not, to focus on their craft. That’s what gets you 90 per cent attention.

“Work on your character as much as on the talent. It takes character to stand and maximise opportunity.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]