No issues between me and Tiwa Savage –Victoria Kimani
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Kenyan-born singer, Victoria Kimani, set the Internet into frenzy last week after she dropped her version of Kizz Daniel’s Fvck You challenge.

In her song, she called out Nigerian rapper, Oludemilade Alejo, popularly known as Ycee for stealing her song – an allegation that left tongues wagging.

However, in subsequent lines in her song, she seemed to have insulted a Nigerian female artiste and even though she didn’t mention any name, the adjectives she used to qualify the artiste made most people speculate that she was referring to Tiwa Savage.

In an exclusive interview with Saturday Beats, Kimani noted that she didn’t mention Savage’s name but people only took a cue from the content of her song.

She said, “I don’t have any issue with Tiwa Savage at all. I approached the ‘Fvck you challenge’ with a below the belt move.

“It is common knowledge in the industry that this girl doesn’t like performing in the same show with other female artistes, everybody knows this. I never mentioned any names in my Instagram post, people just attached meaning to whoever they wanted to attach it to.

“Secondly, I never mentioned her name in the record but when I saw that she was sending fake Instagram accounts to attack me, that was when I realised she was offended with what I said.

“It was meant to be a light-hearted challenge, I had to be forced to send my statement, and I don’t have a problem doing that. I don’t have a problem defending my statement about blocking women from certain platforms, this is common knowledge that has happened over the years and people don’t like to admit it.

“At the same time, it is not fair for me to body shame, so I apologised for that, but for the other statements, everybody knows that.”

Kimani also spoke about the reason she has been absent from Nigeria for a while, attributing it to the bad experience she had with Chocolate City, her former record label.

She added, “When I was signed to Chocolate City, I had my team there that was where I was pushing. Ever since I lost the label, my focus shifted and I felt I could only come to Nigeria if I have bookings.

“It wasn’t like I forgot about the country, after having a bad experience in Chocolate City, I just wanted to make sure that if I am doing anything in Nigeria, then it is done correctly. I didn’t just want to be there in everyone’s face.”

She also revealed the reason she called Ycee out for stealing her song, adding that they are still very good friends.

“Ycee and I are still friends; the ‘Fvck you challenge’ for me was more like a rap battle. Sometimes in rap battles, things below the belt are said and then at the end, you can still shake hands and still be friends.

“My perspective was that we can go below the belt in music and there will still be love and respect outside of that.

“Before the song came out, he told me he borrowed a line from my song. My ‘Fvck you challenge’ is not meant to be as serious as some people are making it seem.

“I never planned to take the issue to court or anything and that was why I decided to use the ‘Fvck you challenge’ to tease him, but it is not like in a bad way,” she stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]