I am not happy secular music spreads faster than gospel – Irawo
Tofarati Ige

Singer, Temitayo Emmanuel, aka Irawo, is not happy that secular artistes are more popular than their gospel counterparts and their music spreads faster. Sharing her frustration with Sunday Scoop, she said, “I am not happy about the fact that secular music spreads wider and faster than gospel music. I discussed it with my marketer to know how they have been able to do it, and how we can also achieve that feat. When God gives you a vision, He will make provisions for you, though there will also be challenges but one has to be steadfast. I think we, gospel artistes, need to step up our game and take our ministries more seriously. Secular artistes go out of their ways to push their music and I feel we should do the same thing.”

The gospel artiste also explained why she titled her new album, Olorun Majemu (God of Covenant). She said, “God is my inspiration and his covenant is very strong on me. If not for his presence in my life, I wonder where I would have been by now. All the promises that God has made concerning my life have come to pass. I usually have concerts every year and they are called Olorun Majemu concerts, and they have all been successful. I took a look at my life and I was amazed by all God has done. He will never deny His words and that is what made me give the album that title. He is a covenant keeping God. I just finished shooting the video for the title track. Since I put the trailer on social media, it has generated a lot of responses and I have been overwhelmed by the reception it has got. I can only attribute this to the mercy of God”

Irawo also noted that though her career hasn’t been without setbacks, she had been able to sail through by the grace of God. “I have had a lot of challenges and I don’t even know where to start. Doing gospel music is not easy but it is God that has strengthened me till this point. He has made me to overcome all obstacles. I thank God for His faithfulness,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]