Entertainment, key to Nigeria’s unity –Arcadia Premium boss
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Entertainment and all its elements have been described as having the power to unite all the various ethnic groups in Nigeria.

Giving this view earlier in the week in Lagos while announcing the introduction of Arcadia Premium Television on Startimes, Co-founder of the outfit, Akintunde Marinho, said that with the positive feeling creative contents leave on the mind, entertainment indeed has the capacity to bring Nigerians of diverse backgrounds together.

According to Marinho, in further developing the industry and projecting it in the right light on the international stage, Arcadia will continue to tell Nigerian stories especially those that promotes good morals and peaceful co-existence.

He said, “With the success of telling the African story through our mobile TV platform, Arcadia was propelled to create premium entertainment on cable TV for a wider and diverse audience through contents ranging from music, sports, movies, comedy, fashion and lifestyle, amongst others.

“We intend to tell more Nigerian stories and project our artistes positively on the international stage.

“Entertainment has the power to unite us as Nigerians and that is why as a brand

we are conscious about promoting this aspect.”

Also speaking on the migration to cable TV from a purely Internet platform, Chief Operating Officer of Arcadia Premium, Olamide Yousuph, said that they were collaborating with relevant stakeholders in the entertainment industry to further develop the sector through quality works.

She said, “When it comes to collaborations, we are always open to it and there’s always going to be consistency in the quality of shows we air.

“We know the important role the entertainment industry occupies in our national life as a country and that is why we will continue to promote its development as a Nigerian brand.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]