Posting picture of my new car on the social media wasn’t for show-off –Pencil, comedian
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Stand-up comedian, Ogechi Nwanevu popularly known as Pencil, was recently attacked on the social media for sharing a picture of his new car.

According to some of his fans, they expected him to buy a more sophisticated car but the comedian didn’t waste time before replying those trolling him.

In an interview with Saturday Beats, the comedian noted that was not the first time he would get that sort of comment from people.

“I have received several terrible comments from people but I always live by this phrase: “If nobody talks about you, then you are nobody”.

“Being in the public space, I am used to constructive and destructive criticisms. It is not the first time that this is happening. I see myself as a role model for many and there are lots of people that look up to me. Even when I get provoked, I try to control my emotions so that I don’t disappoint my fans.

“People have their own standards but I cannot allow the tongue of a man to bring me down.

“There is this craze and quest to acquire expensive cars but I don’t move with the trend, I try to create my own identity. I bought a car I could afford. It was my fifth car in fact,” he said.

Reacting to speculations that he wanted to show-off with his new car, he noted that he never had that intention in mind.

“As an entertainer, I sell myself, for people who have a paid employment; their hard work determines if they would be promoted.

“I don’t think anybody has control over how I choose to live my life. Posting a car is not because I want to show-off, it is a way I use in counting my blessings.

“Fame has taken away my privacy, even when I get angry on the road while driving, I can’t react.

“I don’t want to be distracted at this stage of my career, I don’t even have time for a committed relationship at the moment, I am focused on the goals I have set for myself.

“Anyone who thinks she is in a relationship with me is dating me without my knowledge,” he added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]