Actors lead fake lives on social media –Belinda Effah
Tofarati Ige

Actress, Belinda Effah, has said she is not comfortable with the lifestyle that a lot of her colleagues portray on social media. Effah told Sunday Scoop that many of them portrayed an image that was a façade.

She said, “The things I see posted on social media by my colleagues are appalling. It is sad because they are not representing the industry well to the society. I know how much some people make, yet the lifestyle they portray is way above their means. For those people, I’ll like to know how they made it so that others can learn from them. But if you cannot explain your source of income, you shouldn’t mislead others. If you’re portraying a lavish lifestyle on social media, people would naturally believe that you are okay. And when issues such as health crisis occur, they would be reluctant to come to your aid.

“On my social media pages, I always like to keep it real and advise my fans to do so too. That you have doesn’t mean you must flaunt it on social media. Most people that have don’t flaunt it online anyway.”

Effah also disagreed with the popular belief that actresses make more than their male colleagues. “I don’t think that actresses make more than their male colleagues. It has to do more about the class you fall into, how you present yourself, and how well you can negotiate.

“Many actresses that appear to have so much on social media are only putting up a façade. I’m not trying to bring anybody down but I can only speak for myself. I always advise my colleagues to be true models, so that if your kids are looking up to someone like you, you can be okay with it. If you think that what you are showing on social media is right, then you can continue,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]