Nigerian youths need to be more socially conscious – Ice K (Artquake)
Tofarati Ige

One half of the defunct music group, Artquake, Ice K, believes that celebrities and Nigerian youths are not as socially conscious as they should be. Speaking in the wake of the revived #ENDSARS campaign following the killing of a young man, Kolade Johnson, Ice K said popular entertainers should lend their voices to social causes more often.

He said, “Most of us get carried away and have misplaced priorities. The problem with Nigerian youths is that it is only when something affects them or someone close to them that they take those things seriously. That is why people like us, who are supposed to be the elders in the industry, have to reawaken people to certain things. Nigerian youths need to channel their energies wisely.

“I don’t have anything against the F**k You challenge (by Kizz Daniel). The young man is doing well for himself but I am just appalled that a lot of top Nigerian artistes do not lend their voices to issues that are affecting fellow Nigerians. If everybody keep talking about these things, there is no way even the President will not intervene. If top Nigerian artistes come out to say something, people would listen. At least, we were able to push this thing to an extent that the Vice-President gave an order that FSARS should be scrapped but somebody else brought them back. Personally, I don’t even think that FSARS should be scrapped because we need security, but they need to follow their rules of engagement. They have committed a lot of atrocities and nothing was done about it but this latest case is trending because a lot of people are talking about it. FSARS is killing people more than an epidemic. Why should you arrest someone without provocation, simply because the person is wearing dreadlocks or having tattoos?”

However, Ice K, doesn’t believe that artistes should be blamed for shallow lyrics. He stated, “If artistes sing about parties, women and alcohol, there is nothing wrong with that because it is the social part of life. People want things that would make them forget their sorrows, even if just for a little while. Nigerians have been rated to be one of the happiest people on earth. We love having fun and I don’t think that’s a bad thing. However, there should be a balance. While singing about the social aspect of life, there should also be songs that promote consciousness.”

The singer also denied that his song, which advocated the reformation of FSARS, was a publicity stunt. “That song was released some months ago but people didn’t pay attention. It is when something like that happened that I had to spread the word about it. It is not even a full song, but a freestyle.

“It is stupid for anyone to say that I’m seeking attention; I don’t need all that. It is not even a kind of song that one can perform at concerts. I’m just doing it to arouse our consciousness. I spent money to record the song and shoot a video for it,” he added.

Speaking on his current projects, Ice K stated, “I have been working on my new album. You know I broke out from my group, Artquake, and started a solo career. I have released about four singles (including Technology, and Sure Banker) and they are doing well. Right now, I’m working very hard to get my album out and that would be my debut as a solo artiste.”

Ice K also maintained that his breakup from his former partner, Adex, was amicable. He said, “The Yoruba say that 20 children cannot play together for 20 years. As adults, there are certain things that would constitute barriers when it comes to partnerships. We are both married and have private businesses that we maintain apart from music. Breaking up was a way of increasing our life spans as artistes. As a group, there are certain decisions I wouldn’t be able to take on my own. I was in the US recently and I decided to shoot a video while there but if I was still part of a group, I would have had to wait for my partner to be there and that is a form of limitation. However, the only thing that crashed is our business relationship; we are still good friends.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]