S’Africans now understand pidgin English because of Nigerian movies –Chinedu Ikedieze
Actor, Chinedu Ikedieze, aka Aki, shares memories of his exciting trip to South Africa with KORE OGIDAN

How often do you travel?

Whenever I have the time. I always long to travel and I embrace any opportunity I get.

What’s your typical time like on the airplane?

I like it when there is no turbulence, and I don’t think that is particular to me. I enjoy watching movies in-flight. I also read books, listen to music and other times, I sleep.

What was your most recent travel experience?

In March, I travelled to South Africa for a television tour. It was a great experience visiting Cape Town and Johannesburg. It was such an awesome experience that it was second to none.

What was the purpose of the travel?

It was to create awareness for the brand, ROK Television. The trip was tagged #RokMeTour. It was a good opportunity to meet with our customers and fans in South Africa and Zambia. I loved every bit of it and it was fantastic. The fans were able to share with us their experiences watching the movies I and the other actors on the tour featured in.

What was your experience in South Africa?

It wasn’t my first time going there but it’s always fun visiting South Africa. South Africa is like a combination of Africa and the rest of the world. It is a well-developed country where you can enjoy indigenousness and metropolitan vibes in one place and at the same time. There were many awesome things we enjoyed on our trip. We had lovely food and went sightseeing. We visited the Cradle of Humankind in Johannesburg and the Sterkfontein cave which has existed for over 500 years. We also had lunch at the Table Mountain in Cape Town and visited Robben Island. South Africa has a lot of history; there’s always something to learn.

One of the highlights of the trip was the interactions we had with our fans. It was exciting because we got to answer the questions they had for us. We also had a lovely party that is completely unforgettable. We showed them the Nigerian way of having fun.

How long did you spend there and what was your living condition?

We spent about eight days and were lodged in the best 5-star hotels. It was a lot of fun.

Was this trip like anything you imagined it would be?

Honestly, it was different from what I imagined. I didn’t think the packaging would be as royal as it was. It was the kind of treatment every celebrity would love to experience and I am grateful that I was part of it. It beat my imagination.

Tell us about their food?

When you get to South Africa, one of the first things that will attract you is the food because it is a multi-racial place. Asides their local delicacies, there are other cultural dishes – European, Asian and lots more – which you can choose from. I enjoy eating seafood and I got a great load of that while there.

Did you miss Nigeria?

When you are in Nigeria, you may feel like you are missing something but the moment you leave the country and stay away for a while, you’ll start to miss home. You’ll also miss your friends and the hustling life back home. It’s interesting to know that you’ll even miss the gridlocks in Nigeria. So, I missed being away and that happens to me whenever I travel out of the country.

Was there a language barrier?

There wasn’t any whatsoever. The people there even asked us to teach them our style of pidgin English. In fact, they understand pidgin now; that’s thanks to the power of our movies. There was effective communication because they speak English.

How different is South Africa from Nigeria and what can we learn from them?

South Africa is very developed. When there, you would be tempted to ask yourself if you are still in Africa. Sadly, our leaders still invest their money in South Africa instead of investing it here. I also disagree with the statistics that says the crime rate in South Africa is higher than in Nigeria. It only seems that way because there is recorded data for every occurrence (unlike here).

Nigeria can learn to invest wisely in the country. There are many things to use the money for here. We can learn about structures and organisation from them.

What country do you plan on visiting next?

I plan to visit either Dubai or the United States of America.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]