It’ll be strange if my children don’t become singers – Eben
Olushola Ricketts

Emmanuel Benjamin, better known as Eben in the gospel music industry, is grateful to his wife, Jahdiel, for putting her music career on hold to take care of their home.

Speaking with Sunday Scoop, Eben said due to the sacrifices his wife had made in the past, he was, in turn, ready to support all her aspirations. He stated, “I am blessed to have a family that understands what my life and calling is about. Since my wife is in the ministry too, she understands the sacrifices that come with it. She supports me a lot; so, if she needs to do anything, she has my full support. She slowed down on her commitment and engagement as an artiste because of our kids.”

Eben stressed that he never felt it would be wise for his wife to quit music completely to concentrate on their kids. He added, “I will not tell my wife to leave music to be a housewife because at the end of the day, life is about fulfillment and that can only happen when dreams are achieved. If your spouse is not fulfilled, she will not be happy and that can be a problem in your marriage.”

The gospel singer believed it would be strange if none of their children got involved in music. According to him, children become what they see as they grow. He stated, “When children come to the world, they come with nothing. They grow with what parents put in them. If my children don’t later do music, it would mean that I didn’t do my job well. But so far, my two kids are following everything I am doing. Even without us teaching them, they know our songs.”

He also didn’t rule out the possibility of becoming a pastor in the near future. “There have been prophecies about that. I think it is part of the grace God gave me. Most people don’t know that side of me; they just see me as a musician. But there is also Eben, the preacher,” he stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]