Why it took me 19 years to set up a radio station –Kenny Ogungbe
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Media entrepreneur, Kenny Ogungbe, has been associated with radio for more than 30 years of his life but his dream of becoming a radio station owner did not come to fruition until about two years ago.

Giving more insight into his love for radio and broadcasting generally in a chat with Saturday Beats, Baba Keke as the 48-year-old is fondly called, revealed that he chased the dream of owning a radio station for about 19 years before it became a reality.

“I had requested for a radio license over 19 years ago but I did not get it because to run a radio station in Nigeria, it must be approved by the president.

“I am not a politician and I do not have any affiliation with any political party neither do I have any godfather that could have helped me fast-track my request.

“It was Chief Raymond Dokpesi that spoke with former President Goodluck Jonathan and I was able to get the license.

“All this process took me about 19 years but I am glad that today we are celebrating our second year anniversary as a radio station.

“After I got the license, I felt on top of the world because it is one of the things I have been looking forward to achieving in my life,” he said.

Speaking further, Ogungbe told Saturday Beats that in as much as he was happy to have realised his dream, running a business in Nigeria has come with its own challenges.

“The challenges that I have faced over the last two years that I set up Kennis FM, have indeed been enormous.

READ ALSO: Tricycle rider drugs, defiles neighbour’s 13-year-old daughter

“We run on generator for hours every day and this eats deeply into the little profit we should have made.

“It is also difficult to get equipment needed to run the station as a result of the high import duty. But we thank God for pushing us ahead,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]