With kidney ailment, having children not my priority – Leo Mezie
Olushola Ricketts

A lot of people know that after surviving kidney disease a few years ago, actor Leo Mezie is battling for his life again. But only a few know that he has been married for eight years without a kid.

But Mezie told Sunday Scoop that he isn’t disturbed that his marriage has yet to produce a child. He said, “I don’t have a child yet and it is not a thing of pity because children come at the appointed time. Besides, if I had kids, they would be too young to experience this condition with me. I believe there is a reason for everything in life. I have been married for eight years now and my wife is doing her best.”

Recall that in 2017, the founder and general overseer of the Omega Fire Ministry International, Apostle Johnson Suleman, had sponsored Mezie’s medical trip to London, though the actor was later advised not to go for a transplant.

But Mezie confirmed that he was presently in a critical situation. The handsome actor stated, “As I speak to you, I am in the hospital for dialysis. The ailment resurfaced when I went to the United Kingdom for checks last year. When it relapsed 11 months ago, I thought I could handle it.”

He noted that he had to speak out again when he became financially exhausted. He said, “In December, I collapsed many times. It was later discovered that I had lost every function of my kidney. I now undergo dialysis three times a week, and one session is about N45, 000.”

Reacting to reports that the industry had been divided over the need to raise funds for his health, he said there was no quarrel. Mezie stated, “I am presently relying on the Actors Guild of Nigeria. They plan to launch a foundation soon but the urgency of my case made the foundation to start working before its official unveiling. I only have a problem with my former fundraiser, Chioma Okoye of Purple Ribbon Care Foundation. I don’t even intend to talk about it because my family and AGN have asked me to focus on my health.”

According to him, the misunderstanding began when AGN told Okoye to pay whatever money was raised directly to his account so that he would have access to the funds. He said, “But she refused to pay the monies into my personal account. Since I dissociated myself from her and funds are being transferred to my personal account, I have been able to attend to my medical needs faster. However, AGN first intervened by giving me some money to buy drugs.”

Mezie also informed Sunday Scoop that he was presently on admission in a private hospital in Ilupeju, Lagos. He stated, “When nurses at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital embarked on a strike last year, I was helpless and had to move to a private hospital. I am receiving good treatment here too but my pocket is suffering. From the last calculation we made, I need a minimum of N20m to be strong again because the issue does not end with the transplant. After the transplant, I am expected to be on life support for the rest of my life.

“I have been fighting this for the past three years and I have been conquering. I have strong faith in myself and in God.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]