Backlash from Nigerians, the least of my problems –Etinosa
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Actor and comedienne, Etinosa Idemudia, recently got a lot of negative reviews from Nigerians after it was alleged that she went naked on Mc Galaxy’s Instagram live video.

After several criticisms from her fans and followers, she made a statement on her Instagram page to thank everyone that reached out to her during that period. It read, “Thanks to all who reached out (sic). I’m ok. Sometimes dealing with issues can be tough. You feel the weight on you all by yourself and you want to explode. You want to give up. While some handle it with prayers, others handle it in other ways which may or may not be accepted by society. I made a mistake I do not ever wish to repeat. No man is perfect but we must continue to strive for perfection. The big blunder has occurred and I would love to move on. Me, my pot belly and the rest of my beautiful body (sic).”

However, in an interview with Saturday Beats, she noted that the backlash she got after the incident was the least of her problems.

“I am not depressed, I will never be depressed. In life we have challenges once in a while, everybody has challenges. What makes a strong woman is how you face and solve your challenges by turning them into testimonies. Depression is a strong word; it is not something you associate with someone who is under pressure or just going through a temporary phase. We shouldn’t always jump to such conclusions.

“I have been very busy working on a couple of projects; backlash is the least of my problems right now. Social media slacktivists (sic) are the least of my worries right now. My life, work, and family are most important to me; and I am investing so much time in these things,” she said.

She also talked about her journey into the entertainment industry, describing it as a graceful experience.

“My journey into the industry has been graceful, considering how far I have come within a short time since I started acting in 2016. It is not something I can explain. I had no strategy or plan to follow to attain success in the industry. Established acts were good to me; I met a couple of them while I was at the Royal Arts Academy and while on set. They were nice to me; some of them knew me because of my comedy skits. Most of them encouraged me and gave me some tips; they never made me feel uncomfortable. They are great people,” she told Saturday Beats.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]