My dance, workout videos not to seduce women –Harrysong
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Harrison Tare Okiri, popularly known as Harrysong, is known for his melodious songs and vibrant dance moves in his music videos. He is fond of sharing short videos of himself dancing and working out on his social media page. Some of his fans have alleged that he uses these videos to seduce his female followers. In a recent interview with Saturday Beats, the Reggae Blues singer noted that dancing and being happy is part of his lifestyle. He said he never had the intention to seduce any of his female fans.

“Why would I want to seduce women? If they are seduced by that, it’s their business, I am just exercising and living my life. I am just a happy guy,” he told Saturday Beats.

The songwriter and instrumentalist shocked some of his fans when he released his latest song. The video portrayed him as a loving husband and father. Asked if it was a hint that he would soon get married, he noted that it was a conscious move to spice things up for his fans.

“My new song is a conscious move to rebrand myself; we are just trying to spice things up for the fans. It is not about whether I want to take the next big step as regards marriage; I will let the world know (when it is time). It is just a concept to talk about life, family, belief, hustle, and faith. Those are the kinds of songs I started with before I produced songs like Reggae Blues that put me in the limelight. I have always been versatile,” he said.

Last year, Harrysong came out to talk about his battle with depression. Asked how he was able to overcome the thought, he said he didn’t want to talk about it. He further explained the reason why he always shared pictures of himself dressed for church service.

READ ALSO: I almost quit music out of frustration –Kcee

“I don’t want to talk about depression anymore, It is in the past now. I try to create new things now and stay relevant. It is a great challenge but it is also inspiring.

“I know I am a public figure with a large following, it is my life, and I am a Christian and a musician. So when I share pictures of me going to church, it is just meant to inspire my fans,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]