Lasisi unveils new poetry video, performance troupe
Chux Ohai

Acclaimed performance poet, Akeem Lasisi, recently released a new poetry video, titled, Mo n Bo.

Shot at the National Theatre, Lagos, the video is a romance produced in the tradition of the poet’s popular work, Eleleture.

Directed by Sanjo and subtitled, Give me an ample stage, features the dreadlocked folk singer, who is also Lasisi’s long-standing ‘partner-in the beat’, Edaoto, and members of the Songbirds, the performance troupe that the poet recently reassembled.

Emerging actress, Ada Ugbor, also stars in the video.

Lasisi, in a statement made available to our correspondent, said that he decided to release the video on World Poetry Day to spice up the global event with something different and inspiring.

He said, “I felt that it was necessary to bring something with the full complement of music, dance, drama and all to spice up the World Poetry Day celebration. I always want people to enjoy poetry as much as they do films, music and drama. The same spirit is behind Mo n Bo, which is a track in my third album, UDEME: Constituency Project.

“It has also been a difficult time for Nigeria, not only on the political scene where the king is usually dancing naked, but also in terms of the tragedy that has been consuming parts of our humanity. Instructively, Pius Adesanmi’s death has pierced into the hearts of many of us like a hell-hot needle. The rate at which we have had to keep mourning him is unprecedented. As a matter of fact, I initially contemplated postponing the unveiling of Mo n Bo, all the while asking myself if there was cause to laugh in the midst of tears.

“In Lagos, we lost 20 people, including pupils, to the building collapse that occurred at Ita-Faji. While another house has also collapsed in Ibadan, recording injuries, insurgents and other strange elements have also stepped up killings in some parts of the country. So, one could not but question the desire to celebrate love in the river of hatred that we seem to have found ourselves. But it is also not too difficult to convince oneself that we must stand on our feet. We should not concede defeat. We must prove that we are capable of surviving the tragic events and rising above our fears.”

Apart from publishing award-winning collections of poems that include IREMOJE: Ritual poetry for Ken Saro-Wiwa and Night of my flight, Lasisi has produced six albums of musical poetry and several singles. He has also produced about 30 videos.

According to him, the performance group – Akeem Lasisi and the Songbirds – boasts fine singers and dancers who complement and inspire him to offer the audience a total poetic experience.

In the group are Tairu Ajibode, Bidemi Akiremi, Yewande Odumosu, Foluke Olorunlana, .Popoola Osisanya, and Samuel Oladipupo Essodee.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]