Medical doctor resigns to participate in Next Titan
Chux Ohai

Olatunde Qadri, one of the 16 contestants in the biggest entrepreneurial reality TV show in West Africa, The Next Titan season 6, quit his medical job of five years to be on the show.

The Communications Manager for the project, Motunrayo Idris, in a statement said that Qadri made his decision known during a profile interview on the first episode of the show, quoting him as saying he would settle for The Next Titan given the opportunity.

“I left my job because I saw Next Titan as a big platform to help boost my dream of becoming a fashion designer and a doctor. I see it as an avenue to showcase my idea to millions of people.He added.

In addition, Olatunji said that although he could always get another job as a medical doctor in any good hospital, he might not get another chance to be on The Next Titan and that was why he took the big decision to quit. “I have a strong conviction about it and I have no regret whatsoever. As a matter of fact, a send forth was done for me before I left the office,” he said.

The Next Titan is a reality TV show that is aimed at empowering young Nigerians, by providing quality leadership, management and finance skills, amongst others, to bring great ideas and Innovation to life, and this year’s show is theme: Impossible is possible.

This year’s show houses professionals from different works of life, such as lawyers, Information technology managers, Journalist to mention a few.

The show, which encourages entrepreneurs, does not limit its scope to just business. It gives room for anyone with a brilliant idea to be innovative and bring their ideas to life.

The show, which has been on for six years, has experienced immense growth and keeps expanding in terms of interest and engagement of Nigerian youths.

The reality show which is scheduled to air for 10 weeks will see one person emerge the winner with the winning a cash prize of N 7 million and a brand-new Ford car.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]