I had a crush on a chef in Paris – Uriel
Big Brother Naija star, Uriel Oputa, speaks to JOY MARCUS about her unforgettable trip to Paris

How frequently do you travel?

I don’t really have any timeframe for when I go on trips, but I try to travel every year. However, my trip to Paris was very dear to my heart.

When did you travel to Paris?

I travelled to Paris last year from London; it was a 45 minute-trip by train. Prior to that time, I had never been there before; so, I decided to try a different vibe.

What excited you about the place?

When we arrived at Paris, I thought a little about the communication barrier because it is a French-speaking nation. But I really loved the food which was one of the highlights for me. Immediately we got there, we went to get some food. I can’t pronounce the name of the food but it was absolutely amazing.

How long did you spend there?

We were in Paris for about four days.

What are the names of some of the places you visited?

I saw the Eiffel Tower and I visited some clubs. I understood better why they say Paris is a city of love. The city is practically built on romance and it’s easy to find yourself falling in love because there is so much to look at and there are beautiful restaurants there. Also, the weather was lovely and the language is sexy. I actually made friends with one of the chefs whose name is John at the restaurant where I ate. I remember talking to him and I was dazed by his accent because it was beautiful. Everything about Paris is love from the food, to the beaches and people.

Did you experience love personally?

No, I didn’t but I had a crush on the chef, John. He is of mixed heritage. He is half Ivorian and half French. I remember he was tall, had thick curly hair and could cook.

Are Parisians accommodating?

I would say yes and no. Sometimes, when you don’t speak their language, they could be a little funny. However, I can’t say I had any negative experience there. Though sometimes when you greet some people and they realise that you don’t speak French, they would just walk away. Maybe it is because they don’t want to waste their time explaining. But I learnt how to say “excuse me” in French; when I say that, they know that I can’t speak French, then they help me.

Did you experience any culture shock?

No, I did not. I grew up in the UK and Paris is also in Europe. They just speak a different language. The only thing that was awkward was my French. I had to rely on the French I learnt when I was seven years old. But aside from the little language barrier, it was a positive trip. I would love to spend a weekend in Paris with my partner.

Paris has lots of shops and exotic malls. Did you buy anything while there?

I bought a key ring that was a miniature of the Eiffel Tower for my brother. Also, I got some ‘I love Paris’ magnets that I could stick on my fridge. It is so funny because I still have them till now. I just wanted to enjoy Paris because I can always go shopping anytime and anywhere.

How would you advise someone who wants to go to Paris?

If you want to travel to Paris, have a French dictionary that will explain things to you when you are confused. Also, Google is your best friend and don’t be afraid to try new foods and things. Lastly, make sure you visit the Eiffel Tower.

What other places would you like to visit?

I would love to go to Jamaica because of the food. A lot of the friends I grew up with are Jamaicans, Ghanaians and English. I just love the way Jamaican food is prepared. They have an amazing snack called patty that is similar to the Nigerian meat pie. Also, their beaches are so clean and the people are warm. I would also love to visit Seychelles because it is an amazing place too. It is somewhere one can go to relax because the tourist attractions over there are top notch.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]