Social Entrepreneur, Misan Rewane, on Glo-powered African Voices
Olushola Ricketts

Notable Nigerian change agent, Mr. Misan Rewane, is one of the three trendsetters interviewed and showcased on the current edition of African Voices on the Cable News Network.

African Voices is a 30-minute documentary programme that celebrates African innovators who are carving niches for themselves in emerging and traditional professions. The show is sponsored by telecoms firm, Globacom.

The other Africans on the show are Rebeca Gyumi, a girls’ rights advocate from Tanzania, and Solomon King Benge, the founder of Fundi Bots from Kampala. The three are change agents who are making waves in their communities through education and innovation.

Misan Rewane, a social entrepreneur, is passionate about equipping young adults with the necessary career skills, thereby giving them what they need to be integrated into the job market and subsequently carve out successful careers for themselves .

Rewane is Harvard –trained and is the Chief Executive Officer of the West Africa Vocational Education. His dream is to reduce youth unemployment in Nigeria to almost zero.

Another star on the show, Gyumi is a lawyer by profession and the founder and Executive Director at Msichana Initiative, a Tanzanian NGO which aims to empower the girl-child through education. She has equally worked for over eight years with Femina, a youth-focused organisation, as a TV personality. Her passion is to remove key impediments to the right of the girl-child to quality education.

Gyumi won a United Nations Human Rights Prize for a case on child marriages, consequent upon a petition she filed at the High Court of Tanzania. She had challenged the Tanzania Marriage Act 1971, which legalises marriage by adolescent girls from the age of 14. Her victory on the case led to the decision to raise the minimum age of marriage to 18 for both Tanzanian boys and girls.

In Uganda, Fundi Bots, founded by Benge, “employs robotics training within and outside African schools to create and inspire a new generation of students and innovators who are better prepared for careers in the technology sector and who can become change-makers in their communities.”

An engineer by training, Benge deploys science through robots to drive home the possibility of new innovations in Uganda.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]