I don’t know if TOS Benson’s son is buried or not –Tony Benson
Olushola Ricketts; [email protected]; 08169745730 (SMS only)

The real reason behind the death of the founder of the defunct Faze 2 Night Club, Yaba, Lagos, Prince Soji Benson, is still unclear.

Soji, who was the eldest son of First Republic minister, Otunba TOS Benson, died on February 12, during an alleged visit to his son, Oye, at his home in Apapa, Lagos. It was later said the deceased had marks of violence on his body.

A family source told Sunday Scoop that an argument broke out between Soji’s wife, Gloria, and her stepsons – Oye and Lanre. The two sons allegedly went to a Lagos mortuary, where they initially deposited their father’s body, to take it for a funeral without carrying the family along.

The source said it took the intervention of the deceased’s siblings before his body was retrieved from his sons and embargoed in the mortuary.

Another source also revealed that the family got to know about Soji’s death when someone contacted the deceased’s cousin, Tony Benson. The person told him that his body was found by the roadside in Apapa, Lagos.

When Sunday Scoop contacted Tony, he said he had not been briefed about the incident. He stated, “To be honest with you, I am not aware of any development. At a time, I heard he (Soji) had been buried and I also heard that he had not been buried. I don’t know which to follow. When they (his children and wife) are ready, they will tell me what is going on.”

READ ALSO: Why I rejected 2018 Range Rover birthday gift –Alex Unusual

Explaining his relationship with the late Soji, he said they used to live in the same compound in their Ikorodu residence in Lagos. Tony added, “I am Soji’s senior cousin; he is my first cousin. He is the eldest son of TOS Benson, while I am Bobby Benson’s son. TOS and Bobby were brothers. That is all. He lived in the estate with me but sometimes he would go for days and came back later. I didn’t see anything odd about his absence.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]