How Tope Alabi inspired my new movie – Biodun Stephen
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

For the creative minds, inspiration comes from anywhere and for filmmaker, Biodun Stephen, the inspiration for her recent faith-based film, Joba, came to her when she was listening to a song that featured ace gospel singer, Tope Alabi.

“I’m very excited and happy about the movie because it’s a very special movie for me. I will say the project is divine. I listened to a song featuring Tope Alabi and I must have listened to the song over 52 times while driving and when I got home, I knew I had to write something about it. I wrote it and without editing or reading, I finished and went to bed. When I woke up the next morning to read the story, I was amazed that I had written so much that I didn’t believe I could have written it.

“So, after writing the story, I just shared it with my social media fans and that was it. I had moved on only for me to get a DM (direct message) from a Nigerian, who is also a gospel singer. He reached out to me and requested for the cost and logistics to be part of making the project a reality,” she said.

But her journey to stardom wasn’t without a glitch. Her goal was to be an actor but auditions were not forthcoming for her. Whilst chasing her dreams, she moved from radio presenting to copywriting in an advertising agency, then back to radio before she resigned at her job as an On-Air Presenter to study filmmaking and scriptwriting at the London Film Academy.

“On my part, I was confused for so long. One of the crises I suffered from was an ability to do so many things. I can write, act, direct, present and so on. In finding my space, I talked to myself and also prayed. I realised I had gone for several auditions and (they were) not clicking for me; also, I was on radio for a long time. However, radio helped me to find my purpose as a filmmaker because I did a talk show on radio which was about sharing life issues.

“So that helped me to realise that even as a filmmaker, whatever I am writing has to speak the truth and help someone find peace. The defining moment for me was the AMVCA nomination, which made me realise that my space was not in the front of the camera but at the back. And the moment I accepted that, every other thing fell into place,” she said.

‘Joba,’ a faith-based movie, announces Stephen’s return to the cinema after her movies, ‘Picture Perfect’ and ‘The Visit.’ It features Blossom Chukwujekwu, Enado Odigie, Chris Ihuewa, Ronke Ojo and Christine Osifuye.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]