Johnny Depp, ex-wife’s domestic abuse case gets even messier
Ademola Olonilua

Back in 2016, many became interested in the domestic abuse charges against Johnny Depp. According to testimonies of his ex-wife, Amber Heard, of the incident, her ex-husband had hit her (with photos to support this) and at one point, she took a video of him flinging a wine glass in a fit of rage. She said Depp would lose his temper and lash out on her, verbally and physically.

Naturally, people rallied behind Heard and condemned Depp’s actions, despite claims from his ex, Vanessa Paradis, and friend, Doug Stanhope, that he would never hurt a woman. It even went as far as calling Heard a gold-digger and a liar, which was below-the-belt and disrespectful to other victims of domestic abuse.

However, the perception the public have of Depp has recently changed after he filed a $50m (about N18bn) defamation case against Heard and has presented evidence that he was allegedly on the receiving end of the abuse.

Heard had talked about the domestic abuse in a 2018 Washington Post op-ed, which prompted Depp’s defamation lawsuit against her.

“The op-ed depended on the central premise that Ms Heard was a domestic abuse victim and that Mr Depp perpetrated domestic violence against her,” the complaint read. It also stated that all of Heard’s claims were “categorically and demonstrably false” and that there are testimonies from two separate police officers, third-party witnesses, and 87 newly-obtained surveillance videos that could refute her.

The lawsuit also listed down incidents of Heard’s alleged abuse since the start of their marriage, including punching and kicking, as well as staging her attacks. The Blast managed to obtain a photo of Depp’s black-eye which was allegedly caused by Heard after he was late for her 30th birthday dinner on April 21, 2016.

Another instance detailed her throwing a vodka bottle at Depp, resulting in a hand injury. TMZ reported on something similar in 2016 when the actor accidentally sliced his finger and allegedly wrote “Billy Bob” on a mirror, who he accused Heard of cheating with. Back then, it was reported that he was injured while abusing his then-wife.

This gets messier: The court document noted that Heard was previously arrested for “violent domestic abuse and having confessed under oath to a series of violent attacks on Mr Depp.” It added that she allegedly staged all of this to advance her career.

Depp’s legal team believes Heard fabricated her claims in an effort to propel her career as the #MeToo movement was in full swing.

In the light of the fresh evidence, some supporters of Depp are calling for justice, saying his endorsement deals that had been cancelled by some companies should be ‘uncancelled’.

Depp’s net worth

One of Hollywood’s most celebrated actors, Depp, will be 56 on June 9, 2019. In May 2016, Depp’s net worth was estimated at $400m (N144bn), according to Celebrity Net Worth. Two years later, the site reported that his fortune had been slashed in half to $200m (about N72bn). And even that is likely out of date, as a series of stories about legal troubles, lawsuits, and wranglings with former managers and attorneys has most believing that his fortune has diminished to a tiny portion of what it once was. This means the actor has managed to squander most of the $650m (about N234bn) he has earned acting.

A lack of income seemingly isn’t to blame for Depp’s money woes, as Forbes estimated his 2016 earnings at $48m (about N17bn).

Depp’s property and its cost

In January 2017, Depp filed a $25m (about N9bn) lawsuit, accusing his former business managers of fraud and mismanagement. His managers countersued, claiming that the actor led an “extravagant and extreme” lifestyle, which included buying 14 properties and a 156-foot yacht and spending $3.6m (about N1.3bn) a year to pay his 40-person staff.

The lawsuit was settled in July. No details were released at the time, but a spokesman for Depp said in a statement that the actor was “pleased” with the outcome. Take a look at some of the insane real estate that he has loved, lost, and held on to over his career. Depp’s business managers alleged that he spent over $75m (about N27bn) to “acquire, improve and furnish 14 residences,” according to the lawsuit.

His managers persuaded him to sell some of these properties to keep up with monthly bills that totalled $2m (about N722m). One of those monthly costs was upkeep for his 150-foot luxury yacht – Amphitrite – which he reportedly spent $18m (about N6.5bn) on.

His managers claimed that Depp would not be able to afford the $350,000 (about N126m) monthly upkeep he had laid out for this yacht. Joel Mandel, his accountant, convinced Depp to sell the yacht, and it was reportedly bought by JK Rowling in 2016. JK Rowling reportedly put the yacht up for sale just eight months after she bought it. It was sold in July 2017.

Some of Depp’s other extravagant purchases have still not been sold. He owns a 37-acre village in the south of France. A spokesperson for Christie’s told Business Insider that the property was taken off the market at the end of 2017. The property is located outside the exclusive seaside town of Saint-Tropez. When it was last listed, the price was available only upon request. However, in the past, it has been listed for $25m (about N9bn). Depp invested about $11m (about N4bn) into restoring its 18th-century buildings.

The estate includes the main house, six guest cottages (one of which is a converted chapel), and a restaurant. There are 15 bedrooms and 14 bathrooms in total. It also has two pools and a painter’s studio, which, according to the previous listing, is a favorite room of Depp’s.

Depp also owns a three-island property in the Bahamas, which he bought for $5.35m (about N2bn), according to the Hollywood Reporter. Known as “Little Halls Pond Cay,” it has six different beaches. But his most extravagant purchase was perhaps his five penthouses, which are all in the same building in Downtown Los Angeles.

The penthouses are in the landmark Art Deco-style Eastern Columbia Building. Depp purchased the units for around $7.2m (about N2.5bn) between 2007 and 2008.

Originally, they were listed together for $12.78m (about N4.6bn) but were sold separately, bringing in a total of $10.88m (about N4bn). The last property was sold in November 2017 for $1.4m. And then there are the five houses that Depp still owns on a cul-de-sac in the Hollywood Hills, which are collectively worth $19m (about N6.9bn), according to the Hollywood Reporter. According to US Weekly, Depp had considered building a tunnel between the homes.

Depp’s cars

Rolls Royce Wraith

Not only does he get hit by a Rolls Royce Wraith on a movie set, but he also owns one, and it’s thought to have cost the Pirates of the Caribbean star around $328,000 (about N118m).

The car has a top speed of 155.3 mph, is powered by a 6.6-litre V12 engine and has a 0-60 mph time of around 4.4 seconds.

The interior of the car has some amazing tech, including a 10.3in high-definition multimedia display that is revealed from behind a sliding wood panel and the fingertip-sensitive iDrive-style rotary controller.

The car has an onboard voice control system, satellite navigation, Bluetooth, Real-Time Traffic Information, eight-speed automatic transmission, and USB connectivity along with a hat stand… because everybody needs a hat stand in their car!

2015 Range Rover

There are not that many cars in Depp’s collection, however, he has owned a couple including a 2015 Range Rover.

This model is thought to retail for above $54,000 (about N20m) or the base SE model and can be powered by a five litre V6 or V8 engine.

The car has a top speed of 162mph and 0-60 mph can be achieved in just 4.5 seconds, with the car also features a high end 8-speed automatic transmission.

16-way adjustable seats, an Adaptive Dynamics system, which monitors vehicle movements at least 500 times a second, and four-corner air suspension make this a great car for Depp to drive.

1959 Corvette

Depp’s chrome red colored 1959 Corvette roadster can easily reach a top speed of 128 mph, and he received the vintage Corvette as a gift from Graham King.

The actor has been photographed many times taking out his open-top sports car on long drives near his Los Angeles home.

The car also featured in several movie scenes while filming The Rum Diary, that follows journalist, Paul Kemp (Johnny Depp), as he decides he’s had enough of New York and takes a job in Puerto Rico.

Sources: thejakartapost.com, nme.com; ca.finance.yahoo.com and businessinsider.com

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]