It’s not easy crossing from vet medicine to music —Beautiful Nubia
Popular folk and roots musician, Segun Akinlolu, aka Beautiful Nubia, speaks to JOY MARCUS about music and other issues

Why do you think that these days, musicians only sing about money, women and sex?

I think people can sing about whatever they like because it is their song and they have the choice to do whatever kind of music they want. However, I choose to sing about more serious things because I prefer to use my music as a means to help people in finding their way to achieving personal and communal development and progress.

Do you think that musicians should preserve our culture and traditions through songs?

I think that the kind of songs a musician plays is one of the indirect responsibilities of that musician but some people make it their main preoccupation, which to me is commendable.

Do you think musicians have a role to play in society?

Musicians play many important roles in society such as being the custodians of culture, motivators, educators, philosophers and being an agent of upliftment.

When did you develop the interest in music?

I started dreaming of becoming a musician as a child because I loved music even at that tender age. Then, I began to write songs when I was about nine years old. However, I transitioned from being a veterinary doctor to a musician.

Since you had passion for music from the outset, why didn’t you go ahead to follow your passion early?

I didn’t follow my passion from the onset because I decided to go to school first and make good use of the knowledge acquired there. And I am glad I did.

Was it easy to transition from being a veterinary doctor to a musician?

No, it wasn’t. But I had prepared myself for it right from the beginning; I made the career transition when it was time. I enjoyed my career as a veterinary doctor; it was full of great moments and I am enjoying my life as an artiste now too. I believe life is what you make of it.

How and when did you develop your band?

I started building the band with the help of some musician friends as far back as 1997. So, we were able to make up the numbers one after the other. However, some people, who joined the band, left while some stayed but the main core of people in the band stayed together for years. And some of those early members are still with me.

Your kinds of songs are different from what we hear every day. What inspires you?

I would say that my primary inspiration is the gift of song writing. The rest is just me having the presence of mind and focus to put the songs down, arrange and record them.

How has the journey been since you started full time?

It has been lots of fun; full of ups and downs but still lots of fun. I love music and when you love something that much, you enjoy every part of it.

You always infuse Yoruba language into your music. Why do you do that?

I infuse Yoruba, English and our peculiar Nigerian pidgin because they are the three languages I speak and it’s natural that I employ them in my music.

When you suddenly quit your job, did you get support from family members and friends?

Yes, I did get support from my family members. Also, everyone seemed quite excited for me.

Did you have difficulty breaking into the music industry, going by the kind of music you do?

Like any new entrant into the music business, it was tough in the early days but I was very focused and determined to succeed. So, whatever impediment came my way, I just took it in my stride and kept marching forward.

It’s been a while we heard from you.

What have you been up to musically?

I am still doing music. As a matter of fact, I am currently in the studio. Also, I released Sounds of Joy, an autobiography of myself; and Book of Songs, a compendium of some of my original songs from 1997 to date, including interesting tidbits and anecdotes on the songs. I also released A Word Merchant’s LogBook, a collection of poetry.

You are hardly seen at social functions. Why is that?

I do go to functions if I am invited but I am not your typical social butterfly.

Where are you based?

A musician doesn’t have a base because we go everywhere. We are not like people who sell bread. We go where the music leads us.

When was the lowest point in your career and life?

I have never had a low point in my career or life. I don’t hang on to negatives; I rather use them as a stepping stone and discard them from my memory.

Your hair is unique. Were you born with it or did you groom it?

I have been keeping my hair for the past 19 years; no combing, twisting or artificial locking. My mother said I was born with locks but they were cut off early in life. So I guess they’ve now regained their pride of place.

What is your view on politics in Nigeria?

I feel that we are still a long way from the modern society we all dreamt about. As it is, we are not that politically sophisticated, which can be frustrating for those seeking quick solutions to our many developmental problems. So, whatever progresses we can celebrate have been very slow in coming. But as long as we keep improving our political processes, there is hope.

What inspired the name Beautiful Nubia?

I gave myself that stage name in 1997. I was riding a wave of self-awareness and spiritual enlightenment at the time. It is a lovely name and it has worked well. ‘Beautiful’ refers to a state of spiritual perfection in which one is incapable of hatred. That’s a state I want for myself. ‘Nubia’ is the name of a nation of dark-skinned people who ruled the world about 3,000 years ago. People you can be proud of, be in awe of and emulate.

You are also referred to as ‘Eni Obanke’. Can you tell us more about how that name came about?

‘Eni Obanke’ is a name that I made up for myself many years ago. It means ‘he or she who is beloved by the king’. It is a very beautiful name which I considered using as a stage name initially but then decided to use it instead as the name of my registered company. Some people are now using it for all kinds of things and wrongly assuming it’s an ancient Yoruba name. But that is not true because I created it. And it makes me really happy to see many people now giving it to their children. At one of our recent concerts, there were lots of children running around and at least five of them were named Eni Obanke.

What are your aspirations?

My aspiration is to continue to use my artistic and leadership skills to help bring sanity to our communities and progress to society. Also, I want to continue to use my work as a successful tool of mass sensitisation and reformation.

How do you relax?

Relaxation for me is being in a quiet place with some good music and books to read.

What is your educational qualification?

I graduated from the University of Ibadan with a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree, and I have a Post-Graduate Diploma from the Nigeria Institute of Journalism.

Can you describe your fashion sense?

My definition of fashion is simple, comfortable, functional but well styled. Also, I love all colours –whether it is bright or dark. I basically dress to suit the occasion.

Why do you only dress in African print?

I am an African and proud of it.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]