People criticise me when I sing secular songs –Esther Igbekele
Gospel artiste, Esther Igbekele, has said she always gets criticized anytime she sings secular songs and says slangs in church. According to her, the reason why she sings such songs is because some of the lines minister to her sometimes.

“Growing up as a child, my parents frowned on us listening to secular songs. However, when I got into school, I mixed with some friends that were obviously from backgrounds different from mine, so I used to listen to secular songs. I left my parents early in life to live with a pastor and I was also restricted. When I decided to have a band of my own at 18, some guys called me to join their band because I had good potential.

“I followed those guys to sing at different events and we used to sing secular songs, so I cannot say I have never sang secular songs. In that band, sometimes I led or was a backup singer. As a musician, I don’t discriminate because I believe in the power of angels; there are some angels that distribute some inspirational songs, and they deliver them to these secular artistes.

“There was a song that did well last year – Able God. The lyrics showed that it is a prayerful song and everyone could relate to it because everybody needs God in their lives. The thing with secular artistes is that sometimes it may be difficult to reconcile the video with the audio.

“When I sing some lines I like in some secular songs, some people may say I am worldly. It could be secular, but that line must have ministered to my need at that time. I don’t judge anyone; I don’t try to look holier than anyone. Things have really changed; during my days as a youth, we used to embrace gospel songs, but young people these days hardly listen to gospel songs.

“People criticise me a lot when I sing secular songs in church. I try to explain to them that some of these slangs can be used to praise God. For example, ‘Gbe body e’; this slang can be used to say every living soul should praise the lord. This slang is trending, even some couples use it to interact with themselves.

“Some people feel too proud to sing and dance in church, so ‘gbe body e’ can minister to them to lift their bodies up to praise the Lord. I recently composed a song around this secular slang to praise the Lord. People will still criticise me that it is a secular slang. I don’t sing secular songs anymore but I can still sing secular love songs at events when necessary; I just try not to use their vulgar languages,” she told Saturday Beats.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]