My father summoned family meeting over my decision to act —Efe Irele
Kore Ogidan

Background

I was born in Lagos to a father from Edo State and an Itsekiri (Delta State) mother but I like to claim to be from Lagos because that’s where I was born. I have three siblings – two sisters and a brother. We were a middle class family but very comfortable. My parents ensured that our educational foundation was very strong. It was an amazing experience growing up with my siblings, especially with my brother being autistic.

Education

For my elementary education, I attended Corona Primary School, Gbagada, Lagos. I actually attended three secondary schools and finished from Queen’s College, Yaba, Lagos. I graduated from Bowen University, Iwo, Osun State, where I bagged a Bachelor in Sociology. After that, I underwent the National Youth Service Corps scheme in Ibadan, Oyo State. Right after my service, I enrolled at the University of Chester in London, United Kingdom, where I obtained a Master in Human Resources Management.

Corporate career

After obtaining my master, I moved back to Nigeria and worked as an HR manager for about six months at a procurement company. And I believe those were the worst six months of my life. I knew that that wasn’t where I wanted to be. I knew I belonged to the entertainment industry and that is where I wanted to be. Before I quit my job after those six months, I had started an event management company and I did a few courses at weekends, trying to learn about the industry. I like planning parties and did a few under my event management company.

Acting

While I was still trying to discover myself, I used to be a video vixen and I appeared in Adekunle Gold’s Sade video which required a bit of acting. When people saw my performance, they encouraged me to pursue acting, which I had never considered before then. So, I agreed to the idea and started attending auditions.

My first time on set was for the movie, Aso Ebi, which got converted to a TV series. I felt like I was going to die. I had no idea what to do. I was so tense that I didn’t get my lines right. I have been acting for a little over three years and I’ve learnt to be patient and persevere. There is also a lot of competition although there really isn’t the need for that. I’ve learnt to accept things the way they are.

Parents’ reaction

My parents wanted me to work as they had spent a lot of money on my education; so, when I came back to Nigeria, they got a corporate job for me, but they later realised I was very unhappy there. When I told them I wanted to go into acting fully, my mum was supportive because she had always encouraged me to do what I want, as long as it’s right and I’m happy. My dad, however, refused. He called a family meeting on the issue and reported me to my uncles and aunties. When he eventually saw my projects, he was very proud of me.

Breakthrough

The movie that gave me great recognition is The Real Side Chic, where I played the character, Keke, alongside Daniel Lloyd. When I got the script, I loved it because it was an interesting story. A fascinating fact is that it was the first time I kissed in a movie and it was very awkward.

Fears

I worried that I wasn’t doing well and that people would perceive my acting as poor or fake, and that my last movie would be my last movie because no one would call me for a role again.

Efe Irele Autism Foundation

My younger brother is autistic and that spurred my interest in starting the foundation. That enlightened me at an early age to know what autism was. Interestingly, my mum used to instil the understanding of what my brother had in me; ensuring I took him out without being ashamed of him. I realise that many people neglect autistic people and sometimes even stigmatise them.

Going to the UK to study gave me a further exposure on autism and how the Nigerian society treats people living with such in comparison to those overseas. I started the foundation in 2017 and inaugurated it with a programme called Christmas with the Family, which is an annual event.

Hobbies

Acting has completely taken over my life that I don’t have hobbies anymore. I used to love swimming but I don’t do that anymore. I spend my free time being around my family nowadays. I also love going to the club and dancing. I always hang out with my brother; he is everything to me!

Fashion

I am all about comfort.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]