Patoranking, Wande Coal, Niniola others for Gidi Fest
Olushola Ricketts

[email protected]

08169745730 (SMS only)

The sixth edition of the annual music festival, Gidi Culture Festival, better known as Gidi Fest, will hold on April 20 at the Landmark Beachfront, Victoria Island, Lagos.

Speaking at a press conference, the convener of Gidi Fest, Chin Okeke, said this year’s edition would focus on where it all began. He said, “2019 will see a return to our roots of promoting the future of African music. When we started, we couldn’t invite top artistes to Gidi Fest. We grew based on experience and how people identified with the platform as well as what it represented. I think we are still one of the few platforms where people buy tickets not necessarily because of the performing artistes, but because of the experience they will get when they attend.”

Okeke said he was committed to discovering Africa’s future talents with the festival. He stated, “I do a lot of work in the United Kingdom and the United States, and the question in the last few months has been who is next or what is next? Also, I like to feature unknown or new artistes at my events because someone has to help them.”

Meanwhile, the Lagos State Commissioner of Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mr. Steve Ayorinde, commended the organisers for their consistency. He said, “The Lagos State Government is happy to endorse and be associated with the Gidi Culture Festival for six consecutive years. The festival has been consistent with aligning with the mandate of the state’s ministry of tourism, arts and culture to use music and the creative energy of our teeming youths to further promote the image of our state as a prime destination and powerhouse of the creative economy.”

Tagged ‘Your Voice, Your Choice,’ the likes of Wande Coal, Patoranking, Niniola, Teni The Entertainer, Moonchild Sanelly, DJ Neptune, Lax, Zlatan Ibile and DJ Nana have been confirmed for the event. Also, fun-seekers will get to see the performances of next generation acts such as BlaqBonez, Boogey, Dami Oniru, Mich Straaw, Mo’ Believe, Ogaranya and Tems, among others.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]