I only assisted, I didn’t write One for Tiwa Savage – Wale Turner
Olushola Ricketts; [email protected]; 08169745730 (SMS only)

Up-and-coming singer, Wale Turner, has said that contrary to claims in some quarters, he didn’t write the song, One, which was released by Tiwa Savage. According to him, he only assisted in the creative process of making the track.

Speaking through his manager, Dare Farotimi, the singer stated, “Whenever Tiwa is recording in the studio, I am usually with her. It was on one of those occasions that she recorded the song (One) and I was there to support her.”

Reacting to Danny Young’s claim that Tiwa infringed on his copyright as she used some of the lines in his song, Oju ti Won, and his subsequent lawsuit, Farotimi said, “Danny Young doesn’t have a case. There should have been a proper conversation, instead of him attacking Tiwa on social media. I feel there are better ways the issue could have been addressed. Although he said he contacted Tiwa’s management and they ignored him, I don’t think he reached out to the right persons. I am not a bad person and I am not trying to support anyone. But I know Tiwa and her team very well; I know they pay attention to details. We didn’t even think about Danny Young when we were recording the song.”

Dare added, “I was there when Wale assisted in writing the song at Eko Hotels and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. It was at the same time they were recording DJ Enimoney’s song, Diet. Tiwa had lodged producers such as Spellz, Sarz and Killertunz in the hotel.

“In music, you are allowed to use another person’s language or lyrics but it must not exceed a certain time limit. It is only if it exceeds 10 to 15 seconds that you would be accused of copyright infringement. The particular line in question is a Yoruba adage and I don’t think anyone can lay claim to the ownership of the adage.”

READ ALSO: I don’t regret getting married to Abounce – Yvonne Jegede

Meanwhile, when Sunday Scoop contacted Tiwa Savage’s manager, Mekka Millions, he confirmed that her team was aware of the issue and it was true that Danny Young had contacted them. “I would have to speak with the public relations team before I can say anything about it,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]