Actress, Adesua Etomi covers Vogue with 13 other ‘global superstars’
Nigerian actress, Adesua Etomi-Wellington has been featured on Vogue’s list of 14 global superstars.

Vogue is a leading international fashion magazine.

Adesua was featured in the April issue of the magazine alongside 14 actresses from 14 countries across several film industries including Hollywood, Bollywood and Nollywood.

She announced the feature on her Instagram page @adesuaetomi. She said, “Nigeria to the world. Celebrate brown girl MAGIC.

READ ALSO: INEC presents certificates of return to senators-elect

“I’m so thrilled to reveal my cover for @voguemagazine’s April issue celebrating this talented group of women from across the globe.”

About Adesua, Vogue wrote, “The Nigerian actress Adesua Etomi-Wellington can’t walk down the street in Lagos without getting mobbed.

“If she’s with her husband, the actor Banky Wellington, forget it—a trip to the grocery store launches a thousand selfies.

“But unlike some of her cohorts on the shoot, she’s more of a third-culture kid, born in Nigeria and raised mainly in England.

“She went to school in Coventry, studied drama at University of Wolverhampton, and then got a nine-to-five job with the fashion arm of a large supermarket chain. It was then that, as she puts it, “I can’t explain it—I felt I had to go back to Nigeria.”

“In fact, she points out, of the four films that have done best for the relatively young industry, she is in three.

“I love, love, love Nollywood,” Etomi-Wellington says brightly over tea and biscuits at the shoot,” Vogue wrote.

Reacting to the feature, her husband Banky W gushed on Instagram via his handle @Bankywellington.

He said, “Breaking news: My wife is on the cover of VOGUE MAGAZINE!!!!!!!!!! Susu you are such a star and an inspiration!!!

“I’m so PROUD of you and happy for you. You’re an incredible actor, and an even more incredible human being.

“You deserve to shine so bright that the whole world has no choice but to see it. This is incredible. Thank you to @voguemagazine and glory to God.

“Ladies and gentlemen, Please if you see me walking around with high shoulders today, you shld understand. Link to the cover story is in my profile,” he said.

NAN reports that Adesua was featured alongside Doona Bae, Golshifteh Farahani, Eiza Gonzalez, Hera Hilmar, Scarlett Johansson, Vanessa Kirby and Bruna Marquezine.

(NAN)