Your action is despicable, Toyin Abraham tells MC Galaxy
Stories: Chux Ohai

Nollywood actress, Toyin Abraham, has severely criticised singer MC Galaxy for allegedly requesting young women to go nude in exchange for N50,000.

The actress, in a statement posted on her Instagram page, described the singer’s action as “despicable, debasing, and bad in every way”.

She wrote, “Dear MC Galaxy, what you did asking girls to go naked for 50k is despicable, debasing, and bad in every way. You have just further strengthened the belief that the easiest way women can get things is to sell their bodies.

“I sincerely can’t fathom what you need or gain from this despicable act when you could have checked in on pornographic sites on the Internet. I am not trying to be a moral judge. I am the least qualified to judge a fellow human, but just the way you used your influence and platform for this woman-debasing act, I am also using mine to stand against an act that ridicules women and further proves that some men are scum.

“See what people like Linda Ikeji, Kemi Adetiba, Chimamanda Adichie, even your friend, Laura Ikeji and other women are doing with their platforms. They lift other women by living, giving and not asking for nudes.

“You can as well follow the examples of young men like Davido, Tunde Ednut, Wizkid and Banky W. My message to those girls that went naked on your page is this: please let’s do better, let’s stop making men like Mr. Galaxy think everything about women is money.

“Don’t sell yourself short because of 50k. It is the least sum of money that you will make in your lifetime. We are women, we are powerful and we are not cheap.”

But MC Galaxy had earlier, in a statement posted on Instagram, denied that he asked young women to pose nude for N50,000. The singer wrote, “On Friday night, I held a live session on IG where fans called in to show their talents. Some rapped, some sang and some danced. We got calls from everywhere. At some point, a particular lady called in without her clothes on. I actually dropped her off, but, from the comments, the fans insisted that I accept her request. So I did.

“As she danced, a friend declared her the winner and promised to give her N50,000. At no point did I offer anyone N50,000 to dance naked. There was no prize tag for anybody to go naked. This issue was a case of Instagram live that went out of hand.

“If you follow my page, you would know that I have the utmost respect for women. I have helped a lot of my female followers, ladies who have needed help for an issue or the other, without asking anything in return and without informing anyone. My apologies. We will handle things better next time.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]