Rebecca Omordia back in Nigeria for more thrilling performances
Ace pianist, Rebecca Omordia, is due back in Nigeria between March 16 and 21, 2019. This time around, she will be shuttling between Abuja and Lagos, dazzling her audiences, who are already in high spirits and ready for another spell of thrilling classical music performances.

Omordia is scheduled to give a Masterclass in Lagos on March 16 with the students of the MUSON School of Music. The following day, March 17, will see her replicating the electrifying performances that once held Lagos classical music buffs awed and speechless during her first visit.

Abuja will be the pianist’s next port of call on March 21 where she is expected to perform in a recital organised by the Romanian Embassy to celebrate Romanian’s presidency at the European Union.

“It is very special to me performing in my fatherland” the Nigerian-Romanian pianist said when asked about her expectations.

“Last year, the Nigerian audience made me feel like I truly belong there. I am honoured to perform at MUSON, the very centre of classical music in West Africa and happy to give a Masterclass to the talented piano students of MUSON School of Music. I am very much looking forward to performing for them again” she added.

Omordia has done a lot to promote the classical music scene in Nigeria. Her CD, titled, Ekele was released last year on Heritage Records and it features works by three Nigerian composers of repute (Ayo Bankole, Christian Onyeji and Fred Onovwerosuoke). It has been described as a huge success in the United Kingdom and Europe. It has also enjoyed rave reviews in major newspapers across the continent. An Italian newspaper recently described it as an ‘appealing album’ and it earned accolades from the BBC Music Magazine and the Sunday Times, which also labeled it a ‘beautifully delivered recital’.

AMI5 recently appointed Omordia to curate a music programme that reflects the depth and diversity of African music art, the richly diverse genre of music that originated in Ghana and Nigeria, which also forms a bridge between Western classical music and traditional African music.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]