Producers can make profit despite cinemas’ exorbitant fees –Oma Nnadi
Tofarati Ige

[email protected]

08068792241 (SMS only)

Actress and movie producer, Oma Nnadi, believes that despite the activities of pirates and the huge percentage charged by cinema owners, filmmakers can still make profit if they have good content. She told Sunday Scoop, “The money charged by cinemas is actually exorbitant. They take the lion share of the money made but as it is presently, we don’t have a choice. The most important thing is to put your work out there and let people see and accept it. As long as you have good content, you would make your money back.”

Speaking about her new movie, Being Annabel, Nnadi stated, “This is actually my third movie but this is the first one going to the cinema. The movie centres around a lady who wanted to be someone she’s not and that is what informed the title. The lead characters are identical twin sisters and I acted as both of them. One of the twins committed suicide in the presence of the other, and the surviving twin tried to ‘take over’ the life of her sister, not knowing that the dead twin had a lot of demons she was battling with. The movie was shot in Lekki, Lagos, for eight days.”

Oma also stated that the movie cost her ‘a tidy’ sum of money. “I spent a lot of money shooting and promoting the movie. I spent about N12m filming the movie. That doesn’t include the post-production and promotion, which is way beyond that.

“We wanted to make sure that every actor could interpret the character they were assigned to properly. Otherwise, we could have chosen random actors that we wouldn’t have spent so much money on. But we went for people that we knew could deliver. If actors don’t interpret their roles well, viewers wouldn’t understand what they are watching,” she added.

The movie, which was premiered last Sunday, features actors such as Desmond Elliot, Alex Ekubo, Yvonne Jegede, Ken Erics, Chelsea Eze, and Padita Agu, among others.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]