Why Lagbaja won’t accuse me of intellectual theft – Seyi Shay
Olushola Ricketts

[email protected]

08169745730 (SMS only)

Singer, Seyi Shay, was recently accused of using the lyrics of veteran musician, Bisade Ologunde, aka Lagbaja’s song, Konko Below, in her recent track, Ko Ma Roll, featuring a Tanzanian artiste, Harmonize.

But while speaking with Sunday Scoop, Shay said she sought Lagbaja’s permission before putting out the song. She stated, “I am very aware that a part of my song, Ko Ma Roll, sounds like Lagbaja’s Konko Below. I decided to use the words, konko below, because they are catchy. I don’t think Lagbaja will accuse me of intellectual theft because we did the right thing. I explained to him and his team before I released the song.”

Seyi also maintained that she was not ashamed to sample Lagbaja’s words in her song. She said, “If people are accusing me of using Lagbaja’s lyrics, it is great because that is what I did. It was strategic and there was a reason for it. Lagbaja is like a father, as he has been in the industry for many years. I consider it an honour to be given permission to use a part of his song.

“I have never met Lagbaja but I love his music. Whenever I meet him, I will try to see his real face.”

The singer described Ko Ma Roll as a party song, which was inspired by the shaku skaku and zanku dance steps. According to her, she wanted to do a dance song, as it was a style she wasn’t really known for.

Shay also said she had plans for marriage but isn’t sure it would happen this year.

“I will get married and start a family soon but I don’t think it will happen this year. With the volume of work I have to do this year, I will feel sorry for my would-be husband. I will have to run around a lot and I don’t think I can do that with pregnancy. This year, I want to release more music and a new extended play album. I will also release videos for every song I put out,” she added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]