No gender imbalance in gospel music scene, says Sinach
Olushola Ricketts

[email protected]

08169745730 (SMS only)

Top gospel singer, Sinach Joseph, is presently on cloud nine, as her song, Way Maker, became the third Nigerian song ever to have 100 million views on video sharing website, YouTube.

Recall that in December 2018, Davido’s Fall became the first Nigerian song to make the cut. It was later followed by Yemi Alade’s Johnny.

Speaking with Sunday Scoop, Sinach said she was grateful to God for the feat. She stated, “This is only the beginning and we are not resting on our oars. Way Maker brings hope to the hopeless, letting them know that God is still in the business of opening doors, mending broken hearts and changing hopeless situations. He is not doing this alone for us, but making us ‘way makers’ for others too. The song has really impacted a lot of lives.”

Describing the song as unique, the singer added, “Each time you listen to it, it gives a new meaning and releases a special blessing from God. It’s almost impossible for me to ascribe a finite value to a song and measure it with another. God blesses people differently with each song.”

Despite her apparent success as a singer, Sinach said she was determined to make more impact. She stated, “The path of the righteous shines more every day unto the perfect day. This means we will experience even more impact this year. I have started my online mentorship programme, which is in partnership with Gosgem, an international online music mentorship platform. There are thousands of aspiring musicians registered there. This year alone, we’ve visited Cyprus, Saint Maarten and the United Kingdom to hold live classes.”

Sinach added that there was no gender imbalance in the gospel music industry, saying the likes of Ayo Vincent, TY Bello, Jahdiel, Ebiere, Ada, Mercy Chinwo, Glowreeyah, and a host of other female artistes had been able to make appreciable impact. She added, “On my birthday, March 30, I’ll hold a concert at the Loveworld Arena in Lekki, Lagos. I have invited many wonderful female musicians to join me.”

Sinach stressed that she didn’t have any plan to leave music at some point to focus on other things. She said, “There isn’t retirement from music, as this is part of me.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]