I’ve not played my favourite role yet —Oluwaseun Osigbesan
Joy Marcus

Background

I am from Ijebu-Igbo, but I was born and raised in Abeokuta, both in Ogun State. I am the third child of my mum and the second female. My memorable childhood moments were the times we travelled yearly as a family for the Sallah celebration. I was always happy when it was time for Sallah because it was an opportunity to see my friends from Lagos again.

Education

I studied Performing Arts at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago Iwoye, Ogun State.

Acting

My interest in acting was stirred by watching home videos as a child. I could easily point out continuity errors in movies and my family members were always amazed at that. I also used to write stories, and ask my neighbours to act the characters. I would share the roles among them and take the lead. Acting comes naturally to me and my mum noticed, so she encouraged me early. I joined the movie industry in 2010 when I took up a role in a television series, Kamson and Neighbours. I got the role through one of my lecturers in school, Mrs. Joke Muyiwa, who introduced me to the executive producer of the series, Tunji Bamisigbin. After a year, I went for an audition called by Africa Magic and that was how I got on The Johnsons family show. This gave me leverage, and movie producers began calling me to feature in their movies. Some of the movies I have acted in include Truthful Lies, Truth or Die Black and 5th Anniversary.

Parents’ reaction

I got all the support I needed from my family, especially my mum. Before I got married, she always gave me transport fare to go for auditions. I am blessed with a family that believes in me.

Sexual harassment

It will be very great to have an industry devoid of sexual harassments, where aspiring female actors will be able to get roles strictly on merit and not by producers and directors taking advantage of them. Thankfully, the industry is getting better in that area.

The Johnsons

I got the role of Jennifer strictly on merit after I attended the audition. It wasn’t difficult fitting into the role because I could relate with it naturally. My experience on The Johnsons has also taught me to be able to work successfully with difficult people. However, I am looking forward to the time when I finally get to work with the filmmakers and actors I have been longing to meet and work with but have not had the opportunity to yet.

Stereotype

Acting a particular role for a long time automatically makes one a stereotyped actor and people might not see you beyond that character. However, acting as Jennifer provides me the opportunity to be different things. I have acted as a judge, bus conductor, an extremely sophisticated lady and a bully, all in one role as Jennifer. And that, to me, isn’t bad. Nevertheless, I look forward to taking up new challenges.

Favourite role

I can go to any length to interpret any role but my conscience restricts me in movies. However, I have not played my favourite role yet.

Philosophy

Life is a mystery. Nobody totally understands it, and nobody knows tomorrow. So, I try my best never to look down on anyone because life always has a way of elevating the same people you have ridiculed. Life has a way of disappointing one.

Turning point

My turning point will be when I go international.

Five-year plan

I see myself making my own films and impacting the lives of women across the nation in the next five years.

Marriage

Being married is a blessing and it has helped me to achieve some things I couldn’t have been able to do on my own.

Motherhood

Motherhood has helped me to become stronger and able to multitask. Also, I have learnt that being a mother shouldn’t stop you from pursuing your dreams. I got into the industry as a married woman and I started having kids immediately; so, it was really taxing for me as a nursing mother juggling set life and motherhood. At first, it was challenging but now, I cope very well because I have learnt to multitask.

Other interests

Aside acting, I host events and speak at conferences.

Regrets

I don’t have any regrets.

Fashion

My definition of fashion is being confident and comfortable in whatever you are putting on. Also, I can’t do without sunglasses and I cannot be caught wearing waist beads.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]