Gaise Baba plans to inspire young Nigerians through music
Nigerian afro-fusion artiste, Gaise Baban has introduced the LightOut Concert, an exciting gathering aimed at educating and impacting students in high schools and colleges with exemplary values and principles for a desirable future.

The concert, the artiste explains, leverages the infectious power of music to promote positive values among teenagers and young adults. Riding on the excitement created with the urban music, dance and spoken word, LightOut advocates estimable values like abstinence, diligence, stewardship and a sense of purpose.

The first edition of the concert was held in November 2017 at Kings College, Lagos. Sunsequent editions have since been held in many other concerts across Lagos, including Queens college, Dansol High school, Greensprings School, Oxbridge College, Federal Science and Technical College, as well as various youth groups and teenage camp meetings.

“For us at Greensprings, any investment towards motivating our students to get the best out of them is a worthwhile investment. Being at the LightOut concert, what I saw was using music and spoken word as avenues to motivate students to deploy their talents and energies in a positive way, and I think that is something that every school will want to achieve in their students, especially secondary school students where you have a lot competing for their attention,” the Principal of Greensprings Schools, Lagos, Magdalene Okrikri, said.

Also, the administrator at Oxbridge College, Ola Opesan, said, “I will certainly recommend this experience to many schools because you will not have too many organisations come through that can really connect with the students because of age and messaging, and let the students take and reflect upon the messages of abstinence, and these are very strong messages we need to put out there now so that we show the children the right way to go.”

With keen focus on Secondary Schools and Colleges, Gaise adds, the LightOut concert recognises the compelling instrumentality of music and entertainment as the singular language of millennials and Generation Z, and thus deploys it to counsel, inspire, guide aright and mentor students to make wise decisions at such a time as this.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]