New films, 1929, Knockout to hit cinemas in April
Chux Ohai

Nollywood filmmakers seem to be determined to fulfill the yearning of many Nigerians, especially the youth, to reconnect with the country’s past by coming up with historical films. The latest movie in that category, titled, ‘1929’, is about to be released by Viensa Productions in collaboration with Filmone Distribution any time in April.

Directed by Moses Eskor and featuring a stellar cast that includes, Sam Dede, Ireti Doyle, Sola Sobowale, Becky Odungide, Enobong Ekwere, Ndifreke Umoren, Nancy Bassey, Uduak Odungide and Ngozi Okeke, among others, the film tells the story of the famous Aba Women’s Riots of 1929, a celebrated revolt of the women in eastern Nigeria against the high-handedness of Warrant Chiefs appointed by the then British colonial administration, which led to the deaths of

the protesters.

The revolt broke out when thousands of Igbo women from the Bende District, Umuahia and other parts of eastern Nigeria travelled to the town of Oloko to protest against the conduct of the chiefs, whom they accused of restricting the role of women in government.

The Aba Women’s Riots of 1929, as it was named in British colonial records, is more aptly considered a strategically executed anti-colonial revolt organized by women to redress social, political and economic grievances.

Similarly, Wale Adenuga Productions have a special treat for lovers of comic films in Nigeria on April 19 in the form of a new movie titled Knockout.

Described as a big-budget film, Knockout tells the story of a group of people who make desperate efforts to participate in a boxing competition with a cash prize of $3m. Rich in humour and parading some of the best actors and actresses ever produced in the country, as well as a fair mix of standup comedians and music artistes, the film is directed by one of Nigeria’s foremost female directors, Patience Oghre and produced by Wale Adenuga Jnr.

The cast of Knockout include Sola Sobowale, Chiwetalu Agu, Toyin Abraham, Patience Ozokwor, Odunlade Adekola, Ngozi Nwosu, Jide Kosoko, Segun Arinze, Desmond Elliot, Hafiz Oyetoro, Ali Nuhu, Kenny Blaq, 9ice, Charles Okocha, Woli Arole, Gbenga Adeyinka, Klint Da Drunk, Akpan and Oduma.

Speaking on the movie, Adenuga Jnr said the production was aimed at giving cinema lovers in the country the best of comedy for Easter and beyond. He explained that the organisation had investedt the best of its resources in the film and encouraged cinema lovers not to miss the memorable moments that the film promises, come April 19.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]