Ekunrawo moves to conquer music industry
Ademola Olonilua and Timilehin Akinkahunsi

Fast rising artiste, Adeleke Timileyin Tunde, popularly known as Ekunrawo, has set his sights on conquering the Nigerian music and fashion industry with the official release of his latest single ‘This is between us’.

The multilingual Russian-based-Nigerian born artiste, who is also a fledgling model, recently revealed that having performed before a mammoth crowd in the United States of America, London, Russia, Cyprus, Belgium, and Ukraine, he felt it was time to make his mark in his home country.

“You know as the saying goes, east or west, home is best. I have performed in the US, London, Russia and a host of other European countries, I feel it is time to return home to contribute my quota to the development of the Nigerian music industry and also to make a name for myself here,” he said.

Speaking on his love for entertainment, he revealed that the love started from an early age. “My love for entertainment started at a very early stage, as a young boy, as early as when I was eight years old. I was always breakdancing with friends; we went as far as forming a group to entertain people and we performed in many competitions across Africa,” he said.

His foray into music started shortly after he left high school when he released his first song.

“After I left high school, I discovered that making music was my calling and I went straight into it by writing and releasing my first song, the feeling I got from this achievement was exhilarating,” he said.

A staunch believer in education, he moved to Russia in pursuit of higher education. He is a Civil Engineer and Architect from The Institute of Architecture and Civil Engineering of Volgograd State Technical University in Russia (IACE of VSTU). His educational pursuit did not stop his love for music as he continues to churn out good music.

Ekunrawo eventually shot his first music video for a song he recently composed and delivered in Russian and English language. “The song is titled– ЭтоМеждуНами – meaning, ‘This is between us’, to explain and express the meaning of love. I have also finished shooting the music video of this massive song and I want to assure my teeming fans that it will surpass their expectation,” he said.

Ekunrawo described his music as Afrobeat with the fusion of hip hop and dancehall.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]