What people think about my reaction to Wizkid’s comment doesn’t bother me –Raybekah
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Artiste and songwriter, Rebecca Arinola, popularly known as Raybekah, seemed to be on top of the world when Wizkid, whom she had described as her mentor, followed her on Instagram.

In an interview with Saturday Beats, she described the experience as one she would continue to relive for a long time.

“I rejoiced the way I did after Wizkid acknowledged my voice because he is my mentor. I always wished for that moment when he would follow me on Instagram. People abused me for reacting that way, but I don’t care because I couldn’t hide my feelings. I just see it as the hand of God in my life. My motivation increased from 38 per cent to 105.

“I have received over eighty phone calls from people after Wizkid followed me on Instagram. A lady called me to tell me I inspired her to forge ahead with her music career. These are the types of things I want to do with my music.

“I’ve started singing since I was six years old; it has not been easy because there is a lot of competition in the industry. The fact that there are better people than me in the industry drains me because I have to put in a lot of effort to stay relevant.

“I used to be intimidated when I started but I am stronger now, I am more confident now. I have sacrificed a lot of things to get to where I am today. My dad is also a vocalist, he was in full support of my music career at the initial stage, but when things went sour, I lost his support. My parents have been praying for me to be successful since. It was difficult because my dad was my backbone.

“I had issues with my family members because they wanted me to focus on my education but I didn’t give up, I was still pushing,” she told Saturday Beats.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]