I had fever immediately my Instagram page was hacked –Ogbeni Adan
Comedian and actor, Ogbeni Adan, is known for his comedy skits about African parents. In a recent interview, he talked about some of the challenges he had to face in his career at the initial stage. His brand was built around social media and when his account was hacked, it seemed like a major setback.

He said, “The day my Instagram page was hacked, I had instant fever; I was having fun when someone called me that he noticed my page could not be accessed. I laughed it off because I didn’t want to believe it. I tried to log into the page but I was not able to do so. My body temperature increased immediately. My friends encouraged me to open another page immediately, and that was how I started all over again. It was a very bad experience for me.

“Initially, I opened my account for personal reasons, but as time went on, I started posting some videos about my daily activities. Interestingly, most of the big names in Nollywood became my fans and they started reposting most of my videos. Most of the popular actors and actresses helped me grow my fan base with their reposts.

“Sadly in 2017, my page got hacked when I had almost attracted 200,000 followers, so I had to start building my page all over again. I am grateful to God that despite the setback, my followers have been increasing because I post contents consistently.”

Asked about the source of his inspiration for his skits, he identified his father’s disciplined nature as the major inspiration behind his skits.

“My father is a disciplined man, so I got the traits of an African parent from him. I never liked reading, so my father was very hard on me. Anytime I brought my result home, he would always count the number of red scores there; that would determine the number of strokes of the cane I would receive that day.

“He wanted me to be a bookworm; my grandfather was also like that, so he got it from his father. It is very funny that African fathers always think the only way to discipline a child is by not sparing the rod. I was a little bit stubborn while I was growing up; I always wanted to have fun. I also imitate my grandparents in my skits sometimes.

“I have been acting from the church, he is a pastor. He supported me when I started, but he still wanted me to get the best education. There was a time he called me to tell me he was watching one of my skits on television, I could feel the joy in his voice. He once told me that when he watches my skits he forgets I am his son after laughing so hard. Anytime I travel to see him, I always look for a storyline from his ways of doing things.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]