Excitement as Lagos International Food and Drinks Festival returns
Dayo Ojerinde

Encouraged by an immensely successful outing in 2018, the organisers of Nigeria’s biggest festival of food, drinks and culture, the Lagos International Food and Drinks Festival, have concluded arrangements to hold the third edition of the event on March 23, 2019 at the Eko Atlantic Waterfront, Victoria Island, Lagos.

Announcing this in Lagos at the weekend, the Festival Director, Mr. Ike Steve, said, “As a brand, Nigeria resonates with international audiences well beyond its actual square footage and her music, culture, creativity and food, among others, have continued to grab the attention of the rest of the world.

“The Lagos International Food and Drinks Festival was inspired by this audacious and pervasive cultural energy that has translated into the bold flavours of our cuisine and the pungent, heady sensibilities of our spirits.”

As always, the festival is expected to feature a wide range of exciting activities, including a presentation of indigenous cuisines and drinks sampled from over 40 Nigerian ethnic groups, live musical performances by renowned Nigerian artists, live comedy shows, performances by cultural dance groups, chef masterclasses, food/art exhibitions, wine tasting sessions and seminars on food and nutrition.

Other activities expected to light up the festival are cooking, music, dancing and eating and drinking competitions, as well as children’s fun sessions, SMSE match-making sessions and sales bazaars.

Stressing that more than 10,000 visitors and up to 100 vendors are expected to attend and participate in the festival, Steve said, “The event promises non-stop entertainment, including a variety of drinks, food stalls, live music, games, comedy and sweepstakes. We expect that it will become a regular feature on the Lagos social calendar in due course.

“We are confident that this festival, when nurtured to its full potential, will bolster the business behind the food industry in Nigeria. Think of the great economic advantage and benefits that will accrue to the participating chefs, caterers, restaurants and hotels that will provide them with shelter, as well as the spin-offs it would create for local suppliers of goods and services to the food industry.

“Now think of what will happen when we expose the product to the rest of the world. The world will come to understand that Nigeria is so much more than her current stereotype. In return, this will benefit our tourism industry, impact positively on our exports, in terms of goods and services, and help to generate much needed foreign exchange. This is why we are hosting the Lagos International Food and Drinks Festival – a full day celebration of the finest foods and drinks that Nigeria has to offer the rest of the world.”

The festival director promised that visitors would be exposed to “diverse and all-inclusive gastronomic exploits,” as well as an opportunity to attend a wide range of creative events during the festival.

“Visitors will include everyone interested in food and drinks – consumers, bulk buyers, distributors and buying agents, producers, purchasing personnel, suppliers, hotels and restaurants, financiers, etc.

“For organisations interested in exposing their brands, products or services, the Lagos International Food and Drinks Festival offers an exceptional and affordable platform to achieve this. Exhibitors include every player in the food, drinks and hospitality ecosystem, from manufacturers and producers to retailers and merchants; hoteliers and restaurants to financiers and government agencies,” he added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]