The dilemma of family entertainment in Nigeria
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Family entertainment has yet to be fully exploited in Nigeria; as most entertainment houses focus on the saleability of their products to the adult audience.

Statistics show that over fifty per cent of Nigeria’s population is between the ages of 15 and 64. But the entertainment honchos appear to have forgotten the ‘power persuasion’ that these 0 to14 year olds (over forty per cent) have on the older ones in the family, especially the parental figures.

Interestingly, there are child-entertainers like Emmanuella, Demilade Sax, Marylove Edwards, and so on; who create entertainment for children. However, a family-dedicated entertainment that would be accessible and appropriate for the Nigerian family system appears to be out of reach.

With the launch of MTN Nigeria’s partnership with Disney Africa, which offers a Disney web mobile service to the Nigerian market, there seems to be hope for family entertainment in Nigeria. Through this platform, family-friendly content has been made accessible to the young ones at a time when thousands of schools nationwide are opening their gates to allow students out for the holidays.

The houses and streets would be filled with young children pumping with adrenalin and searching voraciously for an activity that would engage their attention.

This mobile service has been touted to bring short videos, wallpapers, Disney films, channel information and trailers, to the young populace that will make up a quantifiable amount of its market. But beyond that, the service may hopefully have started a domino effect, that would spur on the indigenous participation in what could be the humble beginnings of an industry that could produce so much in less than a decade.

Disney recently marked its 90th year of existence, which was a worthy cause for the grand celebration that occurred in numerous locations around the world. The company has not only become a fantastically popular word synonymous with family entertainment but with resilience and ingenuity.

In 1927, Walt Disney, the founder of the company created a cartoon character named Oswald, the lucky rabbit. And there is a reason that this character has remained relatively unknown in 2018. In the late 1920s, this cartoon character became a hit and like any smart businessman, Walt was going to capitalise on this. Unfortunately, the distributor, Charles Bear Mintz, surreptitiously hired all his cartoonists. And as it turned out, sadly, the soon-to-be famous cartoonist had unwittingly relinquished his ownership of the Oswald character in a contract to the Jewish-American producer and distributor, Mintz. (In 2006, the Walt Disney Company managed to acquire the intellectual property of Oswald).

The immensely popular Mickey Mouse became the result of that loss. Beyond the magic, beyond the fairy tale, the story of resilience rings through from 90 years ago till date.

From then on, the company has metamorphosed into the juggernaut that it is now – from a start-up location at the back half of a real estate office on Kingswell Avenue in Hollywood to owning 725 Disney stores worldwide by 1999, and a $19bn acquisition of Capital Cities/ABC in 1996. And this resilience is sold in every single Disney product, whether merchandise, film, TV series, and so on. Over the years, it has been honed into a simple concept – “Every dream you have is possible”. This is an overarching chord that links through all that the company has created directly or through its subsidiaries. With global revenue of $59.43bn in 2017, most people may postulate that the formula has served the company tremendously well.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]