I don’t listen to other people’s music –Jesse Jagz
Tofarati Ige

[email protected]

08068792241 (SMS only)

Popular rapper, Jesse Jagz, doesn’t listen to any other artiste’s song, he recently revealed to Sunday Scoop. Responding to a question on which rapper he currently admires, Jagz said, “I don’t listen to other people’s music; I just like to do my thing. I create my own music and I motivate myself. I feel like everybody is doing fine in their own way but I just stay on my own lane. The only person I can put my money on is me.”

The rapper also disagreed with the opinion of some that rap music is fast dying in Nigeria. He said, “It is not true that rap music is fading away in the country. Rather, there is a lack of good music. These days, people mostly listen to pop music and that is what most artistes gravitate towards. Many people don’t listen to rap music anymore because they don’t have quality options. However, I think it is all about time. Rap music will still come round.”

Jagz also stated that he had never regretted being a rapper. “I have never regretted being a rap artiste or considered doing the more commercial music like you call it,” he said.

Speaking on his current projects, the Murder Dem rapper said, “I have a full body project coming out soon; just watch out. That’s all I can say for now.”

Assessing the music industry, Jesse said, “There is still no structure in the industry. Everybody is just doing their thing. I would really like a situation where artistes get paid royalties for their works accordingly.”

On if his fans should be expecting to hear wedding bells ring anytime soon, Jagz, who is a younger brother to rapper, MI, said, “When the bells ring, I guess everybody would hear about it.”

The rapper added that the most important quality he would consider in his ideal woman is her nationality as a Nigerian. “I really don’t like discussing this topic,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]