Liz Anjorin doesn’t have dirty secrets of GoldmyneTV’s chairman – Associate
Olushola Ricketts

[email protected]

08169745730 (SMS only)

Actress, Liz Anjorin, recently threatened to reveal dirty secrets between her and the Chairman of GoldmyneTV, Otunba Sesan Rufai, after the online platform reported a story about her donation to Baba Suwe that she didn’t like.

In a post on Instagram, Anjorin wrote, “I will put an end to this s**t now and forever. Watch out for the unspeakable and dirty story between us.”

However, when Sunday Scoop reached out to Rufai, he said the issue was too irrelevant for him to pay attention to.

But a close associate of Rufai told Sunday Scoop that Liz Anjorin only wanted attention. The source said, “We only reposted what she shared on social media and she felt offended. She wanted us to seek her permission before sharing the post on our social media platform. Later, our chairman instructed us to bring the post down.”

The associate also challenged her to go public with the dirty things she claimed to have about his boss. He said, “People have been calling the chairman that Anjorin threatened to expose him. She can go ahead; he doesn’t have any skeleton in his cupboard. When the chairman saw her post, he was not disturbed at all. She doesn’t have anything on him or the company; she was just ranting to get the sympathy of the public. The chairman didn’t react to her post because it is not important to him. I am sure that if she greets him tomorrow at a social gathering, he will reply her.”

Explaining what went wrong, the source said, “A young woman attacked her on social media that she was living large when another actor, Baba Suwe, needed help. She then replied that nobody helped when her mother died of stroke. That was what we reposted on our Instagram platform. But despite bringing down the story, she still went on to insult the chairman.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]