Used car I bought my wife inspired my first short film –Rogba Arimoro
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Filmmaker, Rogba Arimoro, has said his short film that recently went viral on social media, was inspired by a used car he had bought for his wife.

According to him, after he bought a car for his wife, he found some things in it that belonged to its former owner, including some coins. This discovery made him wonder about the kind of relationship the former owner of the car had with it.

“I recently bought a tokunbo (used) car for my wife; in the car, we found little things like pencils and coins. I began to wonder, who owned the car before, what was their lifestyle.

“Apart from the fact that I had a friend whose mum died of cancer, the whole idea just came together. Then one night, I decided to write the idea that had been in my head for a while. So I wrote it down and everything just came out in a nice way.

“Normally, shooting a movie involves a lot of planning; you need a camera, the crew and many more. I shared the idea with some people, including my wife, who is a producer. I knew I had to do it immediately to avoid procrastination.

“The only camera available at that time was my phone; there were doubts from others, but at the end of the day it came out almost close to what I had expected. It is my first official movie as I normally shoot documentaries and adverts,” he told Saturday Beats.

Explaining why he shot all the scenes of the movie in the car and how he was able to get his seven-year-old-son to feature in the movie, he said, “It took me about 36 hours to shoot the film; the first day, we shot till night and the next day we shot till noon.

“My son loves movies; he is always going around with his tablet, trying to shoot movies. When I told him about shooting a movie, he was so eager to be part of it.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]