Why I didn’t marry more than one wife – Pa Ojoge
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Nollywood actor, Oluwasesan Adio, also known as Pa Ojoge, has stated that he didn’t marry many wives like some of his colleagues because of the responsibilities that would come with it.

“I have only one wife by the grace of God. Some of my counterparts married more than one wife. I have never thought of marrying another wife because I don’t even have enough money to cater for myself and family adequately. Marrying another wife comes with other responsibilities,” he told Saturday Beats.

Popularly known for his comic roles in movies and soap operas, the actor noted that while some other people may not feel comfortable with being stereotyped as only fit for comic roles, he is satisfied with such roles given to him in movies.

“I am satisfied with my comic roles in movies; it has made me very popular. Some people don’t even know my real name. I was given Pa Ojoge by one of my bosses. I used to be called different names on stage at the time, until my boss changed my name to Ojoge.

“I have played the role of a thug and an educated person in movies before; but all of a sudden, producers started casting me for comic roles. I see it as a divine act. I grew up in a village; nobody stopped me from going into acting. My family members got to know I was an actor when they saw me on TV.

“Things have really changed in the industry; now, nobody is indispensable compared to before. I feature in English and Yoruba movies because I have to fend for my family. I have never thought of leaving the entertainment industry because I feel this is what God made me for. I amuse my wife and children at home a lot. When I asked my wife to marry me, she was happy about marrying a star,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]