I cannot steal to live a fake life – Abiola Adebayo
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Nollywood actress, Abiola Adebayo, popularly known as Biola Eyin Oka, has described the society as unfairly putting so much pressure on celebrities. According to the dark-skinned actress, the society is fond of setting unrealistic standards for celebrities. In an interview with Saturday Beats, Adebayo noted that she would not be pushed to steal or do illegal deals to live a fake life.

“When I started my acting career and became famous, there were so many responsibilities for me, and I couldn’t meet up. People started seeing me as a celebrity and at the time, I didn’t even have the material things to qualify as a celebrity. At some point, I had to ask myself if I really wanted to go into the movie industry fully, bearing in mind that I had other things I was doing alongside.

“The society sets a standard for you the moment you become a celebrity. After ‘Eyin Oka’, the movie that made me famous in 2004, I found it difficult to take public buses. I didn’t even have the money to buy a car at the time so it hit me hard. I even had demands from family members and some of my neighbours; they assumed I had so much money. The pressure the society puts on celebrities is too much, I cannot fake what I am not.

“I bless God because I am not where I used to be, but I am not where I am going to yet. I have responsibilities too, and it is not like I earn as much as people think I do, but I am not poor. Some celebrities do what they are not supposed to do to make ends meet because of the high expectations of the society. Sometimes, when I am on the red carpet, they always ask me what I am wearing. I know they expect me to call the big designers; but in my mind, I always tell myself that I can’t steal to buy all these big brands.

“Sometimes, when they even ask me these questions, I don’t even answer them. Even when they ask me who designed my dress, I simply tell them it is a tailor. Even some politicians steal just to meet up with the expectations of the people,” she told Saturday Beats.

Few years ago, some fans thought Adebayo had left the movie scene for something else, owing to her rare appearances in movies.

She, however, noted that she never left the movie scene at any point. According to her, what makes it appear so is because she is more involved in movie productions than before.

“A lot of people thought I had left the movie scene at a time, but I think it is because I do more jobs now than I used to. At some point, because of my studies I couldn’t fully focus on my acting career.

“When I chose to become an actor, my parents were a bit sceptical because they felt it was too demanding and not profitable. I lost my dad the year I started acting. I grew up in an environment where I had to struggle on my own to make it. My family members didn’t believe I could act because of my shy nature.

“I like challenging roles; I don’t like roles that portray me as a quiet person. I prefer roles that make me put in extra efforts. For example, there is a movie I’m still shooting in which the role I’m playing is really different. My character was very arrogant and harsh so I had to learn how to be rude and arrogant when I talk. I also like baby mama roles because it brings me out of my shell; some of my fans even say I am too quiet in movies,” she said.

She further talked about the secret to her ageless shape, adding that she had not changed the size of her dress in 20 years.

“The secret to my beautiful physique is the fact that I eat healthy and I don’t eat junk food. Sometimes, I get advances from some men who are younger than me but I handle them with wisdom. Some of them would say there is no big deal in dating younger men but I don’t believe in dating someone younger than me.

“I don’t embarrass them; I am happy with the fact that I am appreciated. Above all, I feel it is the proof of God’s grace on my life. In the last 20 years, I have not changed the size of my dress,” she added.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]