I realised I wasn’t growing acting Miss Pepeiye — Bolatito Sowunmi
Kore Ogidan

Background

I am the first child and I had a very comfortable childhood. We were not too rich, neither were we poor. Our parents provided everything we needed. My dad is late and I am very close to my mother. I was born and raised in Lagos.

Education

I attended Federal Government College, Ijanikin, Lagos. When I completed my secondary education, I enrolled for a diploma in Law at the Lagos State University, Ojo, Lagos State.

Acting

I have always had passion for acting right from when I was young. However, acting was not so common then and most parents didn’t readily allow their children to go into acting. Though I belonged to the drama club back then in secondary school, my desire to act was so strong and I knew I had to go beyond that level. While in the university, there was a particular time the Academic Staff Union of Universities embarked on strike. It gave me a lot of time to think about acting. After the strike, I contested the Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria pageant in 2004 but I didn’t win. That competition really built my confidence and after that, I went for a Wale Adenuga Productions’ audition. And the rest is history. However, acting Miss Pepeiye in Papa Ajasco brought me to the limelight. But before that, I had been in a few productions. I acted in an African Magic series titled, Forbidden, and I was also in the television series, Tinsel. Aside that, I played a major role in a movie called, African Queen, alongside Bolanle Ninolowo, Tina Mba and Segun Arinze.

Parent’s reaction

My family was not aware that I was already acting. I didn’t have the courage to tell them that I had become a professional actor. It was after I went for the WAP audition that I told them because I had no other choice.

Miss Pepeiye

I resigned from WAP because I felt that the role was no longer challenging. I had acted the role for a decade and the character, Pepeye, had to wear a lot of costumes and make-up that covered my features. A lot of people know and appreciate my work as Miss Pepeiye and I have a lot of fans but they don’t know how I look. So, I noticed that the character was limiting me and I wasn’t growing. As an actor, you have to evolve. I became so comfortable with being Miss Pepeiye that if you woke me up in the middle of the night, I would play the character without even looking at the script. I had to quit because the industry is highly competitive and people have to see how versatile you are. I didn’t have any quarrel with them; I resigned the proper way and asked for blessings from the chairman, which he gave me.

Veterans

I would love to act alongside all the veterans, such as Joke Silva, Olu Jacobs and the rest of them. I am looking forward to being on set with them.

Challenges

There are really no challenges I cannot surmount because of the passion I have for the job. When you love what you do, you won’t even see the challenge. For me, it has always been about getting better and improving at what I do. Meeting veterans in the industry never intimidated me in any way because we are all unique in our various ways and nobody can act like you. They are just people I can celebrate and learn from.

Promiscuity

It is funny how people compare you with the character that you play on screen. Miss Pepeiye is troublesome and can do anything for money. Some people have the perception that the character they see you play on television and your real life personality are the same. However, I don’t even have a little trace of Miss Pepeiye’s character in me. She is an extrovert and I am a chronic introvert.

Small girl, big God

I don’t know anything about that. I don’t live beyond my means; so, there is no need for me to do such. I have a mind of my own and I don’t get influenced by anything or anyone. I am a very hard-working woman who enjoys the fruits of her labour. I am satisfied with whatever I make. Also, everyone has the right to live however they want. It is their life!

Baby mama

If having a child is the issue, I would have been married by now because I am 37 years old. Having a child outside wedlock doesn’t align with my principles and it is not even what I desire. I am not cut out for that. I want to settle down in marriage the right way.

Aspirations

I wish my dreams will come true. I want to do well in my career and be successful. I also want to continue loving God.

Other interests

I am a model and an entrepreneur. I am also a skincare specialist and lifestyle consultant. I help people look younger than their age.

Relationship status

It is private because it is my personal life. However, I like someone who is focused and intelligent. Also, I like a man who is mature because I am mature.

Fashion

I dress as the occasion demands. However, my dressing is really dependent on how I feel at any particular time.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]