Acting as Ojukwu, toughest role of my career – Gregory Ojefua
Actor, Gregory Ojefua, speaks to JOY MARCUS about his love for the make-believe world

How did your join Nollywood?

I happened to ride on an existing glory from a show called Don’t Forget the Lyrics, where I was the first contestant to attempt the million naira questions, but lost. So, that brought me back to N150,000 and that turned me into a mini celebrity because the organisers added the episode to the show as a trailer. However, I had always nursed the idea of getting on screen but I never really got the opportunity; so, I decided to use the platform and went for the audition. Aside from being recognised as the guy that lost money, I think I impressed the judges at the audition. That was how I got my first role in a television series, Wings of Change. It was produced by Lillian Okoro and directed by Kenneth Ukpai.

When did you have your major break in the industry?

The major break for me was playing the role of General Odumegwu Ojukwu in the movie, Encounter. I also played the wicked boss in Surulere. Then, people got to see the non-funny aspect of me and I guess they realised that I could be very versatile.

Was it tough playing the role of a man like Ojukwu?

That is the most challenging character I’ve played for now because I had to become a real person. It is easier to play a fictional character because all you need to do is look inward and discuss with the director of the movie. When you are playing a real personality, you will have no choice but to actually become that person. So, I had to learn everything I could about him. The way he spoke, moved, mannerisms and facial expressions. It was not just because he was a real person but the fact that he is a significant person in Nigeria’s history. I realised that if I didn’t perform well, it may mar my career because people are very sensitive.

What were some of the challenges you faced in the industry in the first few years?

The first challenge was hopelessness. When you go for auditions back-to-back and you don’t get picked, it has a way of weighing you down. At times, you could go for ten auditions in a week and nothing tangible would come out of it. Then, you start questioning yourself if you are on the right path or not. It was tough asking my parents for money because they had done their best in sending me to school. Also, overcoming stereotype was a very big challenge because everybody loved the chubby, funny guy and they always wanted to cast me in comedy movies. Though I love comedy, I don’t want to be known as that actor who only acts comedy movies. Comedy is easy for me because I am naturally funny but I have always had the dream of being an all-round actor.

Some people believe that there are frequent deaths and marital crises in the movie industry. What is you view on this?

The simple explanation is that we are always in your face and if anything happens to us, you get to hear it firsthand. As we speak, many are dying and many marriages are also collapsing but because they are not in the limelight, we don’t hear or see them. So, this funny perception should stop. We just need support and more love so that we can continue to deliver our best.

Some people say actresses are richer than actors. Is this true?

I wouldn’t say yes or no because our pay is not dependent on our gender but on how marketable the actor is. If you go on social media, you will find that women are more expressive than men. So, even if the men have anything, they will not likely share them because of reasons best known to them. Also, women naturally tend to get support from people. I believe every responsible man created by God will know how to show concern for a woman because they were created to be able to get some kind of favours and support from men without doing anything. For me, I could be going for lunch and see my female colleague sitting down; I will ask her why is she not going for lunch and if she doesn’t have money, I will volunteer to pay for her meal. Women are also very industrious and most times, they are made brand ambassadors.

What were your childhood memories?

Being the first and only son, I had a very close relationship with my dad growing up. We regularly visited amusement parks and I got to play with my cousins. As a child, I wanted to be like my dad at some point because my dad was able to balance being strict and playful at the same time. To me, he was the leader of the lion pride. I also have fond memories about my mum because anytime I was down, I always placed my head on her laps and it made me calm.

What did you study?

I studied Accounting at the University of Benin, Edo State. I also took an online course in Information Technology at the National Institute of Accounting Technicians. Also, I have a degree in Business Administration from the Adekunle Ajasin University, Ondo State.

What is your relationship status?

I am single and I feel cold in the night but I am not searching because I just got out of a relationship. At the moment, I am taking my time. I would say I am single and breathing for now. I want to rest for a while before going into any relationship.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]