Hollywood resurrects in Widows
Tobi Akhanamoya

The movie, Widows, is everything Oceans 8 should have been, but sadly wasn’t. At the expense of coming off as some sort of rabble rouser, I dare say the movie was (and is) a hot mess. How do you under-utilise such a stellar cast that has the likes of Sandra Bullock and freaking Cate Blanchett?

Anyway, let me proceed to review an actual movie and not a minus. There isn’t much need to wax lyrical here. Simply put, Widows is undeniably the best movie of 2018. The fact is that the movie director, Steve Macqueen (12 Years a Slave), has proved to be a tour de force with this thrilling masterpiece.

Set in modern-day Chicago, the movie highlights the features for which the city is famous, with poignant takeaways we would all do well to ponder on. It is also a movie about female empowerment, but, perhaps, not in the way you will expect. It doesn’t scream, “Oh look at me, I’m a movie about female empowerment, women can blow things up too.” No, this is a serious and important drama that doesn’t take itself too seriously.

Widows is what you get when you mix timely political criticism with a stellar cast, a very well developed script and multi-layered characters. It brilliantly straddles your typical swash-buckling action movie mainstays like explosions and cool fight scenes, with Oscar-worthy acting. It’s a thriller, a timely drama and a hell of a heist movie, all rolled in one.

It’s not every day you see Viola Davies, Liam Neeson, Collin Farrell and freaking Robert Duval (the God Father) in the same movie. So, get ready for a movie that will leave you at the edge of your seat, biting your nails and wondering what fascinating turn its going to take next. Nothing is left to chance here.

Every single actor comes to slay. Viola is stunning as usual. Daniel Kaluuya (Black Panther) is amazing. Bryan Tyree Henry (Atlanta) is great. Even Collin Farrael is stunning in his role as a corrupt politician, although I’m not quite sure if he has enough evil left in him to keep up the fight.

Liam Neeson reprises his meme worthy action hero persona in Taken, this time he reminds us that he is an actor worth his weight in salt and Taken is merely his retirement plan.

I am also particularly pleased with the performance of Broadway star and blockbuster movie newbie, Cynthia Erivo. I have known her to be a talented and established musician, winning the 2017 Grammy award in the category, Best Musical Theatre Album. Clearly singing her heart out is just one of her many talents. Well, no spoilers so far and so good that I’d like to keep it that way. I give this movie, which is currently showing in cinemas in Nigeria, a solid 98 per cent. It is that good.

You can take my word for it. I’m a little more than a critic. I’m a cynic and that makes for even better objectivity where things like movie reviewing are concerned. In a time where it seems as though the wellspring of creativity is drying up, this film will have you believing in Hollywood again.

Widows is currently showing in cinemas across Nigeria.

Tobi Akhanamoya sent this review from Lagos

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]