Actors need better human relations – Femi Branch
Olajide Samuel

In the light of the incessant rifts among movie stars on social media, popular actor, Femi Branch, has shared his thoughts on how the feuds can be avoided and resolved.

In a chat with Sunday Scoop, Branch advised his colleagues, “I actually did a post recently concerning that. I was telling people that social media is a crazy tool to handle. The Internet never forgets. That is why one needs to be careful about the things one puts out there. Years from now, somebody somewhere will dig it out. One doesn’t have to take all of one’s conflicts to the Internet. We need to develop better human relations amongst ourselves.

“These days, you could find a husband and wife who are together (in the same house) chatting on WhatsApp, with the wife asking the husband over the phone what he would eat for dinner. Social media is supposed to bring people together, but now, it is driving us apart. If you have problems with a person, call the person directly or reach out to someone that can talk to the individual. One’s next move shouldn’t be to go online and start thrashing the person. Nobody ever wins a social media war, so it’s better you don’t even start it .Even if you felt you got more support from people, you didn’t win.

“Even If people are criticising you, what is it going to cost you not to respond and just ignore It.? If you feel you need to respond, then do it in an official way. Put out a press statement. If you don’t have a management, do it yourself. But make it a formal response.”

On the proliferation of Nigerian movies in cinemas, even substandard ones, the poet and Agun Asa of Edeland said, “There was a time (in the not too distant past) when there was hardly any Nigerian film showing in cinemas, but now, indigenous films are rubbing shoulders with foreign films. I think it is a fantastic development and it can only get better. They are Nigerian cinemas, so there is no problem with them showing Nigerian films. With time, the audience will get to know which ones are better. Everybody cannot be good (in the same way). Let the audience have a choice. I am of the opinion that there can never be too many movies in the cinemas.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]