Saidi Balogun, Rykardo Agbor, Tobi Bakre star in movie on drug abuse
Tofarati Ige

[email protected]

08068792241 (SMS only)

Worried by the spate of drug abuse among youths, especially secondary school students, a non-governmental organisation, Trauma Savers Life Support Foundation is set to premiere a new movie, Scourge, that will ‘address the menace and proffer workable solutions’.

The movie, which features popular actors such as Saidi Balogun, Rykardo Agbor, and Tobi Bakre, was conceived by the convener of TSLSF, Beth Ola, whose team of experts has been going round public secondary schools in Lagos State to educate students about the menace of drug addiction and the danger it portends.

In a chat with Sunday Scoop, Ola stated that the movie would be premiered in cinemas from November. She added, “Scourge will educate teens and youths about the dangers of drug addiction and its link with depression. The consumption of illicit substances by youths has posed serious challenges to the growth and development of the Nigerian society. According to some statistics, over 60 per cent of Nigerian youths have, at one time or the other, taken different types of illicit drugs, and these have made them irresponsible to themselves and society.

“We have visited over 15 public secondary schools in Lagos and we gathered that most of the students got exposed to drugs and alcohol at a tender age, sometimes, even by parents and guardians, who are not conscious of what they do in the presence of their children. With the support of the Lagos State government, more schools will be visited. I have learnt a lot in my interactions with these students and I can tell you that the situation is bigger than what most people think. These days, students love to get high on ridiculous things that one wouldn’t even ordinarily think about. The situation does call for alarm.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]