Encyclopedia of successful marital relationships
Adeyemi Adebiyi

Tolani Salawu, no doubt, must have been driven by her experience as a relationship expert and marriage counselor to examine marital relationship from different perspectives in her book, Successful Marriage and the Commandments.

The book touches every aspect of marriage. The language is simple and fluid, thereby creating a bond between the author and the reader, especially with the constant input or entrenchment of spoken language. One will easily see himself or herself in the classroom reading a well-researched topic — from religious to moral, from ethics to customs, from orthodox to modern, from myths to realities — in aspects of marital affairs.

Tolani sheds light on the Christian and Islamic views of marriage and how adherents to these faiths choose their partners. She expounds that although the modes of worship are different, the freedom to select and the criteria of making that choice, based on character and spiritual uprightness, are the same.

The author goes ahead to tell the reader that most people don’t know what they want in marriage. They are not conscious, she explains, of the fact that in choosing a life partner, one is making a choice about who will be ready to communicate on his/her daily activities, be there in good and bad times, co-parent the children and spend the rest of their lives (work, holiday, retirement) together.

The book discusses exhaustively many external and internal factors that can ruin a relationship.

Many readers will see the 20 tips on how to make a marriage successful as the commandments, but Tolani is not done yet. The author lists the commandments that will surely bring back the passion as witnessed in the early days of a relationship. These include being more touchy-feely, sleeping in same bed, limiting technology[browsing at home], taking a vacation together, saying ‘thank you’, complimentary, incorporate surprises, observing your partner’s passion, creating something together, flirting with each other, walking out together, engaging in pillow talk and being there for each other.

The author devotes a chapter to the importance of sex in marriage with a simple metaphor, by saying that icing is to cupcake what sex is to marriage. This particular chapter on sexual relationship is a must read for couples and singles in order to appreciate that sex is, in most marriages, the very important battery to run the marital vehicle.

Without mincing words, this book is a training ground for all ‘romantic crudes’ who wish to spice up their relationship with the outcomes of a positive and modern approach to sex and related matters.

The book also dwells on infidelity and how to handle the situation when discovered. Tolani goes a step further to teach couples how to rebuild the attendant broken trust in their relationships.

This review is not complete without mentioning the Ten Commandments that Tolani postulated for a successful marriage. It is the summary of the narratives — the practical steps on how to build a happy family and overcome marital challenges. The commandments — Thou shall: show respect, be affectionate, communicate, forgive, be kind, be appreciative, be loyal, find balance, be honest, and make decisions together.

Obeying these Ten Commandments will “keep couples on the path to a lasting and fulfilling marriage”. She concludes that the narrative by saying, “marital bliss if one finds it last longer — a life time treasure than most ephemeral things we chose after with our lives.’’

This book will be a valuable asset to guide young adults in relationships that could culminate in wedlock, young married couples, older married adults to spark their relationships and other categories of adults — divorced, separated — as tools to help play advisory roles to young couples and couples to be. Successful Marriage and the Commandments is a must read for all adults.

The book is ‘beautifully’ delivered, if one overlooks the few typographic errors and arrangement lapses in Page 13, where a continuous sentence is found in two separate paragraphs and partly emboldened. Such minor errors should be corrected in the reprint.

Adebiyi is the current chairman of the Association of Nigerian Authors, Lagos chapter.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]