I’ve only travelled out of Nigeria to Benin Republic – Ibrahim Chatta
Olushola Ricketts

Actor, Ibrahim Chatta, has revealed that unlike many of his colleagues who like to brag about their trips abroad, he has only travelled out of Nigeria to the Republic of Benin.

Chatta told Sunday Scoop, “I have never travelled out of this country except to the Republic of Benin. Most times, I hear that people travel to other developed countries to beg; I don’t want to be like that. Right now, I am working on a movie and I will need to hold the premiere in the UK, America, South African and Dubai. If I eventually go to those places, I know it is for a purpose.

“There are many amazing places I’ve never visited in Nigeria too. I only go to locations from my house and return home afterwards. I’ve been invited to America and Canada for awards, but God has not given me the privilege to visit yet. I have not been to Mecca too, but it is my priority to go before I die and I am not leaving the world soon.”

He admitted that it was a great thing for one to travel but noted that Nigerians needed to love their country. The actor added, “People are always saying Nigeria cannot be good; we should stop saying that. We are not patient and patriotic enough. I have never been to the US but I can tell you nice things about New York and Washington. I saw those things in movies. Films should be avenues to project our country in a positive light but we don’t do that here. I will die in Nigeria because it is my country.”

Urging everyone to play a role to make Nigeria a better place, Chatta said, “Fifty per cent of my income goes to people, though I’m still a poor man. I work every day to survive. If I go to the bank, the staff members and people in the queue always want to favour me but I wait for my turn. I am tired of hearing people saying terrible things about Nigeria. I know many of my colleagues who are supporting one party or the other because of what they stand to gain but the love of the country should come first.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]