My sickness has brought me closer to God –Lord of Ajasa
Tofarati Ige

Many Nigerians were worried when it was reported that indigenous rapper, Lord of Ajasa, was sick and in need of urgent medical attention. The Le Fenu So rapper was diagnosed with peptic ulcer and he told Sunday Scoop some weeks ago from his hospital bed that his condition got so bad that he didn’t even know whether he was still alive or dead.

However, following up on his progress, Sunday Scoop put a call through to the rapper and he was in high spirits, even as he stated that he was due for surgery in some weeks. He said, “I thank God that I am better now. I have been discharged but I still go to LUTH as an outpatient for some treatments. However, I will be undergoing surgery in some weeks’ time and I want everybody, who loves me, to pray for me.

“There were gall stones in my gall bladder; so, I cannot eat much for now and I have to be careful of what I ingest.”

Advising his colleagues to pay attention to their health based on his experience, Ajasa said, “Entertainers should be serious about their health; they shouldn’t joke with it because what happened to me can happen to anybody. We all go out to hustle every day and sometimes, forget to take care of ourselves. We are often majorly concerned about our fans and neglect our health.”

The rapper also thanked everyone who rallied around him to ensure that he got quality medical attention. “Everybody that assisted me did so by the grace of God. Even people I didn’t know reached out to me and I am thankful to God. God may lay it in someone’s heart to help, but the person also has to release himself to be used for that purpose. I am grateful to God.

“There are things that one expects, but if it doesn’t happen that way, it doesn’t mean that God cannot raise help in other ways. I don’t want to dwell too much on this topic; all I know is that I am grateful to the almighty and those who offered assistance,” he said.

Ajasa also confessed that the ugly episode has brought him closer to God. He said, “My fans should be expecting a song from me because I have a lot to talk about. This sickness was a reality check for me. I have noticed that these days, everybody just talks about money; nobody thinks about their well-being.

READ ALSO: Why I declined being running mate to Abia gov candidate, says Ruggedman

“Good health is more important than money; and being in the hospital really made that fact to sink in for me. You may have money but if you are not in good health, how would you spend it? Money without health is nothing. There were so many people that died in the same ward I was in at the hospital despite all the money they spent. This incident has made me to move closer to God and I thank Him for giving me a second chance.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]