Govt has ignored filmmakers’ pleas to stop pirates –Aderupoko
Tofarati Ige

Popular actor, Kayode Olaiya, aka Aderupoko, has definitely come a long way in the industry. From the days when the movie business was seen as a venture for unserious people and never-do-wells, to now when it commands more respect, Aderupoko has seen it all. However, the actor believes that there is still a long way to go in the industry as regards remuneration of actors. Olaiya admitted that though the entertainment industry had grown in leaps and bounds, musicians had better prospects than actors.

He told Sunday Scoop, “For most of my life, I have been in the movie industry and it is something I am very passionate about. Truly, this job has opened a lot of doors for me but the pay still isn’t good enough. And one of the reasons for this is piracy because if producers have no guarantee of making profit on their investments, they wouldn’t pay actors well. This has been an issue for so long and we have pleaded with the government but there has been no significant improvement. “Right now, there is so much attention on the entertainment industry in Nigeria and I am happy about that but the truth is that musicians fare better than us. Apart from selling their CDs, they are also invited for concerts and other engagements. They are paid handsomely to perform and people even spray them money while on stage.

“Ordinarily, filmmakers should be living like royalty but we are at the mercy of pirates and that’s not good at all. It is very disheartening. People like us have invested so much in the industry and it is only fair for us to expect something in return, but some people just sit down somewhere and wickedly reap the fruits of our labour.”

Recalling how he got into the industry, Aderupoko said, “I started acting while I was in primary school; so, you can see what I mean when I say I have been doing this all my life. In those days, we were propelled by the passion we had for the job, and not the pecuniary gains attached to it. I will advise the younger generation to be focused, committed and hard working. If they set their sights on money, they might miss it. But if they are truly dedicated to what they do, good things will follow because there is a lot of goodwill that comes with being an actor.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]