Actors, producers need to embrace collaboration to improve quality –Elvis Chucks
Tofarati Ige

Actor and producer, Elvis Chucks, believes that Nollywood can grow bigger than its present level if only stakeholders in the industry are united. In a chat with Sunday Scoop, he said, “In the industry, people have been struggling on their own. The main issue we have is that everybody sees this as a competition; they are not seeing it as an industry we have to put our hands together and build. Everybody wants to be heard and outshine the other person; the team spirit is not there.

“The industry has come a long way and there are people who have made a lot of sacrifices for it to get to where it is today. If we can remember the aims of these individuals who made those sacrifices and carried everybody along, we should be able to work around our differences.

“My good friend, Akin Omotoso, with about six other people, produced the movie, Vaya, and it competed with my movie, All About Love, which eventually won the AMVCA for Best Movie. Another movie, Happiness is a Four Letter Word, was made by three producers. These people put funds together and united to put out something worthwhile. That is the way to go. But there are some producers that even if you want to assist them, they get unnecessarily suspicious and hostile.”

Speaking on his current projects, Elvis said, “I am working on a movie at the moment titled, Fake Liars. It is a comedy movie which stars Nkem Owoh, Broda Shaggi, Charles Okocha, Cee C, Afeez Oyetoro, Nedu, and a host of others. I am also working on the post-production phase of the movie, American Dream, I shot in America with popular comedian, Michael Blackson, Enyinna Nwigwe, Bolanle Ninalowo, and some American actors. I spent the whole of last year in the US working on the movie. The crew I worked with were from Hollywood and it was a different experience, compared to what we have here. I feel it is something to be proud of and grateful for because it is not every project that takes you far away. There was a lot of money and time invested in that movie.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]