CORA/Arterial Network Nigeria mourns Bisi Silva
Chux Ohai

The Committee for Relevant Art/Arterial Network Nigeria has announced the passing away of one of its honorary members, Olabisi Silva, on Tuesday, February 12 in Lagos after a protracted illness that kept her off the art scene for several months at a stretch.

CORA/ANN, in a statement made available to our correspondent, said that Silva was an independent curator and founder/director of the Lagos-based Centre for Contemporary Art, who contributed to the implementation of the Arterial Network Cultural Management Programme as one of the key resource persons and mentors.

The statement also said that until her death, Silva was the curator of Asiko, the pan-African roaming alternative art school, and co-curated The Progress of Love, a transcontinental collaboration between the Menil Collection and the Pulitzer Foundation for the Arts, both in the United States, as well as J.D. ‘Okhai Ojeikere: Moments of Beauty at the Kiasma Museum of Contemporary Art in Helsinki.

The statement read in part, “She was the Artistic Director of the 10th Bamako Encounters, African Biennial of Photography in Mali, Co-Curator of the 2nd Thessaloniki Biennale of Contemporary Art in Greece and Co-Curator of the 7th Dak’Art: African Contemporary Art Biennial.

“A frequent participant in international conferences and symposia, Bisi had published in journals and art magazines, including Artforum, Third Text, The Exhibitionist and Art South Africa. Silva sat on the editorial/advisory boards of Art South Africa, N.Paradoxa: International Feminist Art Journal, and Contemporary Art.

“She was a member of the international jury for the Pinchuk Art Centre’s Future Generation Art Prize in 2014), as well as the 55th Venice Biennale in 2013. She was curator for Marker, West Africa at Art Dubai in 2013 and has been a member of the jury for the BMW Prize at Art Basel and the selection committee for Art Dubai.

“The Steering Committee of CORA/Arterial Network Nigeria commiserates with the Silva family, the Nigerian, African and international visual arts community for this painful loss.

‘’Life is a journey, but the destinations we end up with is ours to choose. Life can be a long road that may scare us but we must learn to put out positive voices as we travel that road. Here is an honored tribute to a life that chose a crowning destination and spoke life changing words to many-a-life as she traveled through our world. May her shadow never grow dim and may her soul retain the radiant beauty of a true humanist for all eternity.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]