I’d be worried if men don’t make passes at me -Uche Elendu
Tofarati Ige

Actress, Uche Elendu, may be a mother but she still effortlessly leaves men drooling over her beauty. The single mother told Sunday Scoop that she was not in want of male attention and is willing to give marriage another try.

She said, “Of course, I am a very beautiful woman and I should get passes. If nobody makes a pass at me, then I’d be worried. But as a Christian, I do things right. I am mature enough to control things and make the right decisions.

“I am definitely willing to give marriage another shot. From my first marriage, I learnt not to be in a hurry to do anything. Don’t be in a haste to jump into marriage; you should really take your time to make sure that you’re with the right person and you’re both compatible. I got married to a very wonderful man but I guess we were not compatible. Don’t just get married because everybody else is doing that, or based on a person’s good looks and money.

“Marriage is not friendship or courtship; it is a serious business. You also have to pray about it and that’s one of the mistakes I made because I didn’t pray about my marriage. When problems arise in your marriage, you should be able to endure. I guess I was always too quick to act. Give God a chance in your marriage.”

Elendu also revealed that she had plans to delve into politics in the near future. “Definitely, participating in politics is on my agenda and I am working towards it. I want to serve my people. I am young and vibrant, and I have a lot to offer.

“When the time comes, I will let you know in what capacity I will like to serve, but for now, I’m still working on myself and praying. My faith should not affect the call to serve because in the real sense, politics shouldn’t be a dirty game, though it has turned out to be that way in Nigeria. However, some people stand out and make a difference, and I want to be one of such people. As a child of God, I should serve my people and lead them aright,” she said.

READ ALSO: My sickness has brought me closer to God –Lord of Ajasa

Baring her mind on entertainers who campaign for politicians, Uche said, “I can only speak for myself. Most of the entertainers are just protecting their personal interests. Everybody has a right to support whichever candidate he or she would benefit from, and I think that’s what they’re doing. You know politicians like promising a lot; we just hope that they would also support us when the time comes. But most times, they get into office and ‘dump’ us. I don’t see anything wrong in supporting a particular candidate though I’m not part of it.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]