Don’t take anything I flaunt on social media seriously — Sharon Ooja
Background

I’m from Benue State, but was born in Kaduna State and grew up in Jos, Plateau State. I grew up in a family of four girls and my parents are still happily married. As a child, I was very stubborn. My childhood was fantastic because my sisters and I were very close and we still are. We played so much and also shared emotions.

Education

I attended Kings and Queens School, Jos, for my primary education. For my secondary education, I attended two all-girls schools – Regina Pacis Secondary School, Garki II, Abuja, and St. Louis Girls’ College, Jos. Both were boarding schools and I enjoyed my time in them. I graduated with a degree in Mass Communication from Houdegbe North American University in Cotonou, Benin Republic.

Career

I believe that God wanted this path for me because I honestly bumped into acting. I was at a photo session for a store and NdaniTV was covering the behind-the-scenes activities of the shoot. I was invited for an interview the next week for a television show that didn’t eventually happen. Shortly after, they called me to play in a small role in the television series, Gidi Up. Then, I featured in Skinny Girl in Transit, where I played the character, Shalewa. I’ve grown in my acting and I’m very passionate about the craft, so much that I wouldn’t trade it for anything in the world.

Parents’ reaction

They were very supportive, especially because my mum is in the entertainment industry. My dad even records my TV interviews and calls to applaud me. He watches my shows and tells his friends about them. I’m sure I’m doing as well as I am because of how strong the support system is from my family. My mum gives me tips and advises me on things concerning acting and the industry in general. I run my lines and rehearse my roles with her.

Acting

My journey in the industry has been very fantastic and it has taught me very useful lessons that have helped me through my career. I didn’t know what to expect when I first got into acting but it was definitely a nice experience. The first time I was on set, it was very easy for me because I wasn’t putting too much thought in it. I was just gliding through and because I’m playful by nature, I kept playing and having fun doing the job. The set was interesting and there were many well-known actors on location as well; so, that made it more fun.

Breakthrough

The web series, Skinny Girl in Transit, definitely put me in the limelight but I recently acted a movie produced by Ebonylife titled Oloture, where I played the lead. It will be released this year and I define that role as my breakthrough character because it’s very different from anything I’ve ever done. I wasn’t stereotyped and that’s good for me as an actor because since SGIT, people have been stereotyping me to be only one type of character when I have so much more to offer.

Skinny Girl in Transit

This show helped me so much because it brought me to the limelight. I am eternally grateful to NdaniTV for picking me to play the role. Also, I’ve become like family with everyone on set. I’m not sure I’d be who I am today without Skinny Girl in Transit.

Roles

Asides SGIT where I played Shalewa, I portrayed Amaka in Kemi Adetiba’s King of Boys. I played a school teacher in Omoni Oboli’s Mums at War. I also acted in Lara and the Beat, From Lagos with Love, and television series such as Funke Akindele’s Jenifa’s Diary and Africa Magic’s Flatmates. I can’t remember all the movies I have acted in but I had a very busy year in 2018.

Role models

My mother is my biggest role model because I have watched her transition from being my mum to being a friend. I also love Gabrielle Union, Keira Knightley, Shaffy Bello, Funke Kuti, Ngozi Nwosu, Mo Abudu, Funke Akindele, among others.

Other interests

I love hair and will definitely go into the hair business because I have good knowledge of it. I intend to launch a fashion line as well. I am very passionate about the girl child and would like to start a skill acquisition programme, such as a short summer camp for young girls. It’d be nice for them to gain knowledge, further their education and grow their business.

Attention

Attention from men comes with the territory; so, I’m learning to deal with it in the most reasonable way possible. You should not be rude or aggressive to every guy that comes your way. What if you will work together in the future or they have good business proposals for you? One has to handle everything with wisdom and I try to apply as much subtlety as I can. I try not to be disrespectful or come across as proud. I am always polite but I always draw a line with them.

Relationship

Timini Egbuson is my colleague and friend; he is a fantastic guy. We have never been intimate. Ice Prince is also a colleague and an equally nice man. We are not dating and have no romantic ties at all. We only worked together on an advert for a brand of noodles, and that’s that. I am very secretive about my relationship because I don’t like my private life been in the public domain. Don’t believe everything you see on social media. As a matter of fact, don’t take whatever you see me flaunt on social media seriously because I don’t put what’s going on in my life out there for people to know. Till I get married, I won’t publicise my relationship.

Hobbies

I love listening to music, dancing and reading books. I also love make-up and styling my hair; it’s actually therapeutic for me. I love watching television and seeing other actors. It helps me to learn better and faster about my craft. Finally, I love food. Eating is one of my favourite pastimes.

Fashion

My style can definitely be described as sexy-chic. I don’t overdo it when I dress; although some days, I know I do go overboard. Most times, however, I keep it simple and clean.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]