Working as cab driver redefined my life –Ex-Project Fame winner, Olawale Ojo
Olushola Ricketts

Last year, it was reported that a former Project Fame winner, Olawale Ojo, had become a cab driver to support his music when things became tough for him.

In a chat with Sunday Scoop, Olawale admitted that his family members were not happy with that decision. He stated, “I could have sold my car and used the money for something else. My family members didn’t approve of my decision to become a cab driver. But I needed to go through that process and I wasn’t interested in what anyone thought about me. Everyone has things they are hiding but my life is an open book.”

The singer stated that though he had stopped working as a cab driver, he didn’t regret the decision he took at the time. He said, “If we don’t celebrate people who do legitimate jobs, we will keep promoting fraudulent activities and crimes. When you look down on cab drivers, it can push them into committing crimes for survival. I could recall an instance when a lady ridiculed me because she wanted to pay a certain amount. Of course, she didn’t know who I was. I have been able to work on my mind and I don’t allow certain things affect me.

“I am not a cab driver anymore, but I don’t see anything wrong in it. People made it look like I was doing a terrible thing. I was just going through a difficult time; life is about ups and downs. That is why most people don’t speak out whenever they are troubled. I had to go through that process to redefine my life and it gave me a better perspective about life. Things are better for me now and I thank God.”

Olawale said in spite of the harsh living condition in Nigeria, relocating to a foreign country was not an option for him. He said, “Everyone cannot travel out of the country. People have advised me to leave the country but I cannot stand cold weather. If I travel to an European country, it will be just for business. I have never wished to relocate.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]