I received about 50 messages from ladies after my divorce prank – Seyi Law
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Popular comedian, Seyi Law, recently uploaded a sarcastic statement that insinuated he and his wife had gone their separate ways. But a telephone interview with Saturday Beats, the celebrity said after the prank, ladies, about 50 of them, did not wait for the dust to settle before wooing him with text messages.

His message on Instagram had read, “Due to irreconcilable differences would have been enough to announce this, but the kind and beautiful heart of my ex-wife must be stated. She is one of the best women I have ever known. It is however sad, that I announce that my wife and I have decided to part ways for good. We will appreciate your love and support at this time. God bless you. Tiwaloluwa is safe and good.”

This post literally set the social media on fire with fans curious to know the reason behind the development. Seyi Law, however, told one of our correspondents that he was on the plane when the inspiration to play the prank came to him.

“I was going to the UK to visit my wife and promote my show as well. While I was on the plane, I just had that weird idea. I was curious about what people’s reaction would be if they heard that Seyi Law was no longer married. I knew that if I was going to test it, I had to be sarcastic and witty about it.

“That was why I put some words in a way that people would not pay attention to (what I was doing). Apparently, they didn’t pay attention to the details; I tried to play with words in that post. Interestingly, the incident showed me that people love and appreciate my family; I also learnt that bad news travels faster (than good news).

“I thank God for a good and understanding wife; I didn’t take permission from her before playing that prank. When she saw it, she couldn’t reach me because I was still on the plane. People had been calling her repeatedly. Also, when I landed, my phone rang repeatedly. I called her to explain things to her immediately we saw each other.

READ ALSO: My wife warned me not to marry another woman – Ijebu

“She said I should have carried her along because she didn’t know what to tell people when they called her. My wife is my number one critic; that is the beautiful thing about my marriage,” he said.

He further stated that his social media page had a lot of traffic after the prank.

“I had over 80,000 hits on my Instagram page that day; my followers grew by over 3,000 within 24 hours. I had over 50 ladies hitting on me with direct messages; that’s to tell you how mad the world can be. I don’t want to talk about what the ladies were saying for now,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]