Ayefele, Edochie, Alabi, Odule, others talk politics
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Today, Nigerians decide who to occupy some elective positions as they go out to cast their votes. Saturday Beats asks some celebrities what they expect from their fans and politicians.

Nigerians should not be intimidated

Yinka Ayefele

I expect free and fair elections. I implore Nigerians to obey law and order and go out to perform their civil right by voting for the candidates of their choice. They should not feel intimidated and they should stay away from any form of violence.

Youths must avoid being used as political thugs

Dele Odule

I expect very credible elections; I implore Nigerians to vote for candidates of their choice. I advise youths to avoid being used as political thugs; they shouldn’t sell their votes and conscience. Politicians don’t use their children during campaigns because they know the risks involved.

Nigerians should pray for good leaders

Tope Alabi

I expect people to go to the polling booths, cast their votes and go home. When they get home, they should begin to pray and beg God to make men after his heart win the elective positions so that citizens would enjoy the goodness of the country. They should say no to violence. I would also expect that my friends and fans would vote for the people that they desire and they should not cast their votes based on what people have told them or because of the money they might have received. Politicians should look unto the Lord and accept the outcome of the elections whether it favours them or not.

The best candidates should win

Yomi Fash-Lanso

I pray the best candidates win; I pray for free and fair elections that would be devoid of violence.

Nigerians should consider how they have fared

Eedris Abdulkareem

My sincere appeal to all undecided Nigerian voters is that they should reflect on their lives and consider how they have fared under this administration and compare and contrast that with their lives under the previous administrations.

I want them to sincerely evaluate all these and check whether they are appreciating in value or depreciating. With this, they would be able to make informed and intelligent decisions. We need to get Nigeria back on its feet again.

My candid opinion is that the present administration has failed us all. Nigerians are under a heavy yoke right now, with the current pitiable state of affairs in Nigeria, and the fact that my people, my family, my friends, and my fans are all enmeshed in the suffering, bad governance and nonchalant ‘you can go to hell disposition of the current administration’. I’ll tell you for free that this is the easiest choice to make.

Youths should come out and vote

Yul Edochie

I expect the next administration to fix the country, fix the economy, provide jobs, and make things right for everyone to benefit irrespective of tribe, class or religion. I expect the young ones to come out and vote.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]