I may not have my legs, but I’ve my brain, hands – Usman
Mohammed Usman became partially paralysed after an accident in 2016. In this interview with ERIC DUMO, Usman shares his success story, struggles and how he has coped with his condition

At what stage in your life did this happen to you?

I was involved in an accident on December 25, 2016 around Gombe and this made me partially paralysed. I stayed at home for 15 months before being taken to hospital. After the accident, I was taken back home as I am from a poor background and they couldn’t afford the hospital bills. We had to wait to get donations from my relatives and friends before I could get medical treatment. On March 28, 2017, I had my first surgery; however, I have had two surgeries. Before the surgery, I couldn’t sit or move. The only thing I did was to lie on the bed and whenever I needed to move, there were usually two people who would assist me. After the surgery, I began to move; I could sit on my own. I am able to stand for at least an hour and 30 minutes. For now I can move in my wheelchair to anywhere I want to be on my own without the help of anyone.

What were you going to do in Gombe when this happened?

I was visiting a relative there. I usually go there every December.

Where were the surgeries done?

I had my two surgeries in New Delhi, India. The two surgeries were done on the same day.

How were you able to raise the funds?

A lot of people came to my aid, they knew I had to undergo this operation and were willing to assist me. I got donations from family, friends and other people. I also had an apartment which I sold to raise some money; it was sold for N1.5m.

Before the accident, what were you doing for a living?

I was working at the American University of Nigeria before the incident; I worked as a computer laboratory attendant. After I got involved in the accident, the wife of the former Vice President of Nigeria gave me N500,000, which I added to the funds I was able to get from other people and the sale of my house.

Did this incident affect your job?

I do not have a job anymore; after my accident, my office only paid me for the next three months and after the third month, they left me alone. After I came back from the hospital, I was at home. I could not even go to see my physiotherapist because I couldn’t afford the bill. I began to think of my life and what I could do to earn a living. I didn’t want to be a burden on anyone so I decided to create something on my own. One day I wanted to have my bath and I didn’t want to bathe with cold water, so I decided to create a gas heater and I did it. Suddenly I said to myself ‘if I can do this for myself, then I can do it for commercial purpose’. I ventured into it and did it in a way that the heat can be controlled.

For this heater that you are producing yourself, did you acquire any sort of training to learn how to make it?

No, I never got any kind of training. I just thought about it; it wasn’t even planned. I was thinking of how to make the water hot and the whole idea came to my head. I tried it and realised that it worked perfectly.

Did you have any knowledge of electrical engineering?

I didn’t have the knowledge; even when I worked as computer laboratory attendant, I only had a computer training certificate which I used in getting the job. Also, I am a graduate of Federal Polytechnic, Yola, Adamawa State and I studied Islamic Studies. I have no knowledge about electricity, so producing a heater was just a spontaneous idea that came to me naturally without any form of training or any special skills and I am good at what I do now.

Were you not afraid that without any formal training in such, you could harm yourself?

When I started doing it, I had a friend who studied electrical engineering in the university so I called him so that he could guide me. I usually asked him questions and he would put me through.

After you produced this heater, what was the reaction like from people around you?

When I started, I sold only to people in my area. I asked two of my brothers to take them to people’s homes to show them if they would be interested in buying them. Also, one of them put up a banner with my phone number on it for people to contact me if they needed the product. Soon, I began to get requests. Initially, I didn’t have enough money to meet up with demands and orders, so when people ordered for more than five heaters, I would ask them if they could make a deposit. When the deposits were made, I would use the money to purchase the materials needed. Those who were really interested would pay me while some others wouldn’t want to make any deposit. I get many orders now, not only in my area but even across other states. For instance, I deliver my products to Lagos, Ibadan, Kaduna and Sokoto.

How do you get your products across to your customers?

I usually take the products to the bus park here in Yola and explain to them, we negotiate on the prices and such prices would depend on the quantity of the goods I need to transport to other states.

How much do you produce one?

I sell one for N3,000 only and it heats water in 15-20minutes. It is also durable, but then it depends on how you manage it because you have to remember that it is a plastic bucket. And if the heater touches the bucket, it will cause it to melt and it will leak water.

In the course of doing this work, have people tried to discourage you?

Well, the only time I was discouraged was when a friend posted something on Facebook that was not nice. I was about to react to the post, but then, I thought I should let it go and not allow it to bother me. The funny thing is that since I had the accident, he has not come to check up on me.

Do you have people who work with you or you do this alone?

Two of my brothers assist me; one of them is seven years old while the other is 11 years old. After they return from school, they usually assist me in the production of the heater. Apart from them, no one else assists me because it’s a new business which I just started. I have only done it for about two months.

What kind of education did you have?

I had my primary and secondary school education in a nomadic school here in Yola. I am from the village, and I am Fulani. I later proceeded to the Federal College of Education where I studied Primary Education and Islamic Studies. After that, I got a job at the American University of Nigeria where I worked for five years before the accident. I wanted to still get university education, but they said I couldn’t go to school while working for them because it would affect my duty at work. I didn’t want to lose the job so I opted for a Distance Learning Programme at Modibbo Adama University of Technology, Yola. Before the accident, I was in my final year. I am studying Educational Management and Planning.

Did this accident disrupt your education?

I wanted to be a lecturer before this accident because most of the people in my village do not have formal education. I thought I would become a teacher to promote education in my community. But the accident affected me and I had to stop going to school. However, I still intend to return to school. I am able to sit and move now, so I know that I am fit to return to school. But the condition put in place was that I had to register before I would be able to defer my programme, but I didn’t agree because of the money. I didn’t have money to go to hospital so how would I be able to pay for my deferment? But my Head of Department told me not to pay the registration fee and that whenever I was ready to resume, I should come to him. He said he would sort things out.

How much do you need now to register you to school?

The registration fee is N72,000, but I do not know if I would pay for the year that I didn’t defer or not. But I have not been able to find out because they were on strike.

So far, do you get enough money to keep yourself and the business going?

I am able to make about 10 to 20 of my products. If the demand is more than that, I would not be able to fund it except they make deposits.

What was life like growing up in your community in those early days?

We are from the village; I am the first child to go to school in my family. A lot of people even discouraged my father from sending me to school. Even after my accident, people told my father that most people with the condition I had used to die. They said he should not bother wasting his money on taking me to the hospital. There are lots of discouragements from people and sadly these people are my relatives; that was why I decided to sell my own house to raise money for hospital bills. I also sought help from my friends who put it up on social media to get donations from people.

Are you married?

No, I am not. Before the accident, I was planning to get married. I had an accident in December and I had planned to get married by April of the following year.

Are you still with your fiancée?

No, we are not together; she got married to someone else because of my accident. Although it wasn’t her will, her family members asked her to do that. Her parents felt I might not recover from the crisis, so they returned what I had paid as bride price to me.

Look back, how does this accident make you feel?

Everything is destined by God; this means that it was bound to happen. No matter how hard I think or cry about it, it doesn’t mean anything would change, so I have learnt to deal with it and move on with my life. I know that everything is happening for a reason as it has been written by God.

What would you say is the biggest lesson that this condition has taught you?

If you want to achieve anything in life; irrespective of whatever situation you find yourself in, you still have a chance to make it. Even though I do not have my legs, I still have my brain and my hands which I can use to do something. At least there are other people like me in other countries who can still go to work. So if I don’t have the opportunity to go to work, I can make something out of my condition.

What has the experience been like finding love again?

In this life, there are different kinds of people. I have different ladies who come around to assist me because of my condition but I tell them that I have gone through a situation before where the parents of the lady I wanted to marry asked her to marry someone else because of my condition. So, I ask them, ‘If you want us to be together, how will your parents take it? Will they accept me or not?’ So I am trying to avoid all that for now. I am trying to concentrate on my life right now more than any other thing.

Do you still have hope that one day you will stand on your feet and walk again?

By God’s grace, I know that I will. I have trust in God and I have never given up on life. After all, God created me, so if He wants me to walk on my own again, He will do it and if He doesn’t do it, I will still thank God because I still have my other body parts.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]