ANF appoints MBGN Tourism as brand ambassador
The All Nigerian Festival has officially appointed Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria Tourism, Danielle Jatto, as its first-ever brand ambassador as momentum gathers for the second edition of the annual event.

Announcing this during an event held recently at the Nike Art Gallery in Lagos, the organisers of the annual festival said they had chosen to pitch their tent with a young lady who aligned with the brand.

The Founder of the ANF and CEO of Groove Tyme Entertainment, Mr. Kupa Victory, described the proposed alliance as a collaboration designed to succeed, as both parties shared the same goals, such as contributing meaningfully to the Federal Government’s objectives of increased GDP growth, sustainable job creation, redistribution and transformation.

According to Mr. Kupa Victory, since its maiden edition in 2018, the ANF is making great strides in celebrating and marketing through experiences, the unique, warm and beautiful country called Nigeria, not just to her people but also to the world. Organisers have also disclosed that following the official unveiling of the brand amabassador, members of the ANF and the new brand ambassador would hit the ground running with a nationwide sensitisation and courtesy visit tour to stakeholders, heads of ministries and the government to garner support and participation for the 2019 edition of the festival billed for April 2019, to be hosted by one of the 36 states of the federation.

In her reaction, an excited Jatto described the appointment as “an honour and the beginning of greater things to come”. She also pledged to use her new position to promote the country internationally, be it for leisure, business or events tourism, and ultimately change the narrative about Nigeria.

Notable figures at the event included Senior Advocate of Nigeria and Chairman, All Nigerian Festival Board of Directors, Femi Falana; founder of the Nike Art Gallery, Mrs Nike Okundaye; iconic Nigerian artist, Bruce Onokbrakpeya; Nneka and Isaac Moses of Goge Africa and renowned fashion designer, Adebayo Adegbe, a.k.a Modela, among others.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]