I make meaningful music to draw attention –Ojay
Tofarati Ige

A budding singer, Olumuyiwa Ojo, aka Ojay, has devised a strategy to launch himself to the limelight. According to him, he always puts out unique content to court attention. He said, “In order to make my voice heard, I have devised a means of releasing more good music with meaningful and unique content. I also promote them as effectively as the other types of songs.”

Speaking on his repertoire, the singer said, “I’ve written a couple of songs but I will mention two, Take Over and Jo Nibi – that are special to me. Take Over was inspired by the thought of how to get to the top in the industry. On the other hand, Jo Nibi was written to encourage and motivate people to dance away their pains and sorrows. It urges people to dance no matter the situation.”

The singer also revealed that he was back in the studio. “I’m currently working on a song titled, Bless Me, which I had done before. But I decided to correct some things in it since it’s one of my favourite songs. I’m also working on a love song titled, Baby Boo,” he stated.

Ojay, who said he was inspired by his environment, spoke on some of the challenges he had faced over the years. He said, “Firstly, getting the right people with the same vision as mine to work with was so difficult. Currently, the financial aspect is another serious issue, especially when you consider the cost of making videos and promotion.

“I strongly believe that the music industry is really challenging, particularly because of the high level of competition and expectations. However, this is also not different from our everyday life challenges. Hurdles like that make the industry healthier because it leads to growth. Without problems, there won’t be any need for solutions or ideas that have led to the birth of great innovations over the years.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]