I apologise first to my husband –Tope Alabi
Olushola Ricketts

Despite her stardom, Tope Alabi respects the sanctity of her marriage and the need to always stay humble.

The top gospel singer, who is holding another edition of her annual concert, Praise the Almighty, today, said she didn’t always wait for her husband, Soji, to apologise first whenever they had issues. She stated, “Whenever there are issues, it is either I apologise first or my husband does. I apologise more than him because I don’t want little things to become huge. But if he realises that he needs to apologise first, he doesn’t hesitate to do that. We don’t even sleep without settling our differences, and I am being honest about this. God called me to work for Him and He has made me to have a good home also. I cannot do anything by myself alone.”

She also stated she still cooked for her husband. “I work with my husband; so, it makes things easier for me. We are always together. When we need to be at home, I cook and he enjoys my cooking. No doubt, I am a very busy person and he is too,” she said.

The Yes and Amen singer added that winning more souls for God and establishing a music school are things that are high on her priority list. “I really want to have a music school where I can impart unto younger ones the gift God gave me. I know things will get better for the gospel music industry as God is not done with us,” she said.

Admitting that singing in her local dialect had put some limitations on her music, Alabi said it was God’s gift to her and she could do nothing about it. She stated, “I want to gain more grounds for God. I have been trying to adjust because some people don’t understand Yoruba. Also, you know my Yoruba language is deep. But I cannot stop singing in my dialect because that is the gift God gave me. Most of my songs are subtitled for others to understand.”

Ministers expected at Alabi’s concert include Mike Abdul, Bukola Bekes, Erujeje and Pastor Ituah Ighodalo, among others.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]