I took a break from acting to learn about sex –Seyi Hunter
Tofarati Ige

Actress and Vlogger, Seyi Hunter, has said she took a break from the movie industry because she wanted to learn more about sex. She told Sunday Scoop, “I took a break from my movie career last year to learn more about sex education and therapy. I did some courses on Sex Education and Human Sexuality to make me a certified sex educator. However, I just produced a movie titled, The Return. I’m also currently working on another production and I have scripts lined up from other filmmakers. So, it’s already a busy year.”

Explaining why she decided to focus on sex in her vlog, Hunter said, “When I started my vlog, Sinful Friday, I realised that it was a welcome idea. It felt like Nigerians and the rest of the world had been waiting for me. People are in need of someone to teach them sexual skills and pleasure. I’m good at it and I’m an expert in the game. So, I decided to focus on everything that has to do with sex.”

Maintaining that she is not wayward as many are wont to think, Seyi said, “I’m not a promiscuous person. I used to be a one-man kind of girl, and I have been celibate for over a year, but that is changing this month. That I talk about sex and teach sexual skills doesn’t mean I sleep around. People need to understand that.”

Narrating some of her weirdest sexual experiences, Hunter said, “I’ve had lots of crazy sexual experiences but I’ll tell you three. I’ve had sex in a club filled with people on a Friday night. I just sat on him like I was dancing. I also did it in an elevator somewhere in Ikoyi. And the third one was on a tenth floor balcony somewhere on Adeola Odeku Street, Victoria Island, at about 6pm. It was rush hour and everywhere was busy but we continued anyway.”

READ ALSO: Destiny helpers buying cars, houses for actresses –Grace Ama

Hunter, who is also the founder of a beauty pageant company, Miss Bikini Nigeria, refuted reports that such competitions encourage prostitution. She said, “I will speak for myself. Miss Bikini Nigeria doesn’t promote prostitution. We don’t tolerate nonsense. We are the only pageant in Nigeria that sends people abroad regularly. Our girls are well behaved; they don’t do that, and we don’t encourage and promote such.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]