Why I’m not so popular after doing music for 25 years – Ehiliz
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

While some people may believe that spending years in the entertainment industry is a guarantee to attaining fame, the story of gospel artiste, Elizabeth Ehigiamusoe, is different.

Popularly called Ehiliz, the singer told Saturday Beats that she had been in the industry for over two decades but had not attained fame. She told Saturday Beats that it was probably because her attention had been divided. She said, “I think the reason I have yet to become popular is because I am also doing other things. I didn’t face music completely as a full career. I am the managing director of about four subsidiaries. It prevents me from concentrating fully on my music career.

“Despite everything, as a child of God, the glory first goes to God. He gave me the inspiration to record my songs. He also gave me the energy, good health, and necessary provision as well in terms of finances. I also thank my husband and my immediate family. Had it been my husband didn’t support me, it wouldn’t have been easy. So many husbands would have stopped their wives from being an artiste as soon as they got married. But my husband knew this was my passion and he allowed me to carry on. I am also grateful to my fans that also support me at all times.”

While speaking on her style, the actress stated that being a gospel musician does not mean that she should dress shabbily. She stated that the first time she ever wore a pair of trousers was in 2007 when she left Nigeria for Germany. “Having a style that some people would describe as flamboyant doesn’t mean you are not a child of God. It depends on how you want to serve God. Christianity is a personal race. So if I feel that to look good is okay for me, then I have to always look good as long as I am not naked. If I add colours to my dressing, it is to the glory of God who gave us seven colours.

“He gave everybody wisdom to use the colours since He knows that colours can make things beautiful. I know my face when I apply make-up and I also know how it is when I don’t apply it. I think I feel when I apply make-up, I look better. If you want to judge me because I apply make-up, then that is your cup of tea. It is God who judges and He knows us. If you like, rub charcoal on your body, God knows you. I was against wearing trousers before but I now wear them. I actually started wearing them in 2007 when I went to Germany.

READ ALSO: My father’s name has opened doors for me – Pa James’ son

“Before then, I had packed skirts and gowns to take along with me and when my husband asked me if I included some pairs of trousers, I reminded him I didn’t wear them. He actually went and bought two pairs of trousers for me. He reminded me that Germany is not Nigeria and that their weather is cold. That was actually my first time of travelling abroad. In fact, I started feeling cold at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. I went to a shop and bought a pair of socks. Immediately we landed in Germany, I opened my luggage and brought out a pair of trousers,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]