My father almost disowned me for becoming an actor – Femi Branch
Young Femi Branch gained admission to the University of Ife, now Obafemi Awolowo University, to study Religious Studies. However, what his father had in mind was for his son to become a lawyer.

In fact, his father loved the law profession that he went back to school to bag a diploma degree in the course. So he was so disappointed when his son suddenly decided to become an actor; a profession that was not popular at the time.

While talking with Saturday Beats, the actor said that his father almost disowned him because of his career choice. “It was a serious matter for me at home when I decided to study theatre arts because my father always wanted a lawyer. It was so bad that he had to go back to the University of Ibadan to take a diploma course in law; he really wanted one of his children to become a lawyer but I could not have been bothered.

“For him, it was a disappointment and he almost did not contact me for about two years. Our fight was settled when I did a commercial for MTN. I was not in Lagos and we had not spoken for a long time before that and out of the blue, I got a call from my dad; he was asking me how I was doing. He said that he saw the advertisement and congratulated me on it.

“I called my mother later and she was the one that told me that one of my father’s friends had seen the billboard and called his attention to it. He went there to check. It was not easy but I am thankful for the fact that they were later glad that I took the decision that I did,” he said.

A quick search of the actor’s name on google will bring up articles that the actor is worth about $6m.

However, the actor told Saturday Beats that his net worth was not up to that amount, even though he added that he aspired to be worth such an amount.

He said, “The interesting thing about the work we do is that it is showbiz; it is driven largely by perception. People just look at us, they see the glitz and glamour and believe that we are worth a certain amount of money; let us not even talk about the musicians that exaggerate their net worth. In our profession, because of the nature of our vocation, there is the tendency for people to ascribe more to you than you are worth; I pray to be worth $6m.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]