It’s not true I was arrested in America-Yewande Adekoya
Olushola Ricketts

Background

I’m the first of five children and I was born in Lagos State. Growing up was interesting for me because my parents gave us everything we wanted, but they didn’t spoil us. I really appreciate the way we were brought up, as my parents prepared us for what we would face in the world as adults.

Education

I attended Bright Star Nursery and Primary School, Somolu, Lagos, and Bright Star Comprehensive High School, Bariga, Lagos. After obtaining a diploma in Network Engineering from the National Institute of Information Technology, I proceeded to Babcock University to study Mass Communication.

Childhood dreams

As a child, I was a handful. I wanted to be everything. I liked telling stories during break hours while I was in primary school. I will say destiny brought me into acting.

Parental support

My parents were supportive from the beginning. As a matter of fact, they sponsored my very first movie production in 2006.

Career

I started acting professionally in 2002 when I joined Alphabash Music and Theatre Group. We were into stage performances. Prior to that, I had been a storyteller and actress right from my primary school days. I was actively involved in school theatre, even in the university. I produced my first movie in 2006 and it was titled, Life Secret. It was later turned to a TV series.

However, I believe that I am just getting started. There is always room for improvement and there are still many grounds to cover. The journey has just begun and I pray for more grace to keep pushing on.

Roles

I can go to any length to interpret a role assigned to me in a movie. However, the people I work with know my stand about nudity and featuring in scenes that are sexually explicit, so they don’t send me such scripts. I have always been like this so it has nothing to do with marriage. I am an African woman and a mother.

Challenges

I am grateful to God for giving me the strength to withstand the storm as an actor. I must confess to you, it was really challenging at the beginning of my career in 2002. When I look back at the stormy moments that God helped me to conquer, my heart is always filled with thanks and appreciation. No one could have survived those troubled moments without the strength and grace that come from God. But despite all the challenges that came my way, there was never a time I felt like quitting the industry.

Controversies

The rumour that I was arrested for fraud in America in 2017 was false. I woke up that day and saw the news everywhere. I felt the journalist was paid to write such defamatory news about me by someone who was threatened by my brand. But she made a huge mistake because she attacked the wrong person. I didn’t travel to the US in 2017 as she claimed; I was in Nigeria working. I am an upright citizen and I have never been associated with anything illegal. All claims of this sort should be disregarded. The American government is not silly; I have even travelled to the US and Canada after the fraud news. The journalist didn’t apologise or retract the story; so, my lawyers were left with no option but to sue her. As we speak, the case is in court. The said journalist has refused to turn up in court since the case started.

Piracy

Piracy has been a major problem in the industry for a very long time. Other challenges have become part of us and we have learnt how to deal with them. The industry is growing and I believe we will become a force to reckon with across the globe pretty soon.

Regrets

I am happy with my life. Given a chance to turn back the hands of time, the only thing I would do differently is to get married and start making babies earlier.

Fame

I am still who I am. Fame has not changed anything about me. Fame has only taught me to be more humble.

Role models

I don’t have a role model, but I have people who I admire and respect their talent and courage. I admire the likes of Genevieve Nnaji, Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde, Bimbo Akintola, Funke Akindele, Fathia Williams (Balogun), Bimbo Oshin, and a host of others.

Marriage

I have been married for six years and it hasn’t changed anything about me, except the fact that I am a wife and mother. Motherhood is beautiful. I thank God for the grace. I wish I had married and started a family earlier.

Fashion

I like simplicity. Even as a person, I am very simple. I am a workaholic and people tell me I am fun to be with.

Relaxation

I like to stay indoors with my family. I also enjoy travelling and seeing new places.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]