We’ll sue FG – former tenants of demolished Artists’ Village
Chux Ohai

Three years after the demolition of the National Council for Arts and Culture Artists’ Village in Iganmu, Lagos, which housed several art studios, workshops, dance studios belonging to artists and some service contractors, the Federal Government has failed to fulfill its promises to the former tenants whose properties were destroyed.

It would be recalled that the demolition of the village was allegedly carried out in the wee hours of January 23, 2016 by a team of armed policemen and officials led by the then General Manager of the National Theatre, Mr. Kabiru Yusuf, who apparently acted on the orders of the government.

Investigation shows that no effort was made to rebuild the destroyed Artists’ Village as promised.

Although the Minister for Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, had promised to pay the artists the sum of N20m as compensation for properties lost during the demolition exercise and to rebuild the village, he has failed to do so.

The Coordinator of the village, Mr Tope Babayemi, in an online interview with our correspondent, said the former tenants, many of who had been displaced since the incident occurred, were prepared to seek redress in the court over the matter.

Babayemi, who is currently in the United States, said, “We have engaged the services of a lawyer to pursue the matter in court. It is a real disappointment to see that the minister has not made good on his publicly stated promises regarding the Artists’ Village. It is a shame, really.

“It appears to me that the Federal Government that merged the old Ministry of Tourism and Culture with that of Information really does not understand how and where to locate the creative industry in the context of national development.”

Babayemi, who claimed that he was still in the US on an extended Sabbatical leave, also dropped the hint that he might have considered relocating to that country, largely due to personal losses incurred during the demolition of the village.

He said, “There’s not enough to engage a professional like myself at home at this time. Having said that, the structures I set up back in Nigeria are still intact. The Different Aesthetics Group is still on ground. I have a staff of three managers running Topdew Arts Marketing at the Little Theatre at the Artists’ Village.

“The last bit of significant work I did, before leaving in June 2018 was with the Bank of Industry, Nigeria as a policy adviser (large Institutions). I worked with the Group Head, Mrs. C. Nwuka to deliver a report on the National Theatre and the National Stadium.

“As I have painfully observed in the past, the bane of the arts and culture sector and the creative industry in Nigeria is the lack of effective leadership and direction from government. It is really sad and deeply frustrating.”

Even if President Muhammadu Buhari failed to secure a second term in office, Babayemi noted, the affected artists would still go ahead and seek justice over the destruction of their properties.

“As noble creative artists and good citizens, we will remain law abiding and keep pushing and seeking justice through legal means. Even if Buhari loses, the new government will naturally inherit the liability. The way it is going, we are likely to be seeking ‘punitive damages’ to send clear signals to any government in power not to toy with the livelihood of law abiding artists and citizens,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]