I get lots of marriage proposals online –Omo Ibadan
Tofarati Ige

Popular social media comedian, Omo Ibadan, went viral on the Internet recently when she pleaded for her future husband to come to her on time. With her plea, many took it to mean that she was love starved. In a chat with Sunday Scoop, however, she revealed that she was not in short supply of marriage proposals.

She said, “Even before that post, I have been getting many marriage proposals – both serious and unserious ones. However, I want a man that appreciates me as a woman and would always support what I do. The most important thing is that she should love what I do. I am not really the choosy type; as long as I like you, that’s fine. I also want someone that has a vision. In terms of physical qualities, I really cannot tell. If I say I want a dark-skinned guy (which is actually my preference) and I fall in love with someone who isn’t that way, what do I do?”

Maintaining that she cannot sacrifice her career for any man, Omo Ibadan said, “My future first! If I like you and you don’t like what I do, maybe we just have to stop whatever we are doing. I cannot even be attracted to someone that does not like what I do.”

The comedian also disagreed with insinuations that social media comedians don’t last long professionally. She stated, “It’s not true that social media comedians have a short professional lifespan. Look at someone like Arole, he started from social media and has taken his craft beyond that to being a filmmaker. If you know how to make use of your platform and network, you will definitely advance. If people say that they no longer see you on Instagram, maybe they should check other platforms.

“I have plans to make my own movie and go back to my music career (which is actually what I started with). I also plan to have shows and other things. I have a song that will be coming out soon. It’s an afropop love song.”

READ ALSO: I’m not as tough as I appear in movies –Jaiye Kuti

Lending words of advice to people who are battling with depression, she said, “There are times that we all feel like we are not doing well. There are times we all feel like we’re failing and are not doing the right things. That is normal. It is only a sign that there are still many other things that can be done. It’s better not to concentrate on what you think is not working out, but look for the solution. I don’t think taking one’s life is the best. There are several people who look up to you no matter your level.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]