BBNaija auditions: Nigerians condemn obstruction of traffic
Some Nigerians have expressed diverse reactions as crowds gather to audition for the Big Brother Naija auditions across the country on Friday.

News Agency of Nigeria reports that thousands of prospective housemates arrived the venues as early as 2 am to get auditioned in time, with some obstructing free flow of traffic.

The fourth season of the hit reality show was announced on January 15 by organisers, Multichoice and auditions were billed for Friday and Saturday across selected states.

In Abuja, where the auditions took place at Wuse, the rowdy crowd was quite disorganized as people struggled to enter the venue.

READ ALSO: Davido, Cardi B, Meek Mill, others to perform at Belgium Festival

Meanwhile, in Lagos State, the audition crowd blocked a large portion of Allen, Adeniyi Jones, Ikeja preventing residents from going about their normal activities.

Reacting to the crowd, some Nigerians took to Twitter to express their amazement at the large turnout. They, however, expressed displeasure at the disruption of traffic and their usual activities.

@Yslaplace said, “Traffic and people are fainting already in Lagos. Abuja looks like a revival service: a whole dual lane road blocked.”

@obidiananthony tweeted, “The crowd for bbnaija is crazy. Abuja multichoice office audition venue as at 7 am on the first day of audition.”

@Susan_damsel said, “Abuja is no go area o, kudos to Asuu strike, more than 2000 people and I am sure it’s only 500 they want to audition, I give up.”

@Ebonyslim tweeted, “So these are the people that caused that massive traffic at Adeniyi Jones today and made my son get to school by 8:40 am.”

@Ololadeolusola said, “How in the world will @DStvNg be having #BigBrotherNaijaAuditions on Aromire Avenue, Ikeja. Why?

“There are thousands of people wanting to audition and the whole Adeniyi Jones and environs is on lockdown! Trying the get my son to school since 6.45am. Too unfair.”

The 2019 edition will take place in Nigeria and winner will get 45 million Naira worth of prizes. The number of contestants for the upcoming season is currently unknown.

(NAN)