We’re going to change future of Nigeria’s creative industry – Odugbemi
Seasoned filmmaker and Rector of the Multichoice Talent Factory Academy, Femi Odugbemi talks about the long-term goals of the academy in this interview with CHUX OHAI

What are the specific, immediate and long term goals of the Multichoice Talent Factory masterclasses and for who are they conceived?

They are conceived for those who are really working and leading the different technical lines of our industry. We have 60 of them. Everybody is selected from the major players in the industry. There are senior NTA audio people there. Also there are audio people from LTV, Silverbird TV, independent production companies and Nollywood.

The reason we are doing the masterclasses is to actually try and touch the whole areas of the industry with the information. We have done a lot by experimenting. There is a lot that you can do with just your own passion, but the world is an amazing technological space. Things are changing at such an alarming rate that by the time you think you know it all, everything you know has changed.

We are not talking about fundamentals only, but we are also talking about how to bring to the table knowledge that is current, global and best practice. That is the only way we are going to change the future. The only way to do this is to find those who are already the best in the country and put information at their disposal so that they can compete internationally.

I think that we are doing a lot in our country, simply driven by passion. But the only way that we can make our film makers prosperous is simply to ensure that their works can travel.

By travel, it means that NetFlix, for example, will not need to invest $1m to redo everything in order to have it ready for an international audience. Instead of this, they should give the $1m to the film maker. I am not talking about the single man or woman whose name is in the newspapers; I am talking about the heads of department (the HODs for sound, camera and production design, respectively; for example) who really make the films look the way they do. We can empower them. That is the goal.

What aspects of filmmaking will be treated during the masterclasses?

Technically we have the challenge that the sound has to be cleaner and better, but there are many things we don’t know about sound. I am talking about the creative side of sound. Right now in Nollywood a lot of people are making money by cleaning up sound. They are doing additional recording (ADR), for example, because the recording that was done on set was totally unusable. This is costing film makers more money. We would spend less, if we started with the knowledge of recording cleaning.

Self-taught people tend to think that they don’t need to participate in this kind of programme to stay relevant in the film industry. What do you say to this?

It depends on how high such people wish to fly. In all honestly, nobody questions the description of a duck as a bird, but when you are talking about eagles and where they fly, its name will never come up because you know that it simply doesn’t have the ability. The duck has wings, but they are not of the kind that we are talking about.

I am not keen to force anyone to grow. Growing is an economic thing. The better you are, the more you can earn. If you are happy where your life is and you really do not need anything extra, by all means we live in a democracy. Regardless of how good you are at anything in the world, there is always a way to be better. And the only way to be better is to get more information. The difference between you and me, at any level, is information.

We are no longer a phenomenon. Nobody invites us to a film festival just to see a live Nollywood practitioner as if he is an animal from the zoo. We now have young and well-trained Nollywood film makers. So, if you are still mediocre, your excuses will not work. Our training won’t be for those who are quite happy with what they are because the first qualification is to be passionate, hungry and to look for excellence.

As the Rector of the MTF Academy, how soon do you think that the participants will be ripe enough to take over the industry?

I don’t want them to take over individually. I want them to form cells or teams to work together and transform their passion into something that is structurally strong, not to work as individual film makers but to establish production companies. We want 20 of them to hire another 100 people. We want them to be game changers in the economy of the creative industry and to expand opportunities for other people.

Projects like this don’t come without challenges. In your case, what challenges did you encounter and how did you overcome them?

I think the biggest challenge in our industry is that everyone always questions everyone’s new things. My response to that is to always to let the results speak for themselves. I have never done anything that didn’t have something to do with training. So for me, it is a challenge because it simply means that transparency is a very crucial part of what we are doing. I was very keen about being transparent in the selection process. So we made the selection process as digital as it can be. To me, that was the biggest challenge.

What should have been a big challenge is how to sustain the level of support that we got. I think Multichoice also answered that. Initially I was worried that it is often easy to create a public relations thing and do it like it’s a reality show. Multichoice agreed not to make this a reality show. That is why there is no camera showing the participants.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]