Don Jazzy’s Mavin Records attracts multi-million dollar investment
Mavin Records founded by a renowned musician, Michael Collins Ajereh a.k.a Don Jazzy, on Wednesday, announced a multi-million dollar equity investment, global strategic partnership deal with Kupanda Holdings.

Don Jazzy announced the deal to the public through his Instagram handle @donjazzy.

“Our mission is to grow Mavin Global into the music powerhouse of Africa.

“By collaborating with artists, African creatives, both local and international partners, so that we can become a globally recognised household name and a go-to platform for connecting African music with the world,” he said.

READ ALSO: Don Jazzy’s Marvin Records attracts multi-million dollar investment

The record label recently secured a partnership with Kupanda Holdings aimed at creating better opportunities for African music.

Also, the label’s focus includes scaling operations to meet the rapidly growing international demand for African music, on growing its roster and on strengthening its services across the globe.

Mavin is home to top African artistes like Tiwa Savage and Korede Bello, since its inception in 2012.

Mavin has been an industry leader in leveraging digital platforms like Youtube, Twitter and Instagram, to reach its local audience and grow significant fan bases among the African Diaspora in the US, Europe and UK.

Similarly, Mr Tege Oghenejobo, Chief Operating Officer of Mavin Global, said that the investment would enable the company to strengthen this advantage as it develops brand partnerships that support its artists’ values and stories.

“With the resources and operational capacity Kupanda Capital brings along with its investment, Mavin is now ready to grow our artist roster and facilitate partnerships at a global scale.

“We are looking to build an institution that will support the fantastic creative ecosystem in Africa, and move Afrobeats to the forefront of the global industry,”he said.

Mr Bobby Pittman, the Co-Founder and Managing Partner at Kupanda Capital, said that Mavin is an advantageous “Record’ label that would promote Africa music industry to the world.

“Between Don Jazzy’s leadership in defining the sound of modern Afrobeats and developing top African artists.

“Mavin Global has a unique advantage and opportunity to build the record label that will accelerate the promotion of African popular music to the world.

We are impressed by the Mavin team’s experience and are pleased to partner with them in their next phase of growth,” he said.

(NAN)