BUAF holds grand finale playwright competition
The Beeta Universal Arts Foundation will hold the grand finale of the second Beeta Playwright Competition on January 30, 2019 at the MUSON Centre, Onikan, Lagos. The foundation is led by the award winning actress and producer, Bikiya Graham-Douglas.

A total of 348 entries were received from playwrights across the country, out of which 10 were shortlisted for the final stage of the competition. The shortlisted entries are Tick Tock More Talk (Shehu Zock-Sock), Mr. Macaroni (Rukee Ejigbo), Beyond the Wig (Joshua Alabi), Echoes of the Drum (Ubonla Adenike), Jagagba (Abdul-Qudus Ibrahim), A Love like This (Kehinde Ademoye), Room 7 (Ekpeno Ukut), Transparent (Kelvinmary Ndukwe), Shark Boy (El Osas Iyalekhue) and Queen Akhadze (Elias Ozikpu).

A panel of judges for the competition chaired by award-winning playwright, Prof Ahmed Yerima, is saddled with the task of selecting the best play from the 10 shortlisted entries.

Other members of the panel are journalist and arts critic, Shaibu Husseini; theatre director, Kenneth Uphopho; seasoned actress, Ego Boyo; theatre producer and writer, Ayo Jaiyesinmi; and publisher, Ibiso Graham-Douglas.

The authors of the shortlisted entries had a training session facilitated by Yerima, Uphopho, and Ibiso Graham-Douglas and held at the MUSON Centre, Lagos.

The winner of the competition, who will take home a cash prize of N1m and will be entitled to a publishing deal with Paperworth Books Limited, will be announced at the grand finale scheduled to hold on Wednesday, January 30, 2019.

In addition, the winning play will be produced by the BUAF at the Terra Kulture Arena, Victoria Island, Lagos. Also, a campus tour to selected universities across the country is part of the deal for winning the prize.

The competition is sponsored by Union Bank and supported by WAPIC Insurance Plc, NIMASA, Terra Kulture, Olajide and Oyewole LLP, and the British Council.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]