I didn’t allow fame, women to distract me – former Mr Nigeria
Chux Ohai

Former Mr Nigeria, Deji Bakare, had a tough time keeping away from an army of female admirers who naturally swarmed around him after he emerged the winner of the pageant in 2011.

Bakare, in an interview with our correspondent, said that although winning the pageant exposed him to a lot of attractive women and other temptations, he just could not allow himself to be carried away by his success and fame.

Fortunately at the time, he added, he was already involved in a relationship with the woman he married two years ago. And that helped a lot to keep him away from trouble and temptation.

The ex-Mr Nigeria disapproved of men, especially entertainers, who give in too easily to temptation and allow themselves to be distracted from the path of success. “My wife was with me when I was struggling and had nothing. She is still with me. Many celebrities get carried away by fame. They don’t know that having a good home is very important to their growth. That is why most entertainers have issues in their marriages. If you marry the wrong woman, it can affect your career and life. When you have a good home, your dreams will be alive. I am happily married and blessed with three children,” he said.

Lamenting that modeling was still quite unattractive in this part of the world, he said, “A lot of people don’t know what modeling is all about. They just jump into it. Nigerians don’t respect models as well. I decided to build a school, Deji Bakare Talent Hunt Search because I wanted a different orientation for aspiring models.”

On his future ambition, he added, “I won’t be satisfied until I become President of Nigeria. We have many problems in Nigeria and it has been difficult trying to make a difference. I am not just interested in making money; I want to serve Nigerians.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]