Flaunting my wife on social media may affect my marriage –Jigan
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Kazeem Abimbola, popularly known as Jigan Babaoja, has said he will never flaunt his wife on social media. Jigan noted that he married his wife for himself and not the world.

“I don’t fancy putting pictures of my wife on social media because it may put my marriage into trouble. For instance, if I had something to do with another lady, the fact that I posted my wife’s picture on Instagram may prompt the other lady to cause trouble between me and my wife. My wife is not meant for the world; she is meant for only me and my children,” he said.

Jigan was recently involved in what seemed like a heated argument between himself, Funsho Adeolu and Kevin Ikeduba. Most of his fans thought the fight was real, until Jigan came out to state that it was just a prank. When asked about the motivation behind the supposed argument, he said he came up with the prank to attract traffic to his page.

“As an actor, I am supposed to make anything look as believable as possible. I contacted Kevin and I told him to act like the fight was real; so that was why he replied me in an angry tone via his Instagram page. Interestingly, it went viral and people were calling to know what happened but it was just a prank.

“As a comedian, I have to do things differently. I had to take the video down because Nigerians took the video too seriously; that was why I came out quickly to clear the air that it wasn’t real. I wanted to make it trend for a week, but it couldn’t stand for that long. I wanted it to be a video challenge similar to the 10-year challenge that trended recently. I only wanted traffic on my page. I am a very calm and respectful man,” he told Saturday Beats.

Speaking on the notion that actors in the Nigerian movie industry live fake lives, Jigan blamed the problem on competition.

“Whatever life I have chosen to live has to be appreciated. I have told God that I don’t want too much money, I just want to be comfortable. I am not in competition with anybody. There is a lot of competition in the industry and the people involved do not need it,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]