Acting wasn’t fetching me money so I quit for eight years – Olayinka Solomon
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

After Nollywood actor and producer, Olayinka Solomon, shared a picture of her new house on her social media page, it attracted many comments, with some people questioning her source of income. In an interview with Saturday Beats, the actor noted that she only shared the picture of her house to appreciate God and not to attract undue attention to herself.

“I have been a landlady for a long time; I have some properties in my name. I actually bought this house; it was even a friend of mine that uploaded the picture on my behalf initially. I didn’t mean to show off. In the entertainment industry, it is not easy to hide your accomplishments.

“I was surprised when I woke up the next day and noticed that I had been tagged on so many posts. It was the next morning I even posted the picture of the house on my platform. I live a very private life.

“I went through many things in the early stage of my career; I uploaded the picture to thank God and not to impress anybody. Everybody knows that acting cannot give me that kind of money to build a house; God is the source of my income,” she told Saturday Beats.

Solomon has been absent from the movie scene for some years, and in the interview with one of our correspondents, she revealed that she had to leave the world of entertainment for a while because it wasn’t bringing her money.

“I had to leave the industry for about eight years because it wasn’t fetching me money, I was just focused on my business, the love for movies brought me back on set in 2018. I rarely act these days; I do more of movie productions now. In the early stage of my career, I faced some challenges, as I wasn’t free with some of my senior colleagues at the time.

“My most challenging role was when I had to play triple roles at the same time. I am always on my own; I don’t have friends or enemies in the industry. I would advise anyone that wants to go into the movie industry to stay focused and most importantly, have another source of income apart from acting. The industry is not easy for up-and-coming actors. As an up-and-coming actor, it doesn’t really bring money. There are some movie productions that are not viable,” she said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]