Up-and-coming entertainers laud Glo’s online competition
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

Winners in the ongoing GLOIN60SECONDS online talent competition received their cash prizes on Wednesday at Gloworld retail outlets in various parts of the country. In Lagos, Ajayi Oluwadamilare, an up-and-coming comedian and a medical doctor, Moyosore Doherty, collected a N50, 000 cheque from the Gloworld in Surulere, while 21-year-old Adeuti Samuel Oluwatope, a singer, received his prize at the Ikorodu Gloworld outlet.

Also in Ibadan, Adepeju Ruqqayah Oyindamola, a National Youth Service Corps member serving in Enugu State, who won in the singing category, received her cheque, while another winner, Chuke Chinemelum, a medical student of Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, was presented with his N50,000 cheque at the Kada Cinema Gloworld in Benin City.

Expressing delight with his prize, Adeuti Oluwatope could not stop thanking Globacom. “I can’t thank Glo enough for this recognition. Apart from the money, Glo has helped me to boost the confidence I have in what I love to do. This will encourage me to work harder in my music career,” said Oluwatope, a student of Ondo State University of Technology. According to him, the money will help his upkeep in school.

Similarly, Moyosore Doherty commended Glo for introducing various initiatives to delight its subscribers. “Ordinarily, I like to dance and have fun. So, when I heard about the online talent competition, I decided to do a video of myself doing what I enjoy most. And here I am with N50,000, just like that. I am now aiming for the big prize of N1m. Thumbs up to Glo”, she declared.

The six winners were those with the best entries out of the thousands of video uploads made by Globacom subscribers from various parts of the country in the third week of the competition.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]