UNILAG holds symposium to honour musicologist
Ademola Olonilua and Timileyin Akinkahunsi

The University of Lagos, Akoka recently held a three-day symposium and concert in honour of Nigerian musicologist, Akin Euba. The concert was held between January 16 and18 in Lagos.

The event attracted scholars and lovers of music from the US, UK, South Africa, Ghana, Nigeria and other countries. The event was sponsored by MUSON Centre and the University of Lagos. Keynote speakers at the symposium included Professor Kofi Agawu, a Hughes-Rogers professor of music, Princeton University, US.

The Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, was represented by Mr Steve Ayorinde, Lagos State Commissioner for Arts, Tourism & Culture. In his presentation, he described the achievements of Euba as remarkable.

Ayorinde said, “The achievement of Prof Akin Euba in the field of classical music is legendary. He sits comfortably among his contemporaries, including Prof Laz Ekwueme – now a traditional ruler – the late Prof Sam Akpabot, and many others who have domesticated the rules guiding the rendition of African music to accommodate our traditional tunes.”

Euba’s interest in music began when he was a student at the CMS Grammar School in Lagos. After years of studying at the Trinity College of Music, London and the University of California, Los Angeles, Euba returned to Nigeria to start his career at the Department of Music, University of Ife, now Obafemi Awolowo University, in 1976.

He later left Ife for the University of Lagos, where he was appointed Director of the Centre for Cultural Studies and professor of music from 1977 to 1980. As a former member of MUSON, Euba has devoted a significant part of his professional career to promoting African modern compositions on the global stage through performances, research and creative work.

He retired in 2011 and now lives in the US.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: the [email protected]