I don’t regret singing Logo Benz – Lil Kesh
Olushola Ricketts

Singer, Keshinro Ololade, aka Lil Kesh, has finally reacted to the controversies surrounding his song, Logo Benz, featuring Olamide.

In a chat with Sunday Scoop, Kesh said they were inspired to do the song by the happenings in society. He said, “Logo Benz was inspired by things we saw on social media and in our environment. One of the trending news now is how people are stealing pants for money rituals. One of those things they buy with the money is Benz cars. We thought we should do a song about it and create awareness; this is what we have been doing as musicians. But I guess people got the wrong impression. When it came out, it was heavily criticised and people felt we were promoting money rituals. I understood why it happened because some parts of the lyrics were not too clear. If we had looked for a better way to put the story out there, people would have understood it better.”

But the singer said he didn’t regret releasing the song and he would still release something similar if he was given a second chance. He added, “We have been able to create so much awareness on the issue and I am sure we have been able to save lives. Even if it was just one person we saved by releasing the song, I am happy. I don’t live with regrets. If I could go back in time, I would still release the song. But this time, we would do it in a way that it would not be misunderstood.”

Kesh also said he knew the song would generate controversies from the outset. “I didn’t know the controversies would be this much. I intend to address the issue, but I wanted the tension to drop. If I had come online immediately to address it, people might still not pay attention to me,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]