Rohr arrives today for Squirrels clash
’Tana Aiyejina

Nigeria will open camp on Sunday ahead of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying fixtures against Benin Republic and Lesotho, but Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr will be in Uyo, match venue against Benin, on Saturday (today).

The Eagles host the Squirrels of Benin on Wednesday at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium in Uyo. The game kicks off at 5pm.

Rohr will return to Nigeria from Cairo, where he has been, to offer technical support to the Olympic Eagles ahead of the team’s opening game against Ivory Coast at the Africa U-23 Cup of Nations in Egypt.

After weekend’s matches across Europe, the 23 invited players will start arriving from Sunday.

The team will then travel to Maseru four days later for their match-day two clash against the Crocodiles of Lesotho.

Eagles trio William Troost-Ekong, Samuel Chukwueze and Emmanuel Dennis will arrive at the team’s Le Meridien Ibom Hotel and Golf Resort camp in Uyo 48 hours before the clash, Sports Extra reports.

Troost-Ekong will be in action for Serie A side Udinese when they host SPAL on Sunday, before joining his international teammates for the game.

The trio Paul Onuachu, Chukwueze and Dennis will also join two days before the clash due to their club engagements.

Chukwueze, barring any hitch, will make his 50th appearance for Villarreal when they travel to the Iberostar stadium to face Marlloca in a La Liga clash on Sunday, while Dennis, who has scored six times this season for Brugge, is expected to line up for his Belgian side as they face Antwerp away in a league clash.

Onuachu will seek to score his fifth league goal for Genk when they host Gent in a Belgian league clash same day.

Sports Extra reports that Victor Osimhen, Wilfred Ndidi, Alex Iwobi, Ramon Azeez and Ola Aina are expected in camp November 10 barring any traveling hitch from their respective bases in Europe. They are poised to feature for the clubs’ league games on November 9.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]