Arsenal can never have another Henry – Alesh
Popular Nollywood actor, Alesh Onilegbale, talks on Arsenal major weakness, his love for Real Madrid coach, Zinedine Zidane, and many more in this interview with EBENEZER BAJELA

Being an actor can be time consuming, do you have time for sports?

Yes. I tried as much as possible out of my busy schedule to enjoy sporting activities because that’s how I relax when I am not on set.

Which sports do you watch?

I like football and tennis a lot. Those are the two sports that I enjoy most when I’m at home. Though, there are other sports like athletics that I love watching but I picked the two over every other sport.

Does that mean you played football as a kid?

Yes, of course. I played the regular street football which we called ‘set’ in those days and I played football during our school inter-class competitions.

Did you at any point consider playing professional football?

No. The thought never came into my head.

Why didn’t you?

Probably I wasn’t so crazy to be tempted. I love football a lot but playing it full time is not something I wanted to do because I have always wanted to be an actor and I am glad that’s what I am doing right now.

If you had chosen to play football, which position would you have played?

I enjoy playing the midfield role because it gives me the freedom to express myself. I love space and playing there gives me the room to do what I want. But I must make it clear that I don’t like to play in the defensive midfield role.

Why?

I must admit that I am not made for that position because to be a defensive midfielder, you must be very strong and have much strength. You’ve seen players like Claudio Makele, Michael Essien, Gennaro Gatuso, those guys are very strong and that’s why they were able to excel in that position.

Are you admitting that you are weak?

I am not weak but I am simply not strong enough for that role because it takes a lot to play there.

Who is your favourite footballer?

Zinedine Zidane. I like to refer him as the best player of all time and the evidence is there, we saw the classic goal he scored in the UEFA Champions League. He is just too much and a legend to behold.

Which football club do you support?

I am an Arsenal fan and nothing will change that come rain, come sunshine.

Musician African China said he doesn’t see Arsenal winning any title in the next 10 years and that the club need top pastors and prophets to be able to win trophies. Do you agree with him?

With the way the club is being run and how the boys played, I totally agree with him that Arsenal might not win anything in the next 10 years or maybe more. Until something drastic is done, they will continue to go without trophy. The team lacks quality and aggressiveness. Take a look at the game against Liverpool that they lost on penalties in the Carabao Cup. They lost because they didn’t have the strength and right mentality to see the game through. They pulled off a tough fight in that game but they couldn’t get the job done and that is what is missing for many years. They lost on penalties which could have happened to anyone but they also could have prevented it by not allowing Liverpool score the fifth goal. They need to develop the never-say-die attitude. So on this one, I am with African China all the way.

How do you feel when they lose?

I try to act normal when they lose, though it is not easy. I only wish there was an improvement this season.

Who is your best Arsenal player?

Thierry Henry. He is the best to have ever played for the club in my lifetime and I am not sure if the club can have another like him for now.

Have you had close contact with top sports personnel?

I have met many of them and I share close relationships with them. I told you I love football a lot, so I have met many footballers from Nigeria. I’ve met Peter Rufai, Segun Odegbami, Mutiu Adepoju, Austin Okocha, Nwankwo Kanu, Mercy Akide, Asisat Oshoala, Kazeem Ayila, Taiye Taiwo to mention a few.

Is your wife a sports person?

Yes. She loves tennis a lot and actually she influenced my love for tennis because of peace in the house. That’s what she enjoys most. I love my wife so much and I must accept and love whatever she likes.

Do you get mocked by your wife when Arsenal are not playing well?

Not at all. She is also an Arsenal fan and it hurts her to see them lose but like I said we try to act normal and not allow the defeat get to us.

Will you allow your children play football?

A very big yes to that. Football is so lucrative these days but most importantly, if it is something that they want, I will not stand in their way. All I want is for them to be successful and if that will come from playing football, then I am fine with it.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]