I’m not ashamed of my poor background –Olayinka
Slavia Prague striker, Peter Olayinka, is having a wonderful season for the Eternal Slavia in Europe. The former Zulte Waregem and KAA Gent man talks about life in Czech, the Prague derby, first Super Eagles call-up and more in this interview with SOLAPE LAWAL-SOLARIN

For every young boy in Nigeria, football is a passion. Can you tell us what it was like as a young boy playing football?

Like you have rightly put it, football is the most popular sport in Nigeria. You hardly see any young boy not kicking the ball around; either on the streets, red sands and any open space where you can just play the game and enjoy yourself as a kid. I did that while growing up and looking at where I am now I guess it’s worth it.

Did you run into trouble back in the day, especially with your parents?

Initially, I struggled to win their support. You know what it is with Nigerian parents and sports in general; it was quite tough getting them on my side. But at the end of the day, they turned around and started giving me their support.

How tough was it, trying to make it as a footballer?

Life is a journey, often times it’s not smooth. We have it rough and if you are lucky, you can have it smooth. Well, it was quite tough trying to make it as a footballer. The trials, the sacrifices, the days you had no money to go to training, you know it was quite tough.

You also told a website how you drank garri to training. Can you tell us more about that?

There’s nothing much to say about it again. Honestly, it’s part of the story of life, trials and struggles while trying to make it in life. I am not ashamed of it, I went through that tough process to be strong and confront adversity. Now, look at me, I’m reaping from my sweat.

So what does it take to be a successful footballer?

Nothing. It’s all about your commitment, drive and focus. For me, it was all about hard work and believing in myself.

You play for Slavia Prague in the Czech Republic. How is the country?

The Czech Republic is a beautiful country. It has this serene atmosphere and peace of mind. The country is nice, very peaceful and cool.

Do you speak Czech well?

Not really, but at least I can understand some few words. It is demanding for a player from an English-speaking country like Nigeria but, it’s part of the learning process. I can understand few words in the language.

Slavia is based in the capital. There is another club in Prague, Spartak. What is the derby atmosphere like when Slavia clash with their city rivals?

It’s intense and electrifying. The whole city comes to a standstill when the derby comes around. You see fans gearing up and hoping to win the bragging rights. It is just like the El Clasico and the London derbies. It is really competitive. As a player, you don’t want to mess up, you’ll put in an extra 110 per cent just to make the fans happy.

Slavia are in the UEFA Champions League. How does it feel playing and scoring at the San Siro on match-day one against Inter Milan?

I can’t describe the feeling because it was like a dream playing and scoring at the San Siro. The San Siro represents one of the most iconic places in Champions League football, and for me to have played there against Inter is unbelievable. It is an experience I will forever hold onto and more importantly my goal on that night sums up my football experience in the Champions League.

You got your first national call-up in last month’s friendly against Brazil in Singapore. How does it feel as a player?

Every player dreams of playing for their national teams, so, it is a dream come true for me. I remember when I got the call-up, I was excited and delighted. It is every footballers’ dream to play for their country and getting that opportunity is a plus to my career and achievements as a player.

Footballers are considered to be flashy. Do you see yourself as one?

No, I think I am reserved. I like keeping a low-profile, the attention and the buzz could be good at times, but generally, I prefer the quiet life.

But you wear dreadlocks on your head?

It doesn’t mean anything; there is nothing to it. It is just me being comfortable with the hair and my personality. Let me say the dreadlocks are just like a symbol of sorts, like Dutch legend, Frank Rijkaard, he wore it too. And I feel okay with it too.

What is your favourite Nigerian dishes?

Rice and beans of course.

How do you get to treat yourself to Nigerian foods in Czech Republic?

There is a Nigerian restaurant here in Prague and I also cook at home too.

Do you like music?

Yes, I do. It keeps me relaxed and you know calm. For me, Nigerian music is it. I like Wizkid most especially.

Aside music, what else do you do to unwind?

I watch movies a lot and also take my time to sleep.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]