Confusion over Rohr’s contract extension
Sodiq Oyeleke

Confusion has trailed the possibility of extending Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr contract by the Nigeria Football Federation.

Rohr’s future has been under speculation for some time despite leading the team to a first Nations Cup since 2013.

The PUNCH learnt that Rohr’s contract would end in June 2022 and it was expected that negotiation should have commenced between the coach and his employer – NFF.

But on Thursday, there were reports that no negotiation had held or was holding between Rohr and the NFF.

Though Rohr earlier said he was not in a rush to make a decision over his future with Eagles, our correspondent gathered that he’s being approached by other countries among whom are DR Congo and Cameroon.

When contacted, the spokesperson for the NFF, Ademola Olajire, described reports that Rohr’s contract would not be renewed as speculations.

He, however, refused to confirm if the coach’s contract would be extended.

“NFF has said no such thing. Let speculators have a field day,” Olajire said while responding to claims that the federation may not renew Rohr’s contract.

Meanwhile, there are strong indications that the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, would intervene in Rohr’s contract renewal.

The minister earlier intervened in the case of former Super Falcons Coach, Thomas Dennerby, but his efforts proved abortive as the Swede shunned resolution meetings and subsequently tendered his resignation.

The minister on Thursday, gave a hint that he may be involved in the administration of football to prevents its collapse.

The minister tacitly cautioned the NFF leadership against frustrating Rohr, tweeting that “We will work with not just the NFF but other federations to embrace best standards and practices in sports administration.

“We must exert greater responsibility from those charged with our sports administration. Government is working on leveraging private funding for sports development.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]