Sports minister sacks AFN Technical Director Adeleye
Sodiq Oyeleke

The Technical Director of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria, Sunday Adeleye, has been sacked.

His removal was contained in a letter addressed to the AFN president, Shehu Gusau.

A letter from the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development said Adeleye’s sack was ordered by the sports minister, Sunday Dare.

Apart from Adeleye’s sack, the AFN secretary-general, Adamu Elijah, was also recalled by the sports ministry.

The letter claimed that Adeleye was removed over alleged gross misconduct.

Our correspondent gathered that Adeleye might have been indicted by the report of a review committee set up to investigate Nigeria’s poor performance at the World Athletics Championships in Doha in September.

Part of the letter, which was issued by the ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Olusade Adesola, on Thursday, and addressed to Gusau, read, “Consequent on the recommendation of the Advisory Committee, I am further directed to convey the directive of the Honourable Minister for the immediate removal from office of Mr Sunday Adeleye as Technical Director of the AFN on account of ascertained gross misconduct.

“Accordingly, you are directed to convey to Mr. Sunday Adeleye in writing this directive and evidence of compliance delivered to the Honourable Minister.”

A statement from the sports minister’s media office said Adeleye’s sack was part of efforts to reform the sports sector.

The stamen read in part, “The AFN Technical Director has been removed, making him the first casualty of the radical reforms taking place in the sports industry.

“The sack comes as the AFN secretary-general was also recalled by the ministry and a new one will be announced.

“Adeleye’s removal followed the report of the Advisory Committee on the Poor Performance of Team Nigeria at the IAAF World Athletics Championships, Doha, Qatar 2019.

“The Advisory Committee had in its report indicted Adeleye in varying degrees in the handling of the federation’s affairs in Doha.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]