Eagles EPL preview: Iwobi poised for 110th EPL game
Ndidi in line for 97th start

Johnny Edward

Alex Iwobi is set to make his 110th Premier League appearance when he lines up for Everton against Southampton on Saturday.

Iwobi has made nine appearances (three as a substitute), scoring once for the Toffees, since joining this summer from Arsenal.

Prior to his move to Goodison Park, Iwobi churned out 100 EPL appearances for the Gunners, where he scored 11 goals and made 14 assists.

Should he finish on the winning side, the game at the Saint Marys will be his 54th win in English topflight division since he made his debut during the 2015/16 season.

His compatriot, Wilfred Ndidi, however, will be gunning for his 99th EPL appearance (97th start) when Leicester City host stuttering Arsenal at the King Power stadium on Saturday.

Since making his EPL debut in a 3-0 defeat at the hands of Chelsea on January 14, 2017, Ndidi has missed just seven of Leicester’s 105 games in the competition, operating the holding role under Claudio Ranieri, Craig Shakespeare, Claude Puel and Brendan Rodgers.

In his 10 Premier League appearances this season, Ndidi has made 32 interceptions. Not only is this more than any other player in the division, it is also more than any other player across Europe’s top five leagues.

The 22-year-old Nigeria international also stands out above the rest when it comes to tackling, making 53 in the EPL so far – four more than his closest rival in the division Ricardo Pereira. Isaac Success could make his third league appearance for Watford when they face Norwich at Carrow Road.

Elsewhere, Leon Balogun may sit out of Brighton’s trip to Old Trafford to face Manchester United. The Nigeria defender has missed 30 straight games in the EPL.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]