Odufuwa: Young basketball player braving the odds
Solape Lawal-Solarin

Eighteen-year-old Kanyinsola Odufuwa from Lagos is chasing his dream as a professional basketball player despite being told he was too fragile to play the sport by his teachers.

Odufuwa started playing for the Lagos Islanders when he was 11 and became the youngest player ever to star in the Lagos State Basketball League at just 15-years-old.

His pursuit of basketball started when he was eight, having struggled at school to get into the team after being told that “people of your size do not play basketball” by a teacher.

But the teenager showed once again he could be amongst the best in his chosen sport at the 2019 Nigeria Basketball Federation President Cup in Ilorin, Kwara State.

The event showcased some promising talents in Nigeria. It was not just a competition for the professionals but also for the future talents who stepped up to the plate for their respective teams.

The point guard put up some eye-popping displays, which he relishes.

The 18-year-old recounted, “I was told I couldn’t play basketball because of my size. I was quite frail then and my height? That is another story. I was still growing so the height was not that much.

“I believed that was what made the teacher to make that comment.”

But, only those who persevere can really standout. Despite the morale-deflating comments made by his teacher, Odufuwa wasn’t going to throw in the towel.

He wanted more. He needed to prove a point and he did.

“It motivated me, I wanted to prove them wrong,” he said with a defiant tone.

“I’m just a small boy from Lagos so you do not see opportunities like this,” the 6ft 4in guard told Sports Extra.

“It is exciting but I’m overwhelmed that I have been given this chance. And I seized it.”

Odufuwa was consistent for Lagos Islanders and one of the reasons they advanced to the final eight of the NBBF President Cup.

The 18-year-old guard scored double figures in four games except for the loss to Rivers Hoopers where he shot just eight points in 17 minutes.

He averaged 12.2 PPG, 2.6 RPG and 2.0 assists in five games.

“I’m grateful for this as it’s putting my team on the map for men’s basketball and it’s amazing.

“If I carry on like this, I believe my story can also motivate other younger guys.”

Odufuwa, however, hopes his dreams of featuring in the NBA will materialise soon if he features in future competitions in the Nigerian league and the national teams.

“I am hopeful and confident of the future. If I get to have more games and even play more competitive games, I’ll get to play for Nigeria at the cadet level down to the senior team D’Tigers and before you know it, land a lucrative deal in the NBA,” he told Sports Extra.

For every aspiring young basketball player like Odufuwa, NBA and its allure of stars is a sort of motivation.

So, which NBA star and NBA franchise does Odufuwa like?

“My favourite player is Kevin Durant of Brooklyn Nets. Durant’s skills and three-pointers get me excited.

“I take my time to watch him when he plays, so that I can evolve and improve my game further,” he stated.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]