Nigeria vs Benin: Troost-Ekong, Chukwueze, Dennis to arrive 48 hours before clash
Johnny Edward

Super Eagles trio William Troost-Ekong, Samuel Chukwueze and Emmanuel Dennis will arrive at the team’s Le Meridien Ibom Hotel and Golf Resort camp in Uyo 48 hours before the clash for next week’s 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Benin Republic, Sports Extra can report.

The Eagles open their Group L campaign against neighbours Benin at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium in Uyo on November 13, before travelling to face Lesotho four days later.

Troost-Ekong, who has been amazing in defence for Udinese this season in the Italian Serie A, will be in action for the Le Zebrette when they host SPAL on Sunday before joining his international teammates for the game.

The trio Paul Onuachu, Samuel Chukwueze and Emmanuel Dennis will also join two days before the clash due to their club engagements.

Chukwueze, barring any hitch, will make his 50th appearance for Villarreal when they travel to the Iberostar stadium to face Marlloca in a La Liga clash on Sunday.

While Dennis, who has scored six times this season for Brugge, is expected to line up for his Belgian side as they face Antwerp away in a league clash.

Onuachu will seek to score his fifth league goal for Genk when they host Gent in a Belgian league clash.

Sports Extra also reports that the quintet of Victor Osimhen, Wilfred Ndidi, Alex Iwobi, Ramon Azeez and Ola Aina are expected in camp November 10 barring any traveling hitch from their respective base in Europe.

They are poised to feature for the clubs in their league games on November 9.

It was also gathered that the team will hold a minimum of two full training sessions before the clash against Benin.

Meanwhile, Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, has expressed his displeasure at the fixture schedule facing his side stating that it is not “ideal and proper.”

“Our players from Europe will only get to us a day or two before the first game, so there is no time for adaptation to the African conditions,” Rohr said.

“After that game on Thursday, we travel to Lesotho away on Friday to play on an artificial surface on Sunday.

“This is not ideal and proper for any team. We’ve spoken to Confederation of African Football about this but nothing has been done.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]