U-23 AFCON: Imama banks on overseas-based players for trophy
Sodiq Oyeleke

Nigeria’s U-23 coach Imama Amapakabo says early arrival of overseas-based players in the team’s camp has boosted their chances of winning the Africa Cup of Nations holding in Egypt.

Amapakabo, in a press statement by the Nigeria Football Federation on Monday, also expressed delight at the output of his players in training.

Champions Nigeria are in Group B and will confront Ivory Coast at the Al Salam Stadium in Cairo on Saturday afternoon.

They will subsequently play against Zambia next Tuesday and South Africa three days later at the same venue.

The U-23 team are expected to depart Ismailia to their Novotel Hotel base in Cairo on Thursday.

He said, “The players have been working very hard and that is a positive point. They are looking forward to the tournament with a lot of enthusiasm and confidence.

“We are also happy to have most of the overseas-based squad members with us already. That allows time for good planning, bonding and team building.”

The statement noted that since the team arrived on Thursday evening, they’ve been practising at the training pitch of the Mercure Hotel in Ismailia.

The statement added, “Nigeria’s U-23 boys have intensified final preparations for this month’s AFCON finals with high expectations of picking the three points against their Ivorian counterparts in Saturday’s opening game of Group B.

“Midfield ace Kelechi Nwakali was the first overseas-based player in the team camp (he joined before the team left Nigeria), and he has since been joined by the likes of Tom Dele-Bashiru, Sincere Seth, Muyiwa Olabiran, Orji Okwonkwo, Valentine Ozornwafor, Anthony Izuchukwu, Bright Enobakhare, Sunday Faleye and Aliyu Yau Adam.

“Team captain Azubuike Okechukwu, defenders Bitok Stephen and Josiah Chukwudi and forward Taiwo Awoniyi are the only players still expected in the team camp, and will arrive before their departure for Cairo.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]