AFCON: Rohr woos U-23 players with Eagles call-up
…Elephants to unleash Chelsea, Celtic stars against Nigeria

Sodiq Oyeleke

Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, has encouraged Nigeria U-23 team to defeat their Ivorian counterparts during their Africa Cup of Nations opening game on Saturday at the As-Salam stadium in Cairo.

He urged them to be outstanding in the tournament, saying that he would monitor their performance during the game.

He also told them that those who perform well could be considered for the senior national team call-up.

Rohr said this when he paid a solidarity visit to the camp of national U-23 male team in Ismailia, Egypt, where they are preparing for the tournament.

When he met the players and their technical crew on Sunday morning, the tactician noted that he was in Ismailia as a form of support to the Nigerian team.

He said, “I’m here for a solidarity visit. I believe some of you will join me at Super Eagles some day.

“This team is full of potentials and I will be here to watch your first game against Ivory Coast on Saturday. I hope you will give all your best to make sure the team achieve its aim in this AFCON U-23 tournament.

“I will be leaving on Sunday because the Super Eagles are also preparing for the AFCON qualifiers.”

[READ ALSO] CAF Confed Cup: Juju scare as Rangers, Enyimba advance

The Nigerian team arrived in Egypt on Thursday evening for the tournament they won four years ago in Dakar.

They are in the same group with South Africa, Ivory Coast and Zambia.

Meanwhile, the young Elephants have released a list of 21 players to prosecute the eight-nation tournament that is billed to hold in Egypt between November 8 and 22.

Genoa’s highest goalscorer with five goals this season headlines the list while Celtic’s Vakoun Bayo also made the cut. The list also included Chelsea’s goalkeeper Tie Nicolas Basile and Toulouse FC midfielder Ibrahim Sangare.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]