CAF Confed Cup: Juju scare as Rangers, Enyimba advance
Sodiq Oyeleke and Raphael Ede

There was a mild drama in the second half of the CAF Confederation Cup return leg fixture of the playoff round between Rangers and ASC Kara of Togo at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu over claims that ‘juju’ was found in the goalpost of the visiting team.

This is as both Rangers and Enyimba will be representing Nigeria in the group stage of the CAF Confederation Cup.

While Enyimba qualified 4-1 on aggregate, Rangers reached the group stage with superior away goal.

The drama started about two minutes to the commencement of the second half of the game when a ball boy went to the goalpost to pick up a substance believed to be a charm dropped at the Lome side.

One of our correspondents, who was at the venue of the match, reported that goalkeeper Noble John received the alleged charm, while team captain, Yendoutie Richard Nane, gave it to him.

One of the players, who prefers anonymity, confirmed the incidence on the telephone.

He said, “When they substituted a player, we noticed that the player that replaced him came in with something and gave it to their captain. The captain then passed it to their central defender and to the goalkeeper.

“I was even telling my teammate that it could be a note so that they can change tactics. Not until the goalkeeper now went and put it beside the net.

“So, some officials also noticed it and told a ball boy that was behind the goal post to pick it. After the boy picked it, they said it was a long needle tied with different things.”

When contacted, the media officer of Rangers, Okonkwo Okolie, said pictures of the alleged charms were also sent to him.

READ ALSO: 14 corps members to repeat service in Ondo

Enyimba booked a spot in the group stage of the Confederation Cup following a 2-1 away win against South African side TS Galaxy on Sunday at the Mbombela Stadium in Nelspruit, South Africa.

The Peoples’ Elephant won the contest 4-1 on aggregate having edged out the South African Division One club 2-0 in the first leg a week earlier at the Enyimba International Stadium, Aba.

Also, Rangers edged past Kara of Togo 1-0 to go through on the away goals rule.

The Togolese champions won the first leg playoff 2-1, before Rangers rallied back to win 1-0 in Enugu on Sunday.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]