Nigerian players abroad: Umar hits goal No.7 in Serbia
•Okereke also on target in Belgium

ENGLAND

Alex Iwobi (Everton)

Alex Iwobi played for 72 minutes as Everton played out a goalless draw with Tottenham on Sunday in the English Premier League.

The 23-year-old forward has made nine EPL appearances for the Toffees, who currently languish in the relegation zone after 11 games.

Wilfred Ndidi, Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City)

Wilfred Ndidi made his ninth EPL appearance of the season for Leicester City in their 2-0 win over Crystal Palace.

The Nigeria international played the entire duration of the game. Ndidi has scored two goals in the league this season but his compatriot, Kelechi Iheanacho, was an unused substitute for the game and he is yet to feature in the league this season for the Foxes.

Leon Balogun (Brighton)

Defender Leon Balogun was not listed in Brighton’s 2-0 win over Norwich on Saturday in the English Premier League. The Nigerian international is yet to feature for the Seagulls in the EPL this season.

Isaac Success (Watford)

Isaac Success was an unused substitute in Watford’s 2-1 home loss to Chelsea in the EPL on Saturday. Success has played just 34 minutes for the Hornets this season in two appearances.

SPAIN

Kenneth Omeruo, Chidozie Awaziem (Leganes)

Chidozie Awaziem started from the substitute’s bench for Leganes in their 1-1 draw at home to Eibar. His compatriot, Kenneth Omeruo, was not listed for the game.

Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal)

Samuel Chukwueze came on for Moi Gomez in the 63rd minute as Villarreal were held to a goalless draw by Athletic Bilbao in a La Liga game on Sunday at the Estadio de la Ceramica.

FRANCE

Victor Osimhen (Lille)

Victor Osimhen returned from a minor groin injury to make his 12th appearance for Lille in their 2-1 loss at Olympique Marseille on Saturday. Osimhen replaced Loic Remy in the 65th minute and was yellow carded in the 83rd minute for a foul. The Nigeria international has failed to score in his last five games and he is also yet to score an away goal this season for Lille.

ITALY

William Troost-Ekong (Udinese)

William Troost-Ekong made his eighth Serie A start for Udinese, who defeated Genoa 3-1 in a Serie A clash on Sunday game.

Ola Aina (Torino)

Ola Aina was on for the entire duration of the match as Torino lost 1-0 at home to champions Juventus in a Turin derby on Saturday in the Italian Serie A. The Nigerian international was cautioned in the 44th minute of the encounter. Aina has been capped nine times by the club this season.

Simeon Nwankwo (Crotone)

Nigeria striker, Simeon Nwankwo, was on for the entire duration of the match as Crotone lost 3-2 at home to Perugia on Saturday in an Italian Serie B fixture. Simy has scored seven goals in 11 appearances in the Italian second-tier league. Crotone currently occupies the fifth position in the league on 18 points three points behind league leaders Benevento.

GERMANY

Taiwo Awoniyi (Mainz)

It was a day to forget for Mainz and Nigeria striker, Taiwo Awonyi, as the visitors were thrashed 8-0 by high-flying RB Leipzig in the German Bundesliga on Saturday. Awoniyi was an unused substitute in the encounter.

Anthony Ujah (Union Berlin)

Anthony Ujah was an unused substitute in Union Berlin’s 1-0 win over Hertha Berlin on Saturday. Sebastian Polter scored the only goal of the encounter in the 87th minute to hand the home team their third win of the season. Ujah has scored once in eight appearances for Die Eisernen this season.

BELGIUM

Paul Onuachu, Stephen Odey (Genk)

Super Eagles striker, Paul Onuachu, and his compatriot, Stephen Odey, fired blanks as they were beaten 2-0 by Eupen in the Belgian Pro league on Saturday. Onuachu was on for the entire duration of the game while Odey replaced Mbwana Samatta in the 58th minute. Odey is yet to score a goal in five league appearances for the club while Onuachu has scored four goals in eight appearances.

David Okereke, Emmanuel Dennis (Club Brugge), Imoh Ezekiel (Kortrijk)

Super substitute, David Okereke, scored his seventh goal of the campaign for Club Brugge in their 3-0 win against Kortrijk in the Belgian Pro League on Saturday. Okereke made a 62nd-minute appearance, replacing Mbaye Diagne. His compatriot, Emmanuel Dennis, was unlisted for the game. For the visitors, Rio 2016 Olympics star Imoh Ezekiel featured for 18 minutes in the loss. Ezekiel is yet to score a goal in five appearances for Kortrijk this season.

TURKEY

Azubuike Okechukwu (İstanbul Başakşehir)

Nigeria U-23 captain, Azubuike Okechukwu, played 89 minutes in İstanbul Başakşehir’s goalless draw at Alanyaspor in the Turkish Super Lig on Saturday. The midfielder, who is set to join up with the U-23 team in Egypt was replaced by Demba Ba,.Okechukwu has appeared eight times for the club in the league this season.

Anthony Nwakaeme (Trabzonspor)

Anthony Nwakaeme fired blank in Trabzonspor’s 1-0 home loss to Goztepe. The striker failed to lift his team despite playing the entire duration of the game as they fell to their second loss of the season. His compatriots, Mikel Obi and Ogenyi Onazi, were unlisted for the game as they recover from injury. Nwakaeme has scored two goals in 10 appearances for the club this season.

PORTUGAL

Mikel Agu (Vitoria de Guimaraes)

Mikel Agu played all 90 minutes in Vitoria de Guimaraes’ 1-1 draw at Moreirense in the Portuguese Primeira Liga on Saturday. Agu who recently got a recall to the Super Eagles was yellow carded in the 62nd minute of the encounter. Agua has scored once in seven appearances for the club.

GREECE

Brown Ideye (Aris Thessaloniki)

Brown Ideye was on for the entire duration of the match in Aris Thessaloniki’s 1-1 draw against 10-man Panionos on Saturday in the Greece Super League.

SERBIA

Umar Sadiq (Partizan Belgrade)

Nigeria striker Sadiq Umar took his tally to seven this season after he scored in Partizan Belgrade’s 4-0 thrashing of third-placed Vojvodina at the Partisan stadium on Saturday.

The lanky striker also provided two assists in the win.

Umar scored the team’s fourth goal in the 69th minute after a brace from Bibras Natkho in the 29th and 43rd minutes. Sasa Zdjelar was also on target in the 48th minute. Umar was on for the entire duration of the game. He is currently the fifth top-scorer in the Serbian topflight division.

CZECH REPUBLIC

Peter Olayinka (Slavia Prague)

Peter Olayinka played 73 minutes in Slavia Prague’s 4-0 thumping of Banik Ostrava in the Czech Republic First League on Saturday. Olayinka was replaced by Mick Van Buren.

SOUTH AFRICA

Daniel Akpeyi (Chippa United)

Daniel Akpeyi was the hero for Kaizer Chiefs in the Telkom Knockout quarter-final on Saturday as he saved two penalties in Chiefs 4-2 penalty win over bitter rivals Orlando Pirates in a Soweto derby. Akpeyi’s super saves kept the PSL table toppers in the game for 120 minutes. The score was 2-2 after extra time.

SCOTLAND

Joe Aribo, Sheyi Ojo (Glasgow Rangers)

Super Eagles midfielder, Joe Aribo, made his ninth league start for Glasgow Rangers, who dismantled managerless Hearts 3-0 in the last four of the Scottish League Cup.

Filip Helander strike and Alfredo Morelos’ second-half double ensured Steven Gerrard’s side qualify for the final billed for December 8 at Hampden.

Aribo was subbed on for Ryan Kent in the 66th minute of the win. His compatriot, Sheyi Ojo, came off for Jemaine Defoe in the 82nd minute for his ninth SPL game of the season.

Rangers will face holders Celtic in their first final since 2016 after dismantling managerless Hearts in the last four of the Scottish League Cup.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]