Kaizer Chiefs fans thank Akpeyi after penalty heroics
Johnny Edward

Fans of Kaizer Chiefs have praised their Nigerian goalkeeper, Daniel Akpeyi, for his penalty heroics that saw the Chiefs advance to the semi-final of the 2019 Telkom Knockout, Sports Extra reports.

Akpeyi saved two penalties as Chiefs defeated the Orlando Pirates 4-2 on penalties in Saturday’s 2019 Telkom Knockout quarter-final clash at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban.

The game had earlier ended 2-2 after extra time.

One fan, @Slenda_M, wrote, “Dear Nigeria, thank you for Akpeyi. As KaizerChiefs fans we appreciate him very much.”

While another @Matome_Kay wrote, “To all fellow Chiefs fans who trolled, mocked and called Akpeyi all sorts of names, I’m expecting your hearty apologies under this tweet as of now. Swallow your pride and applaud the man.”

“Can we appreciate the Chiefs goalkeeper Akpeyi, again?,” Mbaliyezwe Ndlela wrote.

“We have found a great goalkeeper here. Akpeyi will give Khune a very good competition. He is slowly replacing Alisson,” John Matsolo added.

“Akpeyi has proven to be reliable when it matters, I love and respect Khune as a player but with Khune between the post we would not be here today…plus he’s not reliable, he’s injury-prone.

“Akpeyi is on form, there’s absolutely no reason to bench him for Khune..Khune should be benched,” Victor Makhasi tweeted.

Chiefs will host Maritzburg United in the first semi-final encounter of the lucrative cup competition while Mamelodi Sundowns will be away to Lamontville Golden Arrows in the second semi-final fixture.

Chiefs are chasing their first silverware of the season

Akpeyi’s impressive performance for Chiefs this season has earned him a recall back to the Super Eagles squad for this month’s 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Benin Republic and Lesotho.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]