Super 4: Debutants Queens target upset against Angels
The Nigeria Women’s Professional League Super 4 final takes place on Sunday (today) with a lot at stake as favourites Rivers Angels battle debutants Confluence Queens for the prestigious title at the Agege Stadium, Lagos.

Adamawa Queens battle champions Bayelsa Queens in the third-place game.

Arit Usang was the star of the day for Confluence Queens on Friday as her brace helped her side overcome Adamawa Queens 2-0 to qualify for the Super 4 final.

In the second semi-final, Rivers Angels goalkeeper Chiamaka Nnadozie saved two penalties to help the former champions advance to the final at the expense of Bayelsa Queens, after full time ended goalless.

Coach of Confluence Queens, Whyte Ogbonda, is confident his side can cause another upset, after reaching a historic final on their first appearance.

“We are not afraid of any team, rather we are the most feared among the quartet. The pressure is not on us but on former champions, Rivers Angels, who would work round the clock to sustain their high reputations. It’s an advantage for us as we shall freely exhibit our talents while the giants exercise extra caution in their games.

“Our aim is to win the competition in our first attempt. Our mission in Lagos is to cause upsets and we aren’t done yet. Rivers Angels are a good side but the harder they come, the harder they will fall.”

The ex-Ibom Angels and Rivers Angels coach added, “We have prepared the players adequately for the task ahead, they are hungry and understand the task at hand. I am optimistic my players will deliver the goods.”

The winners will travel to Spain for a one-week training tour, the Nigeria Women’s Football League chairperson, Aisha Falode, said.

“It’s the first time, we had two teams each from the northern part of the country and two from the Niger Delta in the Super 4. And I’m happy with the improved standard of play displayed by all the teams so far, the final and third-place games will even be better,” Falode added.

Sports minister Sunday Dare and Minister for Women’s Affairs Pauline Tallen, as well as the Edo State Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu are among top dignitaries expected to grace the closing ceremony at the Agege Stadium today.

The champions will go home with a cash prize of N3m, the runners-up get N2m, while the third-place side will receive N1m.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]