Eaglets vow to bounce back in Brazil
Ebenezer Bajela

Golden Eaglets duo Divine Nwachukwu and Olawale Peter expressed their disappointment following their 2-1 defeat to Australia in their last Group B match at the ongoing U-17 World Cup in Brazil, adding that the team would strive to bounce back in their next game.

Nigeria already booked a place in the round of 16 as victory over Hungary and Ecuador ensured they topped the group with six points before falling to the Joeys on Friday night.

The victory was the first for Trevor Morgan’s side at the tournament, having suffered a 2-1 loss to Ecuador before a 2-2 draw with Hungary.

Speaking after the game, second half substitute Nwachukwu said, “It’s a bad one for us (the loss). We lost 2-1 against Australia, it is not a good result for us. We’ve been the defending champions for five times so much is expected from us.

“Nigerians and the coaches are not happy with us, the players and I hope we bounce back in our next match in the knockout stages. We hope to play well and make our country Nigeria proud, because we believe we can do better than this.

“Today saw the worst part of our game but we believe in the knock out stage we will make Nigeria and our families proud.”

Olawale, who put the team back on level terms before the break, added,

“I’m not happy with the result even though I scored, because the goal wasn’t enough. We were not able to convert most of the chances we created and we hope in our next games, we will be able to take our chances, do better and progress.

“It wasn’t really a bad game but I am certain that we will do better in our next game.”

Nigeria’s next game in the round of 16 will be on Tuesday against the third-best losers from Group A, C or D.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]