Lagos set to host Final 8 –NBBF board member
Ebenezer Bajela

Nigeria Basketball Federation board member, Suraj Yussuf, has assured that all is set for the 2019 NBBF Men’s Premier League Final 8 which will take place from 12 to 17 of November at Indoor Sports Hall of the National Stadium, Lagos.

The tournament also known as the 2019 President Cup Final 8 will decide the league champions and Nigeria’s representatives in the group stage of the inaugural edition of the NBA-FIBA Basketball League.

Speaking with Saturday Punch, Yussuf said that everything is in place for the Final 8 and it promises to be hitch free.

“I can assure you that everything is in place for the Final 8 in Lagos,” he said.

“After series of deliberation, we picked Lagos and everything is good to go and it is going to be an exciting time. But you (journalists) all know that we can’t do it alone, we need you to get the best out of the tournament.”

Yussuf added that the winner will represent the country in the maiden edition of the NBA-Africa Basketball League.

“The winner of the tournament will represent Nigeria at the newly introduced NBA-Africa Basketball League which is a collaboration between NBA and FIBA Africa, it involves 10 African countries where they all play home and away.”

In Group A, Rivers Hoopers coached by Ogoh Odaudu is grouped alongside Lagos Islanders, Nigeria Army Rockets and Benue Braves. While Group B will see Kwara Falcons, Niger Potters, Defenders of Abuja and Raptors of Lagos battle for supremacy.

According to the competition’s format, all teams will qualify for the quarter finals with teams paired according to their final group stage standing from the first phase in Ilorin.

Hoopers of Port Harcourt and Defenders qualified and represented Nigeria at the now rested FIBA Men Club Championship in 2018.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]