FG should let NFF officials face corruption trial – Dalung
Sodiq Oyeleke

Former Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Solomon Dalung, has warned that officials of the Nigeria Football Federation accused of financial mismanagement should not be shielded from investigation and trial.

In an exclusive interview with The PUNCH, Dalung cautioned that more problems would be created in the federation if the ongoing alleged corruption cases were not resolved.

The Federal Government on November 5 withdrew the corruption charges against five officials of the NFF – president, Amaju Pinnick; secretary-general, Sanusi Mohammed; 1st vice president, Seyi Akinwumi; the 2nd vice president, Shehu Dikko and an executive member, Yusuff Fresh.

They were arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission in May on 18-count charges, including alleged misappropriation of the sums of $8.4m and N4bn belonging to the football body.

Apart from the withdrawn case, some of the NFF officials are also being investigated by officials of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission for “having more than they could have earned.”

No fewer than 15 properties belonging to Pinnick, Yusuf, Dikko and Sanusi were seized during the first phase of the ICPC investigation.

Dalung said, “Any attempt to disrupt the court process will only create more problems and crisis in the federation and even in football. If you are going to scuttle the process, where will you place Nigeria’s resolve to fight corruption?

“The best is to allow the investigation to be concluded. If they are vindicated, we will celebrate them. But an attempt to scuttle the process is suggesting that there is cover up. That cover-up is dampening to the image of the government.”

He also argued that the lingering trial was putting the NFF officials under pressure, saying that the withdrawal of the case may result to wrong accusations.

Dalung said, “I will appeal to all those interested to allow the investigation to run its natural cause so that we will know the truth about the issue. This will keep putting the people under investigation under serious pressure.

“They might be innocent but because of the cover-up, trying to stop the process and employing ‘gorilla tactics’, using people in government, traditional rulers to try to attack the investigation will always put the people in bad light.

“Nigerians will be tempted to assume that these people are guilty and they may be innocent. The investigation should be allowed to reveal the truth of the matter.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]