Boxers talk tough ahead of GOtv Boxing Night
Boxers for the maiden GOtv Boxing Night Mini have been speaking of their preparations ahead of the event on Saturday at the Rowe Park Sports Complex, Yaba, Lagos.

Some of the boxers scheduled to be in action are Rilwan “Real One” Oladosu, the West African Boxing Union lightweight champion; Rilwan “Baby Face” Babatunde, WABU welterweight champion; Waheed “Showmax” Shogbamu, Ola Adebakin and Cynthia “Omo Bobby” Ogunsemilore.

Oladosu, who is billed to take on Adebakin in a national lightweight challenge, declared himself ready, willing and able to see off his opponent without fuss.

“I am unstoppable. Tell Adebakin that he will see hell. I don’t even need to exert myself. I’m sufficiently prepared and he’d feel the full force of my preparation,” he said.

Adebakin, however, admitted that he was an underdog, but vowed to inflict the first defeat on the WABU champion as a professional boxer.

“Real One might be better known, but that will count for nothing when we step into the ring. He isn’t familiar with me, but did know him well, including his weaknesses. I’m ready to exploit this and put him where he belongs: on the canvas,” he bragged.

WABU welterweight champion, Rilwan “Baby Face” Babatunde, has issued a strong warning to his opponent, Dennis “The Range” Mba.

“I’ve seen him boast in media reports, but he’ll be sorry at the end of the fight. He’d be treated like every other opponent who’s been foolish enough to face me,” he said.

Waheed “Showmax” Shogbamu and Semiu “Jagaban” Olopade have similarly swapped boasts, with the former vowing to leave his opponent in tears and blood.

Also, Ogunsemilore, who is billed to take on take on Omowunmi “Mummy’s Pet” Akinsanya in a national super featherweight challenge, said she expects to win the bout and improve her fight record.

“I am well prepared for this fight and I am primed to ensure Akinsanya continues to remain a “Mummy’s Pet” in the ring. I really need the win in order to show that my nascent boxing career is really progressing,” she said.

.Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]