We didn’t panic after Squirrels’ early goal – Rohr
Johnny Edward

Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr has heaped praises on his team after their 2-1 victory over Benin Republic in a 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium on Wednesday evening and was also quick to take a swipe at the Squirrels for their defensive approach.

Stephane Sessegnon stunned the home fans with the opener in the fifth minute but Victor Osimhen restored parity for Nigeria from the spot after Ola Aina was fouled in the box.

Samuel Kalu sealed the win for Rohr’s side with a stunning strike in the 63rd minute after he waltzed through Benin’s defence.

With the victory, the Eagles now lead Group L with three points after Lesotho and Sierra Leone played out a 1-1 draw in Freetown.

“We are happy about this victory, we knew before the match that it would be very difficult because Benin have one of the best organisation defensively,” Rohr told a post-match conference after the game in Uyo.

“They (Benin) have a good team and unfortunately, we conceded an early goal which was a shock for us and we had to recover from this and with our attitude, we had to make them tire out to get the result.

“The players showed great reaction coming from a goal down in front of a half-full stadium to win.

“We had opportunities but scoring more goals against Benin but they were too defensive.

“Now have a new style of playing – which involves a lot of movement, quick passing, and one touch. We could have scored a third goal but I’m happy with the performance of my team considering that you came from a goal down to win 2-1.

He also praised Ola Aina and Samuel Kalu, who were impressive on their return to the starting line-up but didn’t include keeper Daniel Akpeyi, who returned after being left out in their last two friendlies.

“I’m happy to see that the two changes I made for the game, bringing in Ola Aina and Samuel Kalu to the team did well. It is important to know that there’s competition for places in the team.

“The early goal did not affect us. Nobody was in panic, the bench and the players also did not quake. The players are professionals.”

On the choice of a permanent home ground for the Eagles Rohr said,” We are good anywhere in Nigeria. We had good hospitality in Asaba with a full capacity stadium. Also in Port Harcourt, we had a good game but under a difficult condition, but we are happy to be back playing in Uyo.

“They have good facilities here, unfortunately, the match was 5pm. I know if it was on a weekend the stadium will be full to capacity.”

Next up for the Super Eagles is a clash with Likuena (Crocodiles) of Lesotho in Day 2 of the qualifying campaign, at the Maseru-Setsoto Stadium on Sunday.

.Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]