IAAF withdraws Olatoye’s African Games gold, bronze
Sodiq Oyeleke

Gold and bronze medals won by Sade Olatoye for Nigeria at the 2019 African Games have been withdrawn over the country’s non-compliance with IAAF nationality law.

This is coming few weeks after Nigerian athletes faced a disqualification scare over a mix-up among officials of Team Nigeria at the World Athletics Championships in Qatar, Doha.

Olatoye won gold in shot put and bronze in the hammer throw to help Nigeria finish top in the track and field events in the African Games.

At the Doha championships, she also represented Nigeria in shot put and finished in 13th with a best throw of 16.97m.

But The PUNCH gathered that Olatoye was not cleared by the IAAF National Review Panel before representing Nigeria.

Though her parents are Nigerians, Olatoye was born in the US in 1997. She earlier represented the US at the 2016 IAAF World U-20 Athletics Championships, Poland before deciding to switch allegiance.

In line with IAAF rules, the Athletics Federation of Nigeria was expected to secure a change of nationality approval for Olatoye before she represented Nigeria.

Olatoye represented Nigeria at the African Games held between August 19 and 31 in Morocco, Rabat, but according to IAAF, Olatoye is not eligible to represent Nigeria in any international competition until September 17.

Our correspondent learnt after the 2018/19 IAAF ratified rules, athletes were required to get the athletics body’s approval before switching their allegiance to represent another country in an international senior competition.

The rules saddled national federations (AFN in the case of Nigeria) with the responsibility of obtaining nationality approval for athletes, who were switching to represent them.

Part of the rule read, “An athlete who has represented a member in an International Competition shall not be eligible to represent another member in an International Competition. Alternatively, an athlete may represent another member with the approval of the IAAF.

“The burden of proof in establishing whether an athlete is eligible in accordance with this rule rests with the member and the athlete concerned. The member must provide the IAAF with valid/ authentic documentation demonstrating the athlete’s eligibility.”

When our correspondent checked the IAAF website on Thursday, the world athletics body had erased Olatoye’s record at the African Games and disqualified her from the event.

On the Nigerian athlete’s eligibility, IAAF said, “She was eligible to represent USA until September 16, 2019 – (but now) eligible to represent Nigeria in National Representative Competitions from September 17, 2019.”

Efforts to reach officials of the AFN on the matter were unsuccessful as calls put across to them were not picked.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]