Oyakhilome: The late bloomer dazzling chess world
Ebenezer Bajela

David Oyakhilome (FIDE ID 8508739) has been making waves in Nigerian chess recently.

The 18-year-old David is the twin brother of Daniel Oyakhilome, another rising talent in the country. Breaking into the scene a bit late, compared to the likes of Emmanuel and Micheal Osadebe, Daniel Anwulii and Isaac Okeke, Oyakhilome has become a force to reckon with and is currently one of the best chess players in the country in the junior category.

Speaking with Sports Extra, Oyakhilome said he never had the opportunity to play chess until he was 15 years old.

“I didn’t start playing chess until I was 15, which was about three years ago and I have been able to rise to prominence and I am now one of the strongest junior chess players in Nigeria, which is under 18 and 20,” he said.

“And I am confident of climbing up the ladder in no time soon and become the best in the country.”

So passionate about the game, Oyakhilome picked up the pieces of game and practice to become a star and this he revealed to Sports Extra.

“I started playing chess when I was in Kings College, where I attended my secondary school. I saw some of my seniors playing the game and I will watch them make some moves. At first, it didn’t make much sense to me but later I started developing interest in it with my brother. We learnt some few moves from them and when we were in senior class, we improved.

“My brother and I started training at home and before we realised it, we understood the moves and we enjoyed it so much.”

Oyakhilome has participated in several chess tournaments in Nigeria and was one of the standout players at the CPAN League. He is currently among the junior chess players preparing to graduate to play masters to help them garner experience.

“Playing chess has helped me because at a point when I was in junior secondary school my results were not good but since I started playing chess it has opened my head to new ideas and I started topping my class. It is so amazing because playing chess has really transformed me and has helped me a lot.”

Like every other sportsperson, Oyakhilome is not without a challenge: his major obstacle is the distance between him and his coach.

The youngster said he had been relying on e-books sent to him by his coach to practice.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]