How I rescued my family from poverty – Osimhen
Sodiq Oyeleke

Super Eagles striker Victor Osimhen has narrated how his emergence as a professional footballer saved his family members from difficulties.

The Nigerian striker, who plays for Lille in Ligue 1, said life was tough for his siblings after his mother’s death and father’s joblessness.

According to him, his father lost his job three months after his mother died.

To survive, Osimhen said his brother hawked sports newspapers, while sister sold oranges in the street.

The 20-year-old player also said he earlier sold bottled water in Lagos traffic to help his family survive.

To also survive, the footballer narrated that he once joined his friends to scavenge for crampons and shoes at the former Olusosun dumpsite in Oregun-Ojota area of Lagos.

But after emerging as a successful footballer, Osimhen said his family members are now living the life they deserved.

Though he didn’t state how large his family members live at present, Osimhen said his father and siblings now have enough to eat.

“It was very difficult, when I lost my mother, it became tougher after my father lost his job and everything was very hard for us.

“We did not have enough to eat, but now I can give my family everything they want, since I became a professional. I’ve been able to quickly break the deadlock and give them the life they deserve,” Osimhen told BeIN Sport.

[READ ALSO] Ronaldo: I’d only play Champions League

After helping Nigeria lift the 2015 FIFA U-17 World Cup in Chile, Osimhen sealed a move to Bundesliga side Wolfsburg where he played 14 top-flight games in two seasons.

He struggled to establish himself in the German city and thus, secured a move to Belgium, where he played the entire 2018/19 season and scored 12 goals in 25 league matches.

Subsequently, he was signed by Lille as Nicolas Pepe’s replacement, who had moved to Arsenal in the off-season.

With seven goals in nine Ligue 1 matches so far this season, Osimhen has apparently found his feet in France.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]