Iheanacho scores on first start after nine month
Johnny Edward

Kelechi Iheanacho scored on his first start in nine months for Leicester City, who defeated Burton Albion 3-1 in Tuesday’s round of 16 Carabao Cup clash at the Pirelli Stadium, Sports Extra reports.

The goal was his second strike in his second appearance this season for the Foxes.

Iheanacho, whose only game this season was a four minutes cameo appearance in Leicester City’s 4-0 win over Luton Town in the fourth round, in which he scored, struck the opener for Brendan Rodgers’ side after latching on to a pass from Youri Tielemans.

Tielemans added the second in the 20th minute after he finished off a brilliant move from Dmitri Praet but Liam Boyce pulled one back for Burton Albion two minutes after the restart. Iheanacho was substituted in the 66th minute for Harvey Barnes.

James Maddison secured Leicester’s berth in the quarter-finals, scoring the third goal six minutes after coming on for Dennis Praet in the 83rd minute. Wilfred Ndidi also came on for Hamza Choudhury with two minutes left to play.

The 23-year-old Iheanacho has now made 12 appearances in the competition and has found the back of the net six times.

At Goodison Park, Alex Iwobi made his third start in the competition for Everton, who beat Watford 2-0 to advance to the last eight of the competition. Mason Holgate and Richarlison were on target for the Toffees.

Iwobi has scored once in 14 appearances in the Carabao Cup since he made his debut during the 2015/16 season.

In the French League Cup, Nigeria international, Josh Maja, scored his first goal of the season for Bordeaux, who edged Dijon 1-0.

Maja headed in Samuel Kalu’s cross in the eighth minute to hand hosts Bordeaux the lead.

In Serie B, Russia 2018 World Cup striker Simy Nwankwo bagged his seventh league goal of the season from the penalty spot as Crotone lost 2-1 to Chievo Verona on Tuesday.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]