CAF approves Uyo for Eagles, Benin clash
’Tana Aiyejina

The Confederation of African Football has approved the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, Uyo as match venue for the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier between the Super Eagles and Benin Republic on November 13, our correspondent has learnt.

The continental football body also approved 5pm for the kick-off time of the encounter between the two West African sides.

“All the argument about where the game will be played has been resolved after CAF confirmed Uyo to host the match against Benin Republic. Match time is 5pm,” an Eagles team official said.

The Nigeria Football Federation had reportedly fancied the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin City and the Stephen Keshi Stadium in Asaba, ahead of Uyo, which had hosted majority of the country’s high-profile games in recent times.

Reports claimed the Uyo stadium was in a bad state ahead of the AFCON qualifier but findings by our correspondent showed that CAF chose the venue because it was in a better shape than the Benin and Asaba stadiums.

While the Benin stadium is undergoing renovation ahead of the 2020 National Sports Festival, Eagles coach Gernot Rohr and his players have repeatedly complained about the poor pitch of the Asaba stadium.

It was learnt that the NFF has written to the Akwa Ibom State Governor Emmanuel Udom seeking the approval of the stadium, popularly known as ‘Nest of Champions’ for the qualifier.

But a top government official in the state, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the governor was yet to approve the request.

“I think an attempt (by the NFF) has been made but I can’t tell you if it’s been approved,” our source said.

“The greatest problem we have here is blackmail. That (Uyo) stadium was closed down on August 7, a day after the FIFA inspection (for the 2021 U-20 Women’s World Cup). Akwa United can’t train inside the stadium, nobody has entered there. When the Vice President came for the anniversary of our state, the governor did not go to the stadium, even on Independence Day, we didn’t use it.

“And we think it’s the highest point of blackmail for someone to say that the stadium is always hired out to fun-seekers and partygoers.

“I don’t think even the governor will be happy with that. Somebody did that in order to sell the Asaba venue. If they grant Eagles use of that stadium, it will be a miracle because we are feeling bad about it.

“When we went for Obaseki’s burial in Benin, Pinnick inspected the Ogbemudia stadium, they were still planting grass. The players are complaining about Asaba pitch and Asaba rejected them for the U-23. Now they are running to Uyo after the blackmail. We felt very bad about it because the stadium has been under lock since August.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]