Chinasa Ukandu seeks votes for WorldRemit, Arsenal Future Stars coaching
Nigeria’s Chinasa Mandy Ukandu has been named one of the eight finalists selected by WorldRemit and Arsenal for the ‘Future Stars’ coaching programme.

The finalists, comprising four male and four female coaches will face a public vote to determine who will train with Arsenal Football Development coaches in London.

To that effect, voting has been declared open on and it will continue until 11:59 pm GMT on 11th November.

This was made known via a Press release distributed by APO Group on behalf of WorldRemit.

The release stated that a panel of judges from Arsenal and its official online money transfer partner, WorldRemit, have selected eight coaches as finalists for their Future Stars coaching programme.

“The eight finalists will now compete in a public vote on www.FutureStars.WorldRemit.com for the chance to attend a personalised training programme with Arsenal Football Development coaches in London,” it added.

The eight finalists are:

Female Future Stars finalists

Chinasa Ukandu from Lagos State, Nigeria

Beldine Lilian Achieng Odemba from Nairobi, Kenya

Joan Nabisenke from Kampala, Uganda

Vivian Johana Pirateque Garzón from Bogotá, Colombia.

Male Future Stars finalists

Bakit Isaac Agogo from Gulu, Uganda

Feisal Abdi Hassan from Nairobi, Kenya

Luis Alejandro Castañeda Vargas from Bogotá, Colombia

Samuel Taylor from Accra, Ghana.

Talking about Ms Ukandu‘s qualification for the programme, the statement reads, “Chinasa and her friends provide young people with an opportunity to develop football and life skills at Help The Talent Academy, having completed phase three of the Premier Skills Coach Educators Course (an initiative by the English Premier League and British Council) in 2015.

“Chinasa coaches boys and girls aged 5 to 16 and, if she were to win the training session with Arsenal Football Development, she would organise a community coach training session on her return home to share her knowledge and experiences.”

The Future Stars programme was developed by WorldRemit and Arsenal to celebrate the positive impact that grassroots youth football coaches have on their communities, helping the children they train to develop life skills both on and off the pitch.

Now in its second edition, the Future Stars programme received over 1,400 online applications this year from across Africa and the Americas.

From these entries, a panel of judges selected 20 semi-finalists to receive Arsenal shirts for their youth team as recognition of their hard work within their communities.

The judging panel then narrowed these 20 semi-finalists down to eight finalist coaches — four male and four female.

Two winners — one male and one female — will be chosen by a public vote to fly to London for a personalised training programme with Arsenal Football Development coaches.

Andrew Stewart, Managing Director Middle East & Africa at WorldRemit said: “Together with Arsenal, we set up the Future Stars programme to recognise football coaches within these communities who are dedicated to supporting and lifting up others.

“Our eight finalists’ stories are testament to the transformative impact that football can have on young people.

“We are delighted to celebrate their success and wish them all the best in the public vote!”

Simon McManus, Head Coach at Arsenal Football Development, said: “Through our community initiatives in London and abroad, we work hard to promote greater diversity in football and positively impact the lives of young people through sport.

“When developing this year’s Future Stars programme with WorldRemit, it was important for us to highlight the benefits of encouraging more women into the sport, both as players and as coaches. The eight finalists we have chosen all stood out to us due to their passion and commitment to using football to bring young people from all walks of life together.”