NWPL Super 4: Queens, Amazons eye wins
Sodiq Oyeleke

Coaches of teams participating in the Nigeria Women’s Premier League Super 4 have expressed optimism that their sides would emerge victorious in the tournament.

The 2018/19 NWPL Super 4 began in Lagos at the Agege Stadium on Tuesday with the arrival of the participating teams – Rivers Angels, Bayelsa Queens, Adamawa Queens and Confluence Queens.

The winners of the tournament would be crowned as the 2018/19 NWFL season’s champions.

Coach of Confluence Queens, Whyte Ogbonda, whose team will be making an historic appearance in the tournament, said his players were out to cause upsets against their opponents.

He said, “We are not afraid of any team, rather we are the most feared among the quartet. We are relaxed and coming to Lagos to enjoy ourselves with our traditional style of football aimed at winning the trophy in our first attempt at the NWPL Super 4.

“We are aware the competition showcases the best women’s clubs in Nigeria and is not a cheap competition. However, the harder our opponents come, the harder they will fall.”

Bayelsa Queens head coach, Moses Aduku, noted that his squad were determined to repeat what they achieved last year, defeating Nasarawa Amazons in the final of the Super 4.

“We would be playing against the best sides in the league and it means we have to be at our best. I am optimistic we will retain the title,” he added.

Rivers Angels’ head coach, Edwin Okon, said, “On our part we will continue to fight for the coveted trophy and other trophies in the land. We are doing our home work well to ensure we put up good performance in Lagos, hoping that mother luck will smile at us.”

NWPL Super 4 field action will commence on Friday among the four teams, while the third place and final matches will hold on Sunday at the ‘Soccer Temple’ – Agege Stadium.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]