Dennerby to resume as India coach next week
Sodiq Oyeleke

Barring any last minute hitch, former Super Falcons coach, Thomas Dennerby, is expected to resume as the coach of the India U-17 women’s team next week.

When he resumes office, Dennerby will be the first foreigner appointed as coach of an Indian women’s football team.

The PUNCH gathered that the Swedish coach was appointed by the All-India Football Federation barely four days after resigning as Nigerian national women’s coach.

Dennerby had on October 10 officially announced the termination of his contract with the Nigeria Football Federation.

The resignation came after the coach complained about lack of accommodation and undue influence in the course of doing his work.

Though the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, made efforts to reconcile the coach and the NFF, Dennerby refused to show up for the reconciliatory meetings.

In a report by the Times of India, the official unveiling of Dennerby as the India U-17 coach is being delayed by paperwork.

“Dennerby is expected to reach India latest by the first week of November,” the India-based newspaper reported.

Upon resumption, the former Falcons’ coach would have Alex Ambrose, who is currently in-charge of India’s U-15 women’s team, as his assistant.

The PUNCH had on September 26 reported that Dennerby was being considered for the India job.

“The Technical Committee was very impressed with Dennerby’s interview. His immense experience was the deciding factor. Having coached Nigeria and Sweden, he definitely will make a huge difference. For the AIFF to get a coach of his calibre for the women’s U-17 team is a great achievement,” TOI reported.

While in charge of the Falcons, Dennerby won the 2018 African Women’s Cup of Nations in Ghana and later steered the team to the Women’s World Cup knockout stage for the first time in 20 years in France in June.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]