Minister pledges to resolve federations’ crises
… as Doha 2019 review committee submits report

Sodiq Oyeleke

The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has expressed readiness to resolve crises rocking several sports federations in the country.

Dare said this on Monday in Abuja at the presentation of the report on Nigeria’s poor performance at the 2019 IAAF World Athletics Championships in Doha by the Prof. Ken Angwueje-led committee.

The minister warned federations against frustrating efforts by the sports ministry to exercise its functions.

He said, “There is no federation that is bigger than the sports ministry; we have the supervisory rights and the oversight on behalf of Nigerians.

“We appreciate the work of the federations but we will not exchange our oversight power to any federation where we think that the federation is going wrong.

“We will move to resolve all the crises rocking all the sports federations and down the road, we will work together to achieve the goal,” he said.

Dare said Nigeria’s poor performance in Doha needed to be reviewed to save the country from another embarrassment at the Tokyo 2020 Olympics and subsequent competitions.

“Doha gave us the opportunity to do a surgery in view of the 2020 Olympic Games, because we are determined to turn the page on sports development in the country and it starts now,” he added.

Presenting 10 copies of the report, the chairman of the committee, Angwueje, said the committee had “examined the facts, established the truths and suggested measures to prevent a re-occurrence of the less than impressive performance of Team Nigeria at the 17th IAAF World Championship in Doha, while also suggesting ways forward.”

The minister inaugurated the committee on October 21 to appraise the causes and factors responsible for Nigeria’s poor outing at the just-concluded World Athletics Championship in Doha, Qatar where Nigeria won only one bronze medal.

The committee had Professor Ken Angwueje as its chairman. Other members are Dr. Umar Bindir, Rotimi Obajimi, Ibrahim Galadima, Dare Esan, Mary Onyali, Falilat Ogunkoya and Mrs. Maria Wophill as secretary.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]