Doha: AFN orders new probe, alleges indiscipline
Sodiq Oyeleke

The Athletics Federation of Nigeria has asked its disciplinary committee to probe indiscipline among Team Nigeria’s athletes at the 2019 IAAF World Athletics Championships in Doha, Qatar.

This is as members of the review committee set up by the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development are expected to submit their report on factors responsible for the poor performance of Team Nigeria at Doha on Monday (today).

In a press statement after its emergency board meeting, the AFN alleged that there was indiscipline among some of its athletes.

The statement, which was made available to our correspondent on Sunday, was signed by the AFN’s Media Committee chairman, Amanzi Marcus.

“Cases of indiscipline involving Team Nigeria especially as witnessed at the IAAF World Athletics Championships in Doha, Qatar were handed over to the Disciplinary Committee headed by retired Deputy Inspector General of Police, Sani Mohammed, for adjudication,” the statement read in part.

A board member of the AFN, who spoke on condition of anonymity, accused Blessing Okagbare of indiscipline at Doha, alleging that she “refused to clearly state the race she wanted to take part in.”

“Okagbare didn’t clearly tell us which race she wanted to run. She made it difficult for us to know what to do. When the issue of disqualifying Divine Oduduru happened, we asked Okagbare to compete in the women’s 100m, but she refused,” the AFN member said.

Though Okagbare’s name was not mentioned, one of the resolutions at the emergency meeting was to replace “ageing athletes”.

“Board members stressed the need to organise more grassroots athletics programmes as a way of replacing ageing athletes,” the statement added.

Meanwhile, President of the AFN, Shehu Gusau, has announced a new sponsorship deal with PUMA, which kitted Team Nigeria in Doha.

He said PUMA will equally kit Team Nigeria to the Tokyo 2020 Olympics.

“There are new plans to seek more sponsors to conduct its activities especially now that the national trials has no sponsors, since the Cross River State Government pulled out more than four years ago,” he said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]