Okereke, Ideye are Eagles stars of the week
ENGLAND

Alex Iwobi (Everton), Leon Balogun (Brighton)

Alex Iwobi played for 72 minutes as Everton lost via a late Lucas Digne own goal to hand Brighton a 3-2 win in an English Premier League match on Saturday at the American Express Community Stadium. Iwobi was replaced by Dominic Calvert-Lewin, who had an instant impact, scoring the second goal for the Toffees. However, Iwobi’s compatriot, Leon Balogun, was an unused substitute in the game.

Wilfred Ndidi, Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City)

Wilfred Ndidi made his eighth appearance of the season for Leicester City in their 9-0 record win against Southampton at the St Mary’s Stadium on Saturday. The Nigerian international played the entire duration of the game. Ndidi has scored two goals in the league this season but his compatriot, Kelechi Iheanacho, was not listed for the game and is yet to feature in the league this season for the Foxes.

Semi Ajayi (West Brom)

Semi Ajayi was on for the entire duration of the game as 10-man West Brom struggled to a 2-2 draw at home to Charlton Athletic on Tuesday. Teenager Nathan Ferguson was shown a red card in the 67th minute, a situation that made things difficult for the home side. The Baggies failed to hold on to their lead as Josh Cullen equalised for the home team in the 94th minute from the penalty spot. Ajayi has scored two goals for the Baggies this season since joining from Rotherham United in the summer.

Oghenekaro Etebo (Stoke City)

Super Eagles midfielder, Oghenekaro Etebo, was not listed in Stoke City’s 2-0 loss at Millwall on Saturday in the Championships. The midfielder was a doubt for the fixture after sustaining an injury in the team’s midweek loss to Sheffield Wednesday. Etebo was taken off in the 21st minute and was replaced by Mark Duffy.

SPAIN

Ramon Azeez (Granada): Ramon Azeez played all 90 minutes for Granada as the Nazaries moved top of La Liga following their 1-0 win over Real Betis in Sunday’s clash. The midfielder, who helped Granada gain promotion from the second tier division, took advantage of the El Clasico being postponed to move up from sixth to top with 20 points from 10 games. Azeez has scored twice this season has made eight appearances this season.

Kenneth Omeruo, Chidozie Awaziem (Leganes)

Defender Chidozie Awaziem featured for Leganes as the team recorded their first win of the 2019/20 La Liga campaign in a 1-0 win over Real Mallorca. Martin Braithwaite scored the all-important goal in the 31st minute. Awaziem was a second-half substitute replacing Dimitrios Siovas in the 58th minute of the game. His compatriot, Kenneth Omeruo, was unlisted for the game.

Samuel Chuikwueze (Villarreal)

Samuel Chukwueze was a second-half substitute in Villarreal’s 4-1 home win against Deportivo Alaves on Friday in a Spanish La Liga fixture. The Nigerian international replaced Andre Anguissa in the 61st minute and was instrumental in changing the game. The tricky winger was fouled just outside the box with Javier Ontiveros converting the resulting free-kick for the team’s fourth goal.

GERMANY

Anthony Ujah (Union Berlin)

Nigerian striker, Anthony Ujah, played 24 minutes in Union Berlin’s 2-1 loss to defending champions Bayern Munich on Saturday. The striker replaced Marcus Ingvartsen in the 66th minute. Ujah has scored once in eight appearances for the club.

Taiwo Awoniyi (Mainz 05)

Taiwo Awoniyi was an unused substitute in Mainz 05’ 3-1 win over FC Koln in the German Bundesliga on Friday. Awoniyi is yet to score for the German side in four appearances.

Maduka Okoye (Fortuna Dusseldorf II): Maduka Okoye was dropped to the bench as his German Bundesliga U-23 outfit Fortuna Dusseldorf II lost 1-0 to Essen in a Regionalliga West fixture on Saturday.

The newly capped Super Eagles goalkeeper, who conceded three goals in his last game against SG Wattenscheid 09 last Saturday, has conceded 17 goals in seven appearances for the club this campaign, and he is without a clean sheet.

Okoye recently made his international debut for Nigeria in their friendly meeting against Brazil at the Singapore National Stadium earlier this month.

FRANCE

Victor Osimhen (Lille), Samuel Kalu, Josh Maja (Bordeaux)

Victor Osimhen made his 11th appearance of the season in a 3-0 win over Bordeaux on Saturday. Osimhen was replaced by Frenchman Loic Remy in the 58th minute after suffering an abductor injury. Osimhen has scored seven goals in 11 appearances. Osimhen is likely to be out of action for over seven days. However, his compatriot, Samuel Kalu, was on the losing end with Bordeaux. The Nigerian international replaced Ait Bennasser in the 64th minute. Josh Maja replaced Francois Kamano to make his ninth appearance. The midfielder has scored once this season.

Moses Simon (Nantes)

Moses Simon was on for the entire duration of the game as Nantes lost their fourth game of the season in Ligue 1. Simon has made eight appearances in the current season scoring twice. Wissam Ben Yedder scored the only goal of the encounter.

ITALY

Ola Aina (Torino): Super Eagles full-back, Ola Aina returned to Torino’s starting line-up in their 1-1 draw to Cagliari. Aina was replaced in the 79th minute in what was his eight Serie A appearances this season for the Bulls.

William Troost-Ekong (Udinese): William Troost-Ekong made his seventh Serie A start for 10-man Udinese who suffered a 7-1 humiliating loss away to Atalanta in a Serie A clash on Sunday game.

Simeon Nwankwo (Crotone)

Nigeria striker, Simeon Nwankwo, was the hero of the day for Crotone, scoring a brace in a 3-2 comeback win against Venezia in the Italian Serie B on Saturday. The 27-year-old striker takes his season goal tally to six in nine appearances. The striker scored his first in the 35th minute canceling out Mattia Aramu 10th minute strike before completing his brace in the 5th minute.

Greece

Brown Ideye (Aris Thessaloniki): Super Eagles striker Brown Ideye

scored his third league goal in eight games for Aris Thessaloniki, who edged Panetolikos 2-0 to move into the Championship play-off in the topflight division.

Ideye grabbed his side’s second goal in the 32nd minute from the penalty spot after Bruno Gama had shot Aris into the lead five minutes earlier.

BELGIUM

Emmanuel Dennis, David Okereke (Club Brugge): David Okereke ended his 13-game goal drought for Club Brugge, scoring an equaliser for his side in their 1-1 home draw with Standard Liege on Sunday.

Okereke, who last scored a league goal for Brugge in their 2-1 win over KV Oostende in August, drew his side level two minutes after the restart. Samuel Bastien had shot Standard Liege into the lead after five minutes.

The strike took Okereke’s tally to six in 17 games this term. Okereke compatriot, Emmanuel Dennis, was an unused substitute in the encounter.

SCOTLAND

Joe Aribo, Sheyi Ojo (Glasgow Rangers)

Super Eagles midfielder, Joe Aribo, made his eighth league start for Glasgow Rangers, who came from a goal down to beat Motherwell 2-1 on Sunday.

Aribo was subbed off for Alfredos Morelos in the 71st minute. His compatriot Ojo replaced Greg Stewart in the 65th minute for his eighth SPL game of the season. The win sees Celtic and Rangers remain neck and neck at the top of the Scottish Premier League table.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]