Iheanacho devastated after PA’s death
Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri

The death of David Nwachukwu will leave Leicester City striker Kelechi Iheanacho devastated, a neighbour of the late Nwachukwu, Paulcy Iwuala, has stated.

Nwachukwu, a Personal Assistant to Iheanacho, on Saturday died in an auto crash in Imo State.

Nwachukwu was one of the closest confidants of Iheanacho and is believed to have been in charge of all the footballer’s properties in Nigeria.

He hailed from Ohaji/Egbema area of Imo State, the same area with the footballer.

Iwuala said it would be hard for Iheanacho to bear Nwachukwu’s loss, due to their closeness.

Iwuala said, “This is very difficult to bear .He was a very good guy. He was my opposite door neighbour. We lived in the same estate. Kelechi Iheanacho would be devastated by this loss. They were very close. They grew up together. He virtually does everything for Kelechi Iheanacho in Nigeria. What a world!”

Another neighbor Abuoma Ozurigbo, said, “What a black Saturday. David Nwachukwu, Just yesterday (Friday) at our estate, we discussed how we were going to fly together to Abuja soon because your friend, Kelechi Iheanacho , is coming back. What a life. This one pains me badly.”

Iwuala described Nwachukwu, as a good guy who would be missed by everybody who knew him.

An eyewitness told our correspondent that the incident happened beside Alvana Modern Secondary School, along the Owerri-Onitisha Expressway in Owerri, the Imo State capital.

Nwachukwu, who was alone in his Pathfinder Jeep, was overspeeding when the crash occurred, our source added.

An unconfirmed source told our correspondent that the deceased was drunk while driving and was returning from a night club.

The source said the deceased ran into a stationery articulated vehicle and died on the spot.

His remains had been deposited in a morgue, our correspondent gathered.

When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu, confirmed the incident.

“It is confirmed. Preliminary investigation shows that it was as a result of overspeeding. It was a lone accident. He skidded off the tarred road and crashed.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]