De Rossi, Totti trained me at Roma –Umar
Partizan Belgrade striker Sadiq Umar was one of Nigeria’s star men, scoring four goals, as the national U-23 team claimed a bronze at the Rio 2016 Olympics Games in Rio. The big striker, on loan at Partizan from Roma, talks about his career that has seen him rise from the streets of Kaduna to the sophisticated life of Europe, in this interview with SOLAPE LAWAL-SOLARIN

How did it all begin?

Well, it is the same story for every young kid in Nigeria. The sport is real, we all wanted to play and dream of becoming footballers. I started the journey on the streets of Kaduna, where I grew up. It was an eventful one that took me to Abuja and finally, to where I am today.

Can you tell us more about your early football years in Kaduna?

I played for a local team called Kuzo Boys. We just go out as a group, you know, me and my teammates, to take part in local competitions. And I remember vividly that it was from one of these competitions that I got scouted by Muhammad Lawal, who facilitated my move to Future Football academy, Abuja in 2013.

Guess the big break came while you were in Abuja?

Yes! It was during my spell with Future Academy I got the big breakthrough that any aspiring young footballer dreams of. I can’t remember the tournament that we took part in, but I knew I was the highest goal scorer when Italian division two side, Spezia, came calling.

Your story is quite fascinating. Everything seems to have progressed well, are you saying you had no opposition from your parents?

Of course, I had. My mum most especially didn’t want me to play football. She was always breathing down my neck, ringing school and education into my ears. It was education and Islamic teaching classes for her. But, I was lucky to have a father that saw nothing wrong in my choice to be a footballer. I guess because he was also a footballer; he played for DIC (Bees) in Kaduna. So, he understood and supported my dreams.

So, can you tell us about your first experience outside Nigeria?

It was a new experience for me. I was a young man in pursuit of happiness and fulfilling my football dreams. Life in Italy? Well I got used to it, anyway. It was a gradual process, a step-by-step thing.

You were definitely alone in Italy. And at such a young age, did you feel nostalgic?

Really, I must tell you the truth, I never felt it. The fact I was in Italy and seeing my football career picking up erased all forms of fear and nostalgic feelings. I was just happy that finally, my dream was coming into fruition. And besides, my dad also motivated me each time we talked on the phone not to give up on my dreams. Fine, I missed my family, but not that much, dreams and ambition fueled my desire.

You started out with Spezia in Italy, how did the Giallorossi come in?

It was like a dream when it happened. Playing for Roma, one of Europe’s finest and Italy’s notable clubs really got me excited. I joined Roma after their youth team coach, father of Roma’s finest, Daniele De Rossi, spotted me and Nura Abdullahi in action for Spezia.

Interesting, De Rossi’s father spotted you. How can you describe his son, now playing for Boca Juniors in Argentina?

Daniele De Rossi is an amazing person. He is accessible and down to earth. He motivated and encouraged me back then. I just see him as a role model that young footballers should take a cue from.

De Rossi is Roma, but another player that stands for the Giallorossi is Francesco Totti. Can you tell us how ‘Il-Capitano” influenced you and your career?

Totti! He is just too humble. The fame, the popularity and the way he was idolised not only in Serie A, but on the world stage didn’t get into his head. Indirectly, his humility left a mark on me because I was left to reflect on his achievements, wealth and greatness. People might see him as a snub but, he is not. He talks to me, encourages the club’s youth team players. On a professional level, he is awesome, technically gifted and does everything on the ball with simplicity and accuracy.

You mentioned Nuru Abdullahi. He was your teammate at Roma, but has been plagued with injuries…

(Cuts in) Life is a different ball game, it is unpredictable you know. Nuru is a fantastic player, but it’s just unfortunate he is going through this. What can I say than to just appreciate God and for the career I have. Football could be harsh on us at times, but I know Nuru is strong and he will bounce back.

Roma is known to have demanding fans. The players have admitted the weight of pressure playing for the capital club. Did you feel the pressure while you were there?

Pressure is real, the fans are demanding, it’s the truth. The Lupi fans want wins every day, but I was lucky. I didn’t feel the pressure much because I was a youth player and the time I came into the first team, I just enjoyed my football. The senior players had to bother about the fans and they handled it well.

First team football saw you leave Roma on loan last season to join Scottish giants Glasgow Rangers. But, your spell was cut short. Can you tell us what happened?

My Rangers adventure didn’t pan out the way I had expected. It was strange you know. Really, I didn’t fancy joining Rangers, it was Steven Gerrard that convinced me to come to Scotland.

He (Gerrard) called me several times, and even when I ignored, he reached out through texts telling me why he wanted me at Rangers, and promising me first team football.

However, things, strange ones, happened. I can’t explain. I just saw myself on the bench and there was no explanation from the dugout.

The car-park palaver, what happened?

I don’t know, I was just told I couldn’t park my car in the first team garage.

Now with Partizan Belgrade, what are your expectations?

I have dreams and hopefully I will realise them with Belgrade. I want to do my talking on the pitch, do well for the club and earn a national team call-up.

I have already opened my goal account in the league and Europa for the team. I hope to continue the momentum. I believe it can only get better. The coach believes in me, which is very important for a player. I continue to look forward to an exciting league and Europa campaign.

If I do well, then I am sure I’ll get a Super Eagles call-up.

The last time you wore the national colours was for the U-23 team at the 2016 Olympic Games in Brazil. How did you feel?

I was happy, excited to wear the green and white colours. It is every footballer’s dream and I’m happy to relish it. I will tell my kids when they grow up that their father played for Nigeria at the Olympics and won a bronze medal. And I’m ready to fight for the shirt again as I was disappointed not getting a call-up after Rio. I have been impressed with the current bunch of players that was called up by the coach. The games against Brazil and Ukraine show the talent in the team. I am not scared; I’m ready to stake a claim if I get a national team call up.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]