I would have been a chef – Fashanu
Ex-England international of Nigerian descent, John Fashanu, talks about his love for food, Nigerian music, his relationship with Nigerians and more in this interview with EBENEZER BAJELA

How much of the Yoruba culture do you know?

First I will say that I am lucky because God didn’t bring me to Nigeria as a Yoruba, Igbo or Hausa. Instead he brought me here as a Nigerian. I get on a lot with many people but I must say that I have so many Yoruba, Igbo and Hausa friends. I don’t see ethnic culture when I am with them, instead I see a one Nigeria.

Have you experienced any cultural shock since relocating to Nigeria?

No, I don’t think so. I have always been welcome here. The late Moshood Abiola put me on his private jet and flew me to Nigeria for the first time at the age of 17 and I thank him so much. From the day I got to Nigeria till now, I have always felt at home because this is my country.

Which of Nigeria’s languages do you speak?

It’s always difficult for me to understand the languages because everybody that I speak with is always communicating with me in English. They love my English accent, so they always want to speak it even when I want to hear them speak Yoruba, Igbo or Hausa. And that is why I could never understand the native languages. I have spent lots of time with many of my brothers here in Nigeria but none of them want to speak the native language with me. I have tried to understand the languages but it’s been difficult.

Which Nigerian food do you like most?

I don’t have a preference when it comes to food. It’s like somebody saying to me, which Nigerian women do you like most? I like people who are nice to me; it doesn’t matter where they are from in Nigeria. If she’s good, she’s good and if she’s bad, she’s bad. It’s exactly the same with the food. But I like to eat good food and that is why one of my dreams right now is that I would love to open a restaurant where I will like to have traditional dishes and continental dishes.

Do you see yourself as a fashionista?

No, I don’t view myself as a fashionista. Maybe other people might do because I don’t even call myself a celebrity because I am known and I wear what I like, hoping that other people will copy me and wear the same thing.

Do you like Nigerian music?

It’s very difficult not to like Nigerian music because from D’Banj, who I stayed with for almost seven years, to Burna Boy and to all my friends who are in the music business, it’s very difficult not to, when you have lots of them around you. I have loads of them as friends and also lots of comedians and Nollywood actors as friends. I will say that we are the best in all these things. Burna Boy has really excelled, he has gone really crazy and my friends in America do call me telling me that the guy is unbelievable. We’ve known about him for years and we still have many Burna Boys waiting to be discovered and get on that stage to take over. The world knows the potential in Africa and Nigeria is number one in Africa. That’s for sure.

Are you saying that Burna Boy is your favourite artiste?

I can’t say that he is my favourite because I have many of them that I like and they are friends. For instance, D’Banj, Tuface, I am very privilege to have them as friends but he is one of my favourites. At the moment Burna Boy tops the list.

What would you have ended up doing if you hadn’t played football?

If I didn’t play football, I would have been a television presenter or a chef because I love cooking. Me and my partner, we cook every day. I want the readers to know that the ‘Big Fash’ is also a chef because most people don’t know.

Do you go to the local markets?

My partner and I always go to the markets to buy stuffs. We negotiate wares and we argue and push ourselves in the market just like every Nigerian does. We are not different from anybody else. Sometimes, we get good deals and sometimes we get what’s not so good, which is quite normal and I enjoy it because that’s what makes you a Nigerian. You have to be humble and be ready to shout and argue. It is fantastic and I love it.

How do you relate with the market sellers who don’t understand English?

I just try to stay humble and patient. There are times they don’t understand my accent but I’m always patient enough and I laugh with them.

What’s your philosophy about life?

My philosophy is what I call the ‘3L’. It has been tried and trusted year after year, decade after decade. And they are ‘look’, ‘listen’ and ‘learn’. If you can do these three things in life and have the patience and understanding to look at people, listen to people and learn from the people, then you won’t go too far wrong in life.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]