Villarreal increase Chukwueze’s release clause to €100m
Ebenezer Bajela

Villarreal have tied highly-rated Nigeria forward, Samuel Chukwueze, to a new contract with his release clause set at €100m.

The 20-year-old is enjoying an impressive rise to prominence for the Yellow Submarine’s first-team squad after only making his debut in November last year.

He was in the initial list for the 2019 Golden Boy Award, meant for the best player U-21 footballer in Europe, and was recently nominated amongst the 10 youngsters for the 2019 Kopa Trophy award, organized by France Football.

His impressive performance has seen the club increase his clause twice in a year, first to €25m, after his arrival to the first team; and months later it went to €65m.

Reports say the €100m release clause will be in place for the next two years, before dropping to €80m in the third year, which would allow the player to move for less and reward his loyalty.

The Diamond Football Academy product has been a regular in Javi Calleja’s side having already made eight appearances in La Liga this campaign and could add to that tally when they take on Deportivo Alaves at the Estadio de la Ceramica on Friday (today).

Villarreal are desperate to keep their fast-rising Nigerian star, and the new deal, according to Spanish football website AS, has the objective of “making the player’s (Chukwueze) xit more complicated and with the idea of being able to continue counting on the player in that period (three years).”

AS added, “Once those (first) two seasons are over, the club has accepted that the clause be lowered to €80m, which could make it easier for Chukwueze to leave and reward the player for having followed Yellow (Submarine) longer.”

The €40m paid by Manchester United for Eric Bailly and Beijing Guoan for Cedric Bakambu is the biggest transfers in the club’s history and Chukwueze could break that record if any club come asking for his signing with his current performance.

Baily and Bakambu joined the club for €8m and €6m respectively while Chukwueze joined for €500k.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]