How Onyekuru’s position changed my free-kick – Mahrez
Johnny Edward

Algeria captain Riyad Mahrez revealed how Henry Onyekuru’s position triggered him to change his target for the free-kick that sent Nigeria packing 2-1 at the 2019 AFCON in Egypt.

Mahrez’s last-gasp free-kick in the semi-final shattered Nigeria’s dreams of winning the AFCON for the fourth time in Egypt.

Ahead of Algeria’s AFCON 2021 qualifying games against Zambia and Botswana, the 28-year-old recalled the moment against the Super Eagles at the Cairo International Stadium.

“The free-kick? My first instinct was to watch the time on the stadium screen. There, I read that we were in the 94th minute,” Mahrez told France Football.

“I told myself that the free-kick was perfect for me, that I have to concentrate on the idea in my mind. I wanted as few people as possible around the ball. But in Algeria, in this kind of situation, everyone feels it, everyone wants to shoot.

“There’s Youcef Belaili who comes next to me, then I think it’s Baghdad Bounedjah. I told him, “I’m going to shoot.’

“I still asked Youcef to stay for the Nigerians to think he’ll eventually hit it.

“Initially, I wanted to put it under the wall and then I saw this player who lied behind it. He changed everything. On the spot, I told myself that it’s dead over the wall opposite the goalkeeper, and it’s dead under the wall because of the player. Only the goalkeeper’s side remained.

“From there, I knew it was manageable but I had to focus on my action and I put it hard. And here we go, I was convinced that I was going to do something strong at the Africa Cup of Nations. I know myself when I play matches, I can score a lot of goals, make assists and be at the top. In Egypt, I had my revenge.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]