Jersey war: Omeruo unfazed by Ajayi threat
’Tosin Oluwalowo

Super Eagles defender Kenneth Omeruo is not bothered about having to fight for a place in the national team with Semi Ajayi, ahead of Wednesday’s 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Benin in Uyo.

Ajayi has been used by coach Gernot Rohr in Omeruo’s absence from the national team.

According to the Leganes defender, it is to the team’s advantage that there are players fighting for the same position in the team.

“The competition is always welcome with quality players that can replace anybody at any time. Semi has been part of the team even before the (2019) AFCON, he is someone that we know. We have trained together and everyone can see he is doing very well in his club as well. So, it’s a good thing for the country to have more than two, three players in a position. I think it’s good,” he said.

The defender also said Joe Aribo and Victor Osimhen have both been able to fit into the positions of retired duo Mikel Obi and Odion Ighalo respectively.

He said, “Luckily for us we are fortunate to have Aribo, although I have not met him, I watched the two games he played and he was amazing. Also, Ighalo was the highest goals scorer from the AFCON and he was important to us, same as Mikel. But everyone has a time they give up and say ‘I have to stop for other players to come in.’

“So it’s a good thing to know we have these players to take over from them. You can see Osimhen doing very well and scoring goals both for his club and the national team, so, it was important for them to leave when they felt they had done enough and to give other players the opportunity.

“They have been missed, but it’s Nigeria, it’s not individual football and we have amazing talents coming up every day. Now, we have to look forward and we the players who are fit and can give more than 100 percent to fill these spots.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]