Visa racketeering: Wrestling federation goes after impostors
Sodiq Oyeleke

The Nigeria Wrestling Federation has released the names of 14 Nigerians that allegedly forged the signature and electronic mail of its president, Daniel Igali, in a bid to get visas to Serbia.

The Nigerians claimed to be representatives of Nigeria at the 2019 Grappling Championships scheduled for Serbia in November.

The spokesperson for the NWF, Emeka Dennar, said , “The wrestling federation is in search of the impostors. We will arrest them and ensure that they are charged to court.”

Names and passport identification numbers of the alleged imposters were contained in a copy of the letter dated October 10, 2019 and obtained by our correspondent on Thursday.

In the letter, 10 of the alleged impostors claimed to be athletes, one team doctor, one head of delegates and an official.

The suspects’ names were given as Osaji Sunday, Iwuala Chukwudi, Olushola Samson, Eguabor Pedro, Oluwafemi David, Godwin Abiodun, Bachor Onyebuchi, Chukwuma Sabastine, Agugo John, Ukponahiusi Endurance, Onwuama Adeyemi, and Nwachukwu Ephraim.

Okwaonyenor James was listed as the team doctor; Avanrenren Usonobun, coach; and Itemuru Odhiri as the head of delegates.

In the letter, the alleged impostors requested for an invitation letter from the Serbian federation.

A copy of the error-laden letter read in part, “We believe their participate (sic) at this great international tournament would give us more opportunity to have an international exchange ideas (sic) in preparation for the upcoming tournament.

“It will be appreciated if they could (be) rendered necessary assistance to guarantee their participation at this great tournament, also we will like to inform you to apply for an official invitation letter from your appropriate authority in order to facilitate their visa application at Serbia embassy in Abuja, Nigeria.

“The federation assumes the financial circumstances and will be responsible for the above mentioned delegates.”

Igali said the alleged impostors were caught after the President of the Serbian Grappling Federation, Dejan Tešić, wrote to the NWF to confirm Nigeria’s entries for the competition.

The NWF president said the names were strange to him when he got the response, lamenting that the e-mail and signature in the letter were not his.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]