Odey UCL heroic thrills Masters Cup organisers
Ebenezer Bajela

Organisers of the GTB Masters Cup has hailed the meteoric rise of one of the revelations of their grassroots football developmental programme, Stephen Odey, who plays for Belgian club, Genk, following his goal scoring debut in the UEFA Champions Leagues against champions Liverpool on Wednesday, describing it as one of their greatest achievements.

Odey is a product of the GTBank Masters Cup, and he played in the second edition in Lagos, where he was captain of Dairy Farm Senior Secondary School, Agege.

Less than 10 years after playing in the developmental programme, Odey finds himself playing football at the highest level.

The Lagos-born striker was brought on for compatriot, Paul Onuachu, in the 81st minute after the Belgian side were four goals down against champions, Liverpool, at the Luminus Arena Stadium.

And the 21-year-old made an instant impact, scoring a consolation goal barely seven minutes on the pitch, to join the eminent list of Nigerians who scored on their Champions League debut.

Speaking at the draw of the GTB Masters Cup season 9, Chief Operating Officer of Media Vision, Jimmy Sogbesan, said, “This is an event that we take pride in because Stephen Odey, a product of our grassroots football developmental programme, made us proud on Wednesday,” he said.

“His club side were losing by four goals but I was just hoping and praying that he be brought on and the coach did just that.

“It made me so happy and proud to have a product of this great programme playing in the UEFA Champions League. And not only did he played, he also scored against Liverpool.

“We all at Media Vision and GTB are so happy to witness a day like this and we want to urge you (students) to also believe that you can get there and even surpass where Odey is.

“But you will have to be hardworking just as he was and never lose focus. ”

The new season of the GTB Masters Cup kicks off on November 4 with the final scheduled for next January.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]