We will immortalise Yekini, cater for family – Kwara FA
Sodiq Oyeleke

The Kwara State Football Association has said late football icon, Rashidi Yekini, would be immortalised in the state.

Kwara FA chairman, Idris Musa, said this in commemoration of the late Yekini’s 56th posthumous birthday celebration on Wednesday.

Musa said the fallen footballer, who hailed from Kwara State, has taught them a lesson of investing in grassroots football.

Musa condoled with family members of the deceased and football lovers, adding that the legacies of Yekini would not be forgotten.

When asked what plans the state government had for the late footballer, Musa said, “Yekini has inspired us to go to the grassroots in Kwara to bring young talented footballers. We are just coming in as a board. The moment we stabilise, we will immortalise and consider a form of welfare for his family. Unfortunately, this year’s remembrance came at a point when we are still settling down.

“We have a solid plan to immortalise him. I remember that during our tour, we mentioned that, when we went to Offa. We are working on this, and hopefully this time next year we will have something in place already.”

Meanwhile, football fans on Wednesday used the social media to celebrate the late footballer’s memories.

While some described him as an unforgettable legend, others said he remained their best Nigerian striker.

On its part, world football ruling body FIFA in its celebration of the late footballer, tweeted, “We’ll never forget his celebration at USA 1994.”

The Minister of Youth and Sports, Sunday Dare, described Yekini as “one of Nigeria’s greatest footballers.”

“Death can only take you away from us, but it can never take the precious memories you gave us to cheer,” the Ekiti State Football Association posted on its social media timelines.

Born on October 23, 1963, Yekini died on May 4 2012. He started his career at 17, scored Nigeria’s first ever World Cup goal at USA ‘94 and the first Nigerian to win the African Footballer of The Year award in 1993. He is also Nigeria’s all time highest scorer with 37 goals.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]