Dare approves refund of missing IAAF $135,000
Sodiq Oyeleke

The Minister of Youth and Sports, Sunday Dare, has announced the approval of the refund of the $135,000 mistakenly paid into the account of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria by world athletics body IAAF last year.

IAAF mistakenly paid AFN $150,000, instead of $15,000 as Nigeria’s 2017 grant.

In a tweet on Wednesday, Dare said the refund was approved to save Nigeria’s reputation in the international community.

He, however, did not state the amount to be refunded as immediate past sports minister Solomon Dalung claimed he had approved part-payment of the missing $135,000.

“I have approved the release of funds to refund the IAAF overpayment wrongly credited to the Athletics Federation of Nigeria. In a few days from now the funds should hit the account of the IAAF baring any interbank delays. With this, Nigeria’s reputation is regained,” Dare tweeted.

The IAAF had on May 13, 2018 wrote to AFN asking for a refund when it discovered that the whereabouts of the excess could not be traced.

Though the AFN replied that the sports ministry was ready to refund 50 per cent of that amount on June 28, the IAAF in the letter said “despite several telephone conversations the amount was still not paid.”

The missing $135, 000 was later claimed to have been used to purchase kits for athletes and settle part of the payment of athletes’ allowances for the 2018 African Athletics Championships in Asaba.

The drama surrounding the missing money reached its peak when some aggrieved board members attempted to impeach AFN president, Shehu Gusau, and demanded for investigation of funds disbursed to his administration.

The Independent Corrupt Practices and other Offences Commission is currently investigating how the missing money was spent.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]