Abdul-Gafar: Female kid boxer with the sucker punch
’Tosin Oluwalowo

Hitherto unexplored waters for young girls, boxing, often derided as a dangerous sport, is suddenly turning a groom of sorts for females.

The 14-year-old Fatia Abdul-Gafar is one of the young girls who have dared to tread the dreaded path that boxing truly is.

“I started boxing when I was 11 years old and in Junior secondary school (JSS 2). My Dad is a trainer, he has few aspiring young boxers he trains around Ifako-Ijaiye and Meiran axis.

“On that particular day I went to watch one of his sparring sessions involving his boxers, I fell in love with what I saw and picked interest in the sport.

“And, after that encounter I told him I wanted to start training and he accepted.”

Many parents would have denied Abdul-Gafar of her interest, over fears of her safety and perhaps her education.

“I am lucky,” she added.

“My dad had no problem with my decision and he is always happy to train me.”

It must be tough learning the ropes though, the teenager admitted.

“It is not easy, I learnt the tough way despite having my father as my coach,” she replied.

“I started from the basics, learnt the principle of boxing. Gradually, I improved after six months before I got registered for competitions.”

Abdul-Gafar’s reward for her commitment earned her a national laurel.

“After taking part in competitions with some boxing clubs, I went to the National Youth Games in Ilorin, where I won the gold medal in the 46kg category for girls.

“When I won gold at the NYG, it was a special moment for me, because it has always been my dream to represent my state and Nigeria at competitions.

Just like every young aspiring kid’s dilemma, combining education with sport is often a tough navigation.

How has she been able to balance both?

“Everything is planning. I have been able to sort that out with my father. I make sure I do my homework and other school assignments before going for training. It is something that has worked well for me,” she revealed to Sports Extra.

On her role models in the sport, the teenager replied, “I don’t really have. I just want to do my own thing and make my own history.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]