Visa racketeering scandal rocks wrestling federation
Sodiq Oyeleke

No fewer than 14 Nigerians, who claimed to be wrestlers, have been accused of visa racketeering in an attempt to gain entrance into Serbia.

It was gathered that the suspects claimed to be representatives of Nigeria at a Grappling Championships expected to hold in Serbia in November 2019.

They allegedly submitted their applications by forging the electronic mail address and phone number of the President of the Nigeria Wrestling Federation, Daniel Igali.

Our correspondent gathered that this is the eighth time the NWF is facing a visa racketeering scandal in six years.

When contacted, Igali confirmed the development, saying the case would be “thoroughly investigated.”

He explained that the suspects were caught when the President of the Serbian Grappling Federation, Dejan Tešić, wrote to confirm Nigeria’s entries for the competition.

“People went to forge my signature and email. A lot of times, we what we can and report to the police. Sometimes, you even find out that those involved are close to the system.

“It is so unfortunate. But this one, we are going to get to the bottom of it. Somebody needs to be arrested for giving us a bad image abroad,” he said.

Though there were allegations that members of the NWF may not be unconnected with the alleged visas racketeering, Igali exonerated his federation members.

Igali said, “No, no official of the NWF that would be involved in something like that. I have made my enquiries and combed our federation and I can say it is not from our members. Though I know where it may be coming from.

“We have looked at the system and our members understand the rule. There is an official e-mail that we use to communicate with other international federations. I already informed all the federations of our official means of communication.”

While condemning the situation, Igali said, “This is just the latest one. This is about the eighth time since I have been president. Two years ago, some Nigerians impersonated us in Spain. At the 2017 World Championships in Paris, a set of 18 Nigerians did the same thing. This is so unfortunate.

“We have a bunch of fraudulent human beings whose job is to impersonate people, do visa racketeering and spoil the names of Nigeria in the world.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]