Sule rewards Nasarawa United, Amazons with N15m
Umar Muhammed, Lafia

Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, has rewarded Nasarawa United and Nasarawa Amazons with N15m for winning the pre-2019/20 season Ahlan Cup tournament and the 2019 Aiteo Cup respectively.

Sule however stated that conflicting figures of the number of Nasarawa United players given by the state’s Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Bulus Amoyi and Chairman of Nasarawa United, Mr. Abdullahi Osanga, had prevented him from announcing cash donations before now.

The governor made the statement in Government House, Lafia on Tuesday at a reception in honour of the two teams and their managements.

He said, “I wanted to know the number of players so that I could make both my personal and government donations.

“Unfortunately I kept getting different numbers from the chairman of the clubs, the permanent secretary and leaders of the club.”

He said the development sent a wrong signal to him because he wanted to ensure that whatever he gave got to the players, the coaches and the technical crew first.

“I wanted to make an individual donation to every player, particularly those that made it to the national team,” the governor added.

The governor insisted that out of the N15m, N5m was strictly for players of both clubs, while N2m was for their technical crews.

The remaining N1m is for the supporters club of both teams, the governor added.

“Let me congratulate both teams for their recent outstanding performances. This will no doubt spur this administration in its determination to change the way we look at sports in Nasarawa State,” he said.

“Sporting activities will go a long way in encouraging our children, not only to participate in physical fitness exercises, but also discover their potential in one sporting endeavour or the other.

“This is because the sports sector has become one of the major employers of labour in the country, where the potential of our youths are being discovered on a daily basis. This has gone a long way to empower them to pursue careers in sports.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]