Ikhana’s hip injury worsens, struggles to walk
Sodiq Oyeleke

Kadiri Ikhana, the man who coached Enyimba to win the CAF Champions League title in 2003, is struggling from a hip injury, which has almost paralysed him.

In a video obtained by our correspondent, the coach could barely walk without the help of a walking stick.

Apart from the walking stick, he was also supported with a hip strap belt.

Despite the use of a walking stick and the belt, the former defender, a 1980 Africa Cup of Nations winner, is visibly in pains, as he struggles to walk.

For each step he took, he relaxed a few seconds before taking another.

When contacted on Monday by our correspondent, the former Super Falcons coach could barely talk.

According to the ailing coach, he quit his job as Kano Pillars coach in 2017 to undergo treatment.

He, however, said despite retiring, the injury refused to heal, and has gulped a major share of his savings.

“I just finished seeing the doctor. I was told that I needed hip replacement surgery,” he said.

“I retired from coaching because of my lingering injury. I thought if I quit coaching, I would be okay. But I tell you, to take a step now is very difficult for me.

“I was thinking I will be able to subdue the injury by treating it myself. In the last two years, I have been spending my money to ensure that my condition is better.

“Now, I have to cry out. The pain I am going through is just too much and that is why I am coming out. Whatever assistance I can get, I wouldn’t mind,” the 69-year-old coach added.

Ikhana has managed more than 10 clubs in Nigeria including El-Kanemi Warriors, BCC Lions, Kwara United, Sunshine Stars, Sharks, Nasarawa United, Giwa FC, Shooting Stars and Enyimba.

The former U-23 national team coach led Enyimba to CAF Champions League glory in 2003.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]