Lampard prepared to keep Giroud
…as Palace weigh up move for Frenchman

Frank Lampard says he would be prepared to discuss Olivier Giroud’s future in January after the forward admitted he could be forced to consider his options if he remains on the fringes of the Chelsea line-up.

Giroud, who was on the bench again in Saturday’s 1-0 win over Newcastle United, revealed his frustrations while on international duty with France last week, saying that, at the age of 33, he was anxious for more game time.

Goals against Iceland and Turkey during the most recent international break confirmed Giroud’s continuing threat and Lampard made it clear he would like to keep the Frenchman at Stamford Bridge, while Abraham spoke on Saturday about his more senior team-mate’s influence on his own form.

“I had a good chat with Oli before he went away and I always respect all the players, but particularly the players of that age of low thirties,” Lampard said.

“I love his professionalism. He was bang on when he spoke to me and with his quotes when he was away with France. He shouldn’t be happy and accept not playing. That’s what good players do. I think, as I said to Oli, he will get his games and be a big influence for us.

“At the moment, because of how Tammy is playing, there hasn’t been the minutes, so I would happily sit down with Oli in January. But that is a long way away. I want him here.”

Meanwhile Crystal Palace are keen to add some firepower to their struggling front-line with an ambitious January swoop for Chelsea striker Olivier Giroud, according to reports.

Palace have had to make do with Christian Benteke and Jordan Ayew leading the line this season, and are desperate to add a more prolific front-man to their ranks.

Giroud is unsettled at Chelsea, and The Sun report that Palace are keen to make the most of his uncertain future and move for his services in January.

Giroud fears that his lack of football will see him miss out on a place in France’s squad for the European Championships next summer, making it even more important that he finds some football in the second half of the campaign.

Giroud cost Chelsea £18million when they signed him from Arsenal in 2018, and he signed a year’s extension to his £100,000-a-week deal back in May.