Dare tasks panel to probe Doha poor outing
Sodiq Oyeleke

The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has tasked the newly inaugurated review panel to expose facts responsible for Team Nigeria’s failure at the just-concluded World Athletics Championships held in Doha, Qatar.

The minister inaugurated the committee on Monday in fulfillment of his promise that Nigeria’s poor performance and disqualification scare of Blessing Okagbare and Divine Oduduru would be investigated.

The Athletic Federation of Nigeria earlier took responsibility for the mix-up and apologised to Nigerians.

In a statement made available to our correspondent, the minister told members of the panel that “the the assignment would be tasking and daunting.”

He also told them that as they had limited time with which to send on their report, but tasked them “to go for the facts and figures.”

“We need to know why Nigeria which topped the athletics medals table at the 2019 African Games in August came a distant ninth with just one bronze medal on Africa’s standing at the championships just about a month later.

“Other African countries, like Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda, Algeria, Burkina Faso, Cote d’Ivoire, Morocco and even Namibia, did better than Nigeria at the Championships,” the minister said.

The minister expressed optimism in the ability of the committee to do a thorough job owing to the experiences of some of the members with first hand information, interpersonal contacts with some of the athletes and officials amongst others.

Prof. Ken Angwueje was inaugurated as the chairman of the committee, while the members are Dr. Umar Bindir, Rotimi Obajimi, Ibrahim Galadima, Dare Esan, Mary Onyali, Falilat Ogunkoya, and Maria Wophill as secretary.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]