Lagos Open: Dominant Hemery claims second title
’Tosin Oluwalowo

Frenchman, Calvin Hemery, made it two wins out of two, when he claimed the men’s singles title of the second Lagos Open International Tennis Championship on Monday.

India’s Riya Bhatia claimed the women’s singles title, defeating Nastja Kolar 7-5, 1-6, 6-3 in the final.

Hemery won the title after Aldin Setkic retired in their final match played at the Lagos Lawn Tennis Club, Onikan.

The 24-year-old, who is of Nigerian descent, was leading 4-2 in the first set before his opponent pulled out injured.

The final was a repeat of last week’s final, which Hemery won 6-1, 6-2.

The win also ensured Hemery won his sixth ITF title and his third in Nigeria.

The winner’s trophy was presented to Hemery by Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Chairman of the Lagos State Sports Commission, Kweku Tandoh.

“I feel very happy today (Monday), I feel proud of myself and I’m very happy for my people because they were here today. With the tough conditions here, with the rain, the sun, it wasn’t easy for me to play this tournament, so I’m very happy to go away with the title again,” he said.

“I remember the ambience, the food and the good condition here, I feel at home here, just like in France. I’m very happy to be here, it’s a part of me and I hope I will come back to play another tournament here like a Challenger Series of ATP 250.

“My dad is from Edo State, Benin City, like everyone knows, I will go there within the next two days to see my grandmother and spend some time with my people.”

Bhatia won the first set 7-5 but Kolar, seeded fourth, was dominant in the second set, winning 6-1 and was on track to claim the title.

The sixth seeded Indian however fought back and claimed the deciding set 6-3, making it up for her semi-final loss in the first leg of the tournament.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]