Troost-Ekong, Chukwueze, seven others still expected
• Musa leads 14 Eagles in Uyo

Sodiq Oyeleke

Nine players are still expected in the Super Eagles camp in Uyo ahead of the 2021 AFCON qualifier against Benin Republic in Uyo on Wednesday, The PUNCH reports.

Coach Gernot Rohr earlier asked the players to arrive in Uyo at least 48 hours to their qualifying duel against the Squirrels on Wednesday at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium.

The spokesman for the Nigeria Football Federation, Ademola Olajire, said the nine players are expected to arrive Tuesday (today) morning.

Those expected are defenders William Troost-Ekong, Ifeanyi Anaemena and Abdullahi Shehu, midfielders Mikel Agu and Joe Aribo, and forwards Moses Simon, Samuel Chukwueze, Paul Onuachu and Emmanuel Dennis.

Upon their arrival, they would join their Eagles teammates in training at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium on Tuesday evening.

Others who have arrived in the Eagles camp and trained at the Ibom Le Meridien Hotel and Resort on Monday evening are captain Ahmed Musa, goalkeepers Ikechukwu Ezenwa, Daniel Akpeyi and Maduka Okoye, defenders Kenneth Omeruo, Chidozie Awaziem, Olaoluwa Aina, Jamilu Collins and Oluwasemilogo Ajayi, midfielders Alex Iwobi, Ramon Azeez and Wilfred Ndidi, and forwards Samuel Kalu and Victor Osimhen.

Also, Rohr has called up Enyimba defender Ifeanyi Anaemena for the qualifiers against Benin Republic on Wednesday and Lesotho on Sunday.

Olajire said, “Anaemena was drafted in to replace Russia-based left back Bryan Idowu, who submitted his international passport for renewal and the document is not ready for him to travel to Nigeria for the encounter.

“He was impressive for the Eagles B in their 2020 African Nations Championship qualifier against Togo at the Agege Stadium last month, and has also been a key player for Enyimba.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]