Nigerians divided over Rohr’s contract extension
•We will give coach new deal – NFF

Sodiq Oyeleke

Football fans have given their assessment of the performance of Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr 40 months after his appointment.

The debate emanated over the delay in the renewal of the 66-year-old’s coach’s contract by his employers– the Nigeria Football Federation.

Rohr took charge of Nigeria in August 2016 and his contract is expected to expire after the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon.

While some said the coach deserved to have his contract renewed, others argue that the coach has not done enough to get an automatic renewal.

However, NFF president, Amaju Pinnnick, said the coach’s contract would be renewed once he accepts to scout for players within the Nigeria Professional Football League.

“Rohr’s contract is due for renewal in June and we don’t have any issue with him at the moment. We are going to domesticate Rohr in Nigeria and domesticate him to our league, that’s just it,” Pinnick said on Monday.

But some critics, who opposed Rohr’s contract extension, accused the coach of poor outings at the 2018 World Cup and 2019 AFCON.

They also alleged that the coach was yet to help any local player’s growth.

One of the fans, Ademuyiwa Fagbemi, said, “ Late Stephen Keshi didn’t have the quality of players he (Rohr) has at his disposal and he won AFCON, with even home-grown players like Mba, Mohammad Gambo and others. It’s been three years and he is yet to win any tournament.”

“People are saying he has done well, what did he do? He draw Brazil, we have beaten them before. He won bronze at the last Nations cup, that has been achieved before by Amodu Shuaibu. Yet, all these coaches have short time to achieve these,” another fan, Amos Ayomide added.

However, the coach’s ability to make Nigeria qualify for the 2019 AFCON and 2018 World Cup, including the present quality of the team were major points raised by Rohr’s fans, who canvassed for the coach’s contract extension.

Olubode Adesomoju, said, “ He (Rohr) did enough for a contract extension. He is so good in players’ selection. He is not biased in this area. He has the highest winning streak since he took over.

“We were able to qualify for major tournaments with some games to spare. He qualifies us without the use of calculators. He should be given an extension.”

Edwin John said, “Compare the team Rohr is currently handling with other national teams like CHAN Eagles, U-23, U-20 and U-17 and solve the puzzle.”

Tim Macfensy added, “He deserves an extension. He has discovered so many talents. He just needs more time to build a formidable team.”

“He has done well, look at the brand of football we play now compared to the era of Keshi and co and look at the quality of players he has brought into the team. I think Rohr deserves a new contract,” David Akobo added.

Michael Kushimo argued that “the presence of Rohr has made it easier for players of Nigerian descent to switch allegiance, because they know his team selection will be based on merit.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]