Corruption accusation: We’ve forgiven our enemies, says Pinnick
Sodiq Oyeleke

Officials of the Nigeria Football Federation, who recently had a corruption case against them withdrawn by the Federal Government, have forgiven their “enemies”, says NFF president Amaju Pinnick.

Pinnick, NFF secretary-general, Sanusi Mohammed; the first vice president, Seyi Akinwumi; the 2nd vice president, Shehu Dikko and an executive member, Yusuff Fresh were arraigned in May on 18-count charges, including alleged misappropriation of the sums of $8.4m and N4bn belonging to the football body.

But the Federal Government last Tuesday withdrew the corruption charges against five officials of the NFF.

However, they are still facing investigation by officials of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission, who claimed that “the NFF officials have more than they could have earned.”

In the first phase of the ICPC investigation, no fewer than 15 properties belonging to NFF Pinnick; Yusuf; Dikko; and Sanusi were seized.

READ ALSO: Supply suspension: Petrol scarcity hits border towns, fuel now N600/litre

Reacting to the withdrawal of the corruption case by the FG, Pinnick said, “I am happy those toxic moments are over and now it is time to pull and work together.

“We have always maintained our innocence in all of this. The NFF is one of the only few federation that has its account published on FIFA website.

“The bible teaches us to forgive our enemies. We have forgiven them and we hope that they have forgiven us. It was a major distraction. But I wake up every morning praying to God to forgive me and everybody concerned.

“It is not that the some people just hate us. It is the reflection of the love they have for football.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]