Nigerian players abroad: Ighalo, Eze hit match winners
Osimhen, Onuachu fire blanks, Collins, Balogun, Iheanacho missing, Kalu returns

ENGLAND

Alex Iwobi (Everton)

Alex Iwobi had one of his best performances for Everton this season as he helped steer the Toffees’ to a 2-0 win at the Goodison Park against West Ham United on Saturday, in an English Premier League fixture. The Nigerian was substituted for Gylfi Sigurdsson in the 87th minute of the encounter. The game was Iwobi’s sixth league appearance for the Toffees.

Leon Balogun (Brighton)

Leon Balogun was not listed in Brighton’s 2-1 loss to Aston Villa at Villa Park on Saturday. Balogun is yet to feature for the Seagulls this season in the EPL.

Wilfred Ndidi, Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City)

Wilfred Ndidi made his seventh appearance of the season for Leicester City in their 2-1 comeback win against Burnley in the EPL on Saturday at the King Power stadium as they paid tribute to the club owner Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha who passed away on October 27, 2018, from a helicopter crash. Ndidi has scored two goals in the league this season but his compatriot, Kelechi Iheanacho, was not listed for the game and Iheanacho is yet to feature in the league this season for the Foxes.

Eberechi Eze (QPR)

Super Eagles target, Eberechi Eze, scored a brace as Queen Park Rangers came from behind to beat Hull City 3-2 at the KCOM Stadium on Saturday. Eze gave his team the lead in the 78th minute before completing his brace in the 88th minute to make it 3-1. Hull’s Josh Magennis pulled one back in the 90th minute but it was too late as the R’s held on for their seventh win of the season. Eze has scored four goals in 11 league appearances.

Semi Ajayi (West Brom)

Semi Ajayi was on for the entire duration of the game as West Brom Piped Middlesbrough 1-0 away from home in the Championships on Saturday to remain top of the table. Since joining from Rotherham in the summer, Ajayi has featured for the club in all their league games scoring twice.

Oghenekaro Etebo (Stoke City)

Super Eagles midfielder, Oghenekaro Etebo, was on for the entire duration of the game as Stoke City recorded their second win of the season after 11 games. The Potters defeated Fulham 2-0 to see them move away from the bottom of the Championships table but are still in the relegation zone. Etebo has nine appearances for the Potters this season.

SPAIN

Ramon Azeez (Granada)

Ramon Azeez played 31 minutes in his seventh appearance of the season for Granada in their 1-0 win over Osasuna on Friday in the La Liga to maintain their third position in the league. The midfielder replaced Roberto Soldado in the 59th minute of the encounter. The Nigerian international has scored two goals for the Nazaries.

Kenneth Omeruo, Chidozie Awaziem (Leganes)

Eagle’s defender, Kenneth Omeruo returned t the starting lineup for Leganes on Saturday in the La Liga as they lost 2-0 away to Getafe. Leganes are yet to record a win this season as they sit bottom of the league table. Omeruo’s compatriot, Chidozie Awaziem was an unused substitute in the encounter. Omeruo has six appearances for the club this season in the league while Awaziem has been capped five times.

Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal)

Super Eagles forward, Samuel Chukwueze, came on for Karl Toko Ekambi in the 81st minute as Villarreal edged Espanyol 1-0 away in a La Liga clash on Sunday.

Chukwueze has scored two goals in all appearances and has also contributed two assists in eight games this season.

GERMANY

Anthony Ujah (Union Berlin)

Nigerian striker, Anthony Ujah, was on for seven minutes as Union Berlin recorded their second win of the season with a 2-0 defeat of Freiburg on Saturday in the German Bundesliga. With the win, Berlin have moved to the 14th position on the log. Ujah has scored once in seven appearances for the club.

Taiwo Awoniyi (Mainz 05)

Taiwo Awoniyi made his first start of the season for Mainz 05 in their 1-0 loss at Fortuna Düsseldorf on Saturday. The Nigerian U-23 forward was on for 46 minutes before making way for Danny Latza. Awoniyi is yet to score for the German side in four appearances.

Jamilu Collins (SC Paderborn 07)

Jamilu Collins was missing in action for SC Paderborn who suffered a 3-0 loss to 2-1 defeat to Cologne in a German Bundesliga game on Sunday. The defender has featured in seven of his side’s eight game this season.

ITALY

William Troost-Ekong (Udinese)

William Troost-Ekong made his sixth Serie A start for Udinese in their 1-0 win over Ola Aina’s Torino in a Serie A match on Sunday. Aina was an unused substitute in the encounter.

FRANCE

Victor Osimhen (Lille)

Victor Osimhen’s goal drought away from home continued in the Ligue 1 as he failed to grab a goal in Lille’s 2-1 loss at Toulouse on Saturday. The Ligue 1 player of the month for September has scored seven goals in 10 league appearances for the club. Osimhen was on for the entire duration of the game.

Moses Simon (Nantes)

Moses Simon was on for 68 minutes as high-flying Nantes lost 1-0 at Metz on Saturday in the French Ligue 1. Simon was replaced by Abdoul Kader Bamba but the club failed to get an equalizer. Simon, on loan from La Liga side Levante, has scored two goals in eight appearances since joining the club in the summer.

Henry Onyekuru (Monaco)

Super Eagles forward, Henry Onyekuru, was not listed for Monaco in their 1-1 draw with Rennes. Onyekuru has one assist in four appearances to his name since he joined Monaco from Everton in the summer.

BELGIUM

Emmanuel Dennies, David Okereke (Club Brugge)

Emanuel Dennis played 77 minutes in Club Brugge’s 1-0 win at Royal Excel Mouscron on Friday in the Belgium First Division A. Dennis was replaced in the seventh minute by Luis Openda in his eighth league appearance for the club as they remain unbeaten in the league and currently topping the table after 10 games, despite second-placed Standard Liege playing 11. Dennis’ compatriot, David Okereke, was an unused substitute in the encounter.

Paul Onuachu, Stephen Odey (Genk)

Striker Paul Onuachu played three minutes in Genk’s 1-0 loss at Standard Liege on Saturday. Onuachu’s compatriot Stephen Odey was an unused substitute. Onuachu has scored four goals in five league appearances for the Belgian champions.

TURKEY

Anthony Nwakaeme, Mikel Obi (Trabzonspor), Kayode Olanrewaju (Gaziantep)

Nigerian striker, Anthony Nwakaeme, was on for the entire duration of the match as Trabzonspor recorded their fourth win of the season with a 4-1 thumping of Gaziantep on Saturday in the Turkish Super Lig. Nwakaeme was not on the score sheet but assisted Yusuf Sari for the team’s final goal in the 81st minute. His compatriot Mikel Obi was not listed for the game as he is recuperating from an injury. However, Kayode Olanrewaju was shown a straight red card in the match in the 84th minute for Gaziantep.

SOUTH AFRICA

Daniel Akpeyi (Kaizer Chiefs)

Super Eagles shot-stopper, Daniel Akpeyi, played 120 minutes, also saving a spot-kick as Kaizer Chiefs dumped out Cape Town City in the Telcom Knockout competition. They booked their place in the quarter-final, courtesy of a 4-2 win after regulation time had ended 1-1. Akpeyi was impressive in the game making several saves to keep his side in the game.

SCOTLAND

Joe Aribo Sheyi Ojo (Glasgow Rangers)

Super Eagles midfielder, Joe Aribo made his seventh start for Glasgow Rangers who came from behind to earn a 1-1 draw in a testy game against Hearts at Tynecastle on Sunday.

Steven Gerrard’s side were deposed from the summit after Celtic’s win over Ross County on Saturday and remain second by virtue of having scored one goal fewer than their Old Firm rivals.is compatriot, Ojo replaced Ryan Kent in the 62nd minute for his seventh SPL game of the season.

CHINA

Odion Ighalo (Shanghai Shenhua)

Former Nigeria forward Odion Ighalo netted the winner as Shanghai Shenhua came back from a goal down to beat Dalian Yifang 2-1 at home in their Chinese Premier League clash on Sunday. The goal was Ighalo’s eighth goal in 13 CSL appearances for the club this season.

The former Watford striker found the back of the net in the 38th minute and his side successfully defended the lead in the remaining games part of the game.

The win boosted Shanghai Shenhua’s hopes of escaping the drop with four remaining until the end of the campaign. Choi Kang-Hee’s men moved from 12th to 11th position in the table following the win.