Aisha Buhari unveils 2020 Para–powerlifting World Cup
Friday Olokor, Abuja

Wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, on Friday unveiled athletes that would compete at the 2020 Para-powerlifting World Cup, scheduled for Abuja next year.

During the event at the State House in Abuja, Mrs Buhari also unveiled the mascot and logo of the competition.

A statement issued on Friday by her Director of Information, Suleiman Haruna, said Mrs Buhari, who was represented by the wife of the Vice President, Dolapo Osinbajo, charged the organisers to put all hands on deck to achieve ultimate success.

She said unveiling the clothing line was a way to source revenue for retired athletes and called for patronage so that they don’t retire into poverty.

“As an advocate for women, children and vulnerable groups, I will continue to champion their cause with all my strength. Every cloud has a silver lining, which means every challenge can be turned into a blessing, provided there is the will to push for that positive change,” Aisha Buhari was quoted as saying in the statement.

She expressed gratitude to the Nigeria Para-Powerlifting Federation for naming the event after her and giving her the privilege of being host to the championships.

The President of the Para-powerlifting federation, Queen Uboh, said the choice of Mrs Buhari to host the event was deliberate, knowing her commitment to the cause of vulnerable Nigerians.

She said most of the team members were also female and would be inspired by her involvement.

Other personalities who spoke at the event were the Competition Manager, International Para-Powerlifting Federation, Sam Munkley, who spoke on the respect Nigeria earned over the years due to the number of medals won by their powerlifters.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]