I’ve been a Gunner since 1986 – Badmus
Yoruba actor Ayo Badmus in this interview with SOLAPE LAWAL-SOLARIN talks about his love for Arsenal fan, the Golden Geeneration of Nigerian football and more

As an actor do you see any similarity between sport and theatre?

They both have something in common, not just one but loads, which I call creativity, skills and talent. Acting is a fusion of these three and I see sports in that realm too. Your talent sells you; it is like a ware you display that sells your brand; just like actors and sportsmen excelling in their fields.

You mentioned skills and talents, can you explain further, citing footballers as examples?

Football is all about skills, talents and techniques. Many players have it in abundance but, then there are certain or few players who stand out from the rest. Let’s take a look at Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo, both have thrived and dominated the scenes. Are you telling me there are no other good players out there? We have lots of players, but then, these two are just something else. Their successes are as a result of the factors I mentioned.

You said the duo is exceptional. Do you have any other player in mind that can end their dominance?

Of course. There are many players out there, stepping out of their shadows in recent times. Neymar is one of them but, I have been left disappointed about his progression. He seems to have stopped. Another player that can ruffle these two is Paris Saint-Germain sensation, Kylian Mbappe. The guy is young, skillful and has lot of pace. In short, he is a complete player. I nicknamed him Mr Football.

Do you have a favourite club that you support?

I have a very big ‘yes’ to that question. Arsenal is the club I love dearly; I have been a darling fan of the club since 1986. Late David Rowcastle was my best player then, unfortunately he didn’t play for England at the international level. I have a fond memory of him alongside David O’Leary, Alan Smith just to mention three. They were the Gunners’ legends in 1986.

Interesting, you seem to know a lot about Arsenal. So what can you say about their recent stuttering form?

Whether you like it or not, Arsenal are among the best teams in Europe and England. We might not be winning but, I love the club because of the philosophy, the style of play. I don’t care about titles as long as I get entertained, enjoy good football, it is all good. I want to watch fanciful football; I want to watch beautiful football. I’m sorry if others don’t like it but that is me and that is why I’m an (Mezut) Ozil fan. You need to know about the club history, the feats before you can truly be a Gunner. Do you know about the 1987 league decider versus Liverpool? Arsenal beat the Reds when they were really hot with Steve Nicol, John Barnes and others in their ranks. We are going to come out of our poor form, that is for sure so, I’m not bothered.

What is your take on Nigerian Alex Iwobi’s exit from Arsenal?

I guess Iwobi’s exit to Everton was more about business. I don’t know what happened, but it is sad that he left. Nwankwo Kanu said he would have interfered if he knew they were going to sell him. That statement from an Arsenal legend and a star like that means Iwobi was never a bad player (at Arsenal).

What can you say about football in Europe and Africa?

The problem is simple: lack of business initiative (in Africa). We don’t know how to do business in Nigeria and Africa. Selling a brand is our problem, but in Europe they know how to do it and have benefited immensely from it. Where are the major companies in Nigeria, where are the administrators? It is an endless opportunity but, we are still struggling. The truth is, talent is not our problem but management. The country is blessed with loads of talents.

Do you have any local club you support?

At the moment I don’t have any indigenous club that I support. Back in the days, I supported Shooting Stars of Ibadan. It is funny, I’m a Lagos resident, but I never supported Stationary Stores. I rooted for Shooting. The likes of Idowu Olubusi, Sam Asante, Kennedy Dappar, Best Ogendegbe etc are the reason I love the Ibadan-based club.

Do you follow the Super Eagles?

I did during the days of Clemens Westerhof. He took our football to the next level and his exit also ushered in a decline in our football. His man-management skill was superb, bringing out the best in the players. However, some people were just hell bent on pushing him out despite winning the AFCON trophy in 1994 for Nigeria and also helping to discover talents for the team.

What is your take on the present Eagles?

Gernot Rohr is a good coach; he is doing fine as far as I am concerned. At least we’ve seen his results, all he needs is support from Nigerians and the Nigeria Football Federation.

Did you play football while growing up?

I played a little bit of football but I did more of track and field because of my height, I guess. I was into long jump.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]