West Brom should expect more from me –Ajayi
Ebenezer Bajela

Super Eagles defender, Semi Ajayi, is happy with West Brom’s great start to the season in the Championship, saying their great run of form contributed to his integration into the team. But want his teammates to stay focus to stay atop the table for the rest of the season.

Ajayi, who joined the Baggies from Rotherham United in the summer, has settled in at the Hawthorns, becoming a key member of Slaven Bilic’s squad.

The 25-year-old is delighted with how things have turned out since his move and recognises the impact of the manager for the meteoric rise.

“I’ve been over the moon to come straight into the team and settle in,” he said on the club’s website.

“The lads have welcomed me really well and the fact that the team has been winning as well has made it even easier for me to settle. It’s been a really, really positive environment for me to come into and long may it continue.

“I’ve been happy with how I have played. There is still definitely more to come from me. The start has been really good and I just need to kick on now.

“Slaven talks to me daily, he is always giving me pointers on how I can improve or little bits of information that he thinks could help me that I may not have seen. I am always picking his brains for things I can learn. He has been really, really good with me.

“The fact that the performances have been really good and consistent is giving me the confidence to know that when I step on the pitch it is likely that we are going to continue.

“As they say, the league table doesn’t lie. After 11 games, almost a quarter of a way through the season now, the fact that we are where we are can only be on merit and it’s important that we don’t get too carried away now.”

The utility defender has made 12 appearances for the Baggies and capped his fine defensive displays with two goals, which helped his side climb to the summit of the Championship log.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]