Boxers in love with football clubs
From Tyson Fury to Chris Eubank, the list goes on as the round leather game’s charm offensive continues to lure the world’s finest pugilist

Ruiz (C.D. Guadalaraja) Mexico

Andy Ruiz Jr took a break this week from preparing for his rematch with Anthony Joshua to watch his beloved C.D. Guadalajara in the Mexican top flight – and the 30-year-old is not the only boxer to offer an insight into his passion for football.

The American-Mexican stopped by the Estadio Akron to watch his favourite team suffer a 4-2 loss at home to Pachuca in the Liga MX, documenting the trip on his Instagram account.

Though known for his boxing ability, having shocked Joshua in June to claim the world titles previously held by the British heavyweight, it showed Ruiz Jr’s love for sport extended outside of the ring.

And the unified world heavyweight champion is not alone in offering fans a glimpse inside his love of the beautiful game.

Tyson Fury (Manchester United)

The lineal world heavyweight champion dropped by to see Manchester United draw with Arsenal in the Premier League shortly after drawing with Deontay Wilder last December.

The 31-year-old was interviewed by BT Sport at half-time during the game and spoke of his desire for a potential rematch with Wilder to take place at Old Trafford, though it now seems likely that will take place in the US in February.

The Red Devils can also list ex-lightweight world champion Anthony Crolla among their famous boxing fans.

Ricky Hatton (Man City)

Though ‘The Hitman’ now trains Fury’s younger brother, Love Island’s Tommy, the 40-year-old regularly cheers on Manchester CIty at the Etihad Stadium.

The 40-year-old also experienced some success of his own at City’s ground in 2008, successfully defending his light welterweight titles against Juan Lazcano.

Anthony Yarde (Arsenal)

The British light heavyweight bruiser makes no secret of his love for Arsenal and was even seen sporting a Gunners top in training for August’s defeat to WBA champ Sergey Kovalev.

The 28-year-old visited the Emirates Stadium in the summer for a promotional event that also involved Arsenal youngster Reiss Nelson and NBA star James Harden.

Yarde is not the only boxer to support the Gunners, with former world champions James DeGale and Joshua also being fans of the north Londoners.thony Yarde.

George Groves (Chelsea)

The 31-year-old took his WBA super middleweight strap to Stamford Bridge in May 2018 to cheer on Chelsea against Huddersfield in the Premier League.

The Brit always spoke of his desire to fight at the Bridge during his career, but sadly an opportunity never arose before he retired last year.

Callum Smith (Liverpool)

The 29-year-old defeated Groves last September to claim the WBA strap and is known to be a fierce supporter of Liverpool.

Along with brothers Paul, Stephen and Liam, all of whom are also professional boxers, the siblings are regulars on the Reds’ in-house channel, LFCTV.

Across the city,Tony Bellew is well known for his support of Everton and won the WBC cruiserweight title at Goodison Park in May 2016.