Gerrard wants me to play like a beast – Aribo
Ebenezer Bajela

Glasgow Rangers midfielder, Joe Aribo, has said he is aiming to get nasty and play more like a beast following instruction from his manager, Steven Gerrard.

Aribo recounted his nasty head injury after a head clash with Ricki Lamie in a Betfred Cup tie in September, where he departed the stadium with 20 stitches, but has now revealed that his manager wants him to toughen up a bit and be difficult to play against.

“I thought it was a bit crazy, the blood dripping, but it wasn’t too much for me to handle,” the 23-year-old said.

“I was a bit fuming that not much was given for the incident but you just have to learn from it. It happened.

“It is very physical in Scottish football and I have been learning that. So I just hope I am able to match what I am going to get from the opposition and be nasty to play against.

“It’s something I am teaching myself that I have to improve on because some may say that I am a bit nice but I just want to be as nasty a player as I can be as well as a technical player.

“It was an amazing feeling getting my first goal in the Scottish league, I am ecstatic.

“I was just happy to get through the 90 minutes with what happened the last time.

“I wasn’t thinking too heavily on it but it’s always in the back of your mind and I just wanted to put my stamp on the game.

“The manager said he wanted me to be a beast. I would say it means just make your opponent dread playing against you because you are going to be in your face.

“That’s what I wanted to go out there and do and I am just happy I was able to put in a good performance and the team were able to get a good result.”

Aribo scored in the 32nd minute to grab his first Ladbrokes Premiership goal and a prize for man of the match six weeks after departing the same stadium with 20 stitches in his head.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]