Lagos Open: Dream comes true for q’finalist Quadre
’Tosin Oluwalowo

Oyinlomo Quadre sealed her place in the quarter-final of the Lagos Open International Tennis Championships on Thursday, becoming the only Nigerian left in the competition.

Quadre, 16, qualified for her first-ever ITF quarter-final after her opponent, eight seed Tamara Curovic, retired in their second round tie.

The Nigerian had won the first set 6-2 and was leading 1-0 in the second set before Curovic retired.

She also became the first Nigerian to make it to the quarter-final of the Lagos Open since Clifford Enosoregbe in 2016.

Speaking after the game, Quadre said her second round loss in the first leg served as a motivation for her in achieving her target of making it to at least the quarter-final of the competition.

“It’s amazing winning this match and qualifying for my first-ever quarter final of the Lagos Open Tennis. It’s like a dream come true for me because before this competition, I had it at the back of my mind that at the least, I should reach the quarter-final stage of this year’s tournament,” she said.

“I was a set away from achieving this last week during the first leg as I lost my second round match in the third set. Though disappointing, I had to brace for the challenges ahead.

“I am so happy that I achieved my set target for the Lagos Open this year and going forward, I am aiming higher for better performance that will get me to play in the final.”

“I’m so glad with the motivation I received from my parent and my coach. My dad encouraged me that if Sada Nahimana, the Burundian lady, who won the first leg women’s singles, who is incidentally my roommate at the ITF Centre in Morocco, could get to this height, I too could also achieve that.”

Nigeria’s other player in the second round Blessing Samuel was however not lucky, as she was defeated in 40 minutes by the first leg runner-up, Laura Pigossi.

Pigossi won the match 6-0, 6-1.

Quadre, who is the only unseeded player left in the competition will play second seed Valeriya Strakhova in the quarter-final.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]