Mansouri, Nahimana out of Lagos Open
’Tosin Oluwalowo

Men’s top seed Skander Mansouri and winner of the women’s singles title in the first leg Sada Nahimana have been eliminated in the second round of the Lagos Open International Tennis Championships.

Frenchman Gianni Mina avenged his first round loss to Mansouri in the first leg by claiming a 7-6, 6-2 win on Thursday.

Nahimana could not also make it a back-to-back title wins, losing to fourth seed Nastja Kolar.

Kolar came back from a set down to win 1-6, 6-2, 7-5 and book her place in the quarter-finals.

In the other games, men’s singles first leg winner Calvin Hemery defeated Courtney Lock 6-0, 6-1, while Courtney’s brother, Benjamin, defeated India’s Dhruv Sunish 6-2, 6-0 in 56 minutes.

Fouth seed David Pichler beat Indian Jatin Dahiya 6-1, 6-1, while seventh seed Aldin Setkic outclassed Frenchman Tristan Meraut 6-2 6-0. Tunisian Aziz Ouakaa also saw off American William Bushamuka 6-2, 6-4.

Takanyi Garanganga defeated Michael-john Every 6-2, 6-3 in 1hr 45mins, while Aziz Dougaz defeated Thomas Setodji 6-3, 6-2 to complete the second round games.

Mina will play Garanganga in the quarter-final, while Pichler has been paired against Sektic.

Other quarter-final pairings are Ouakaa against Dougaz, while Lock will lock horns with Hemery.

In the women’s category, top seed, Seone Mendez saw off Netherland’s Lexie Stevens 6-2, 6-4 while second seed Valeriya Strakhova defeated Jasmin Jebawy 6-1, 6-0. Isabella Kruger also fell to the superior powers of Riya Bhatia, with the Indian winning 7-5, 6-4.

Sandra Samir, seeded third defeated Nika Kukharchuk 6-4, 6-2 while Fifth seed Rutuja Bhosale from India defeated her compatriot Sowjanya Bavisetti 6-1, 6-1.

Nigeria’s Oyinlomo Quadre and Blessing Samuel had mixed fortunes in their second round games.

While Oyinlomo scaled through to the quarter-final after her opponent Tamara Curovic retired in the second set. Quadre had already won the first set 6-2 and was already ahead 1-0 in the second set.

Runner-up in the first leg Brazilian Laura Pigossi was too hot for Samuel seeing her off 6-0, 6-1 in just 40 minutes.

The quarter-final parings for the women’s singles has Mendez playing Bhatia, while Samir will square up against Bhosale.

Pigossi will face Kolar, while Quadre who is the only unseeded player left in the women’s draw will play Strakhova.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]