Aiteo Cup: Akwa players lament Udom’s unpaid N70m pledge
Johnny Edward

Two years after winning the 2017 Aiteo Cup, players of Akwa United are yet to receive the N70m promised the team by the governor of Akwa Ibom, Udom Emmanuel, has reliably gathered.

The Promise Keepers defeated Niger Tornadoes 3-2 on penalties in the final of the competition after extra time ended goalless.

A tweet from the official handle of Akwa United on September 12, 2018 reads, “His Excellency @MrUdomEmmanuel has rewarded us @Akwaunitedfc for winning the 2017 Aiteo Cup competition with a cash sum of N70m naira. “Thank you Governor Udom Emmanuel.”

Two players, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, told the PUNCH that they were yet to receive their share of the money from the governor after two years.

“We don’t even know when the governor will redeem his pledge to the team,” he said.

The other player, who is currently not on the books of the club, alleged that Udom had released the funds to the team but wondered why they had not been paid.

“I don’t think the governor of Akwa Ibom will renege on his promise to the team,” he began.

“None of the officials have spoken about it all this while and it is quite strange.

When The PUNCH contacted the media officer of the team, Mfon Patrick, he said,” I will not be able to comment on that as I am not at liberty to divulge such information to you.”

Akwa United chairman, Paul Bassey, did not respond to telephone calls from our correspondent. He also did not reply to messages sent to his WhatsApp as at the time of filing this report on the issue.

Also, Kano Pillars have also raised the alarm that they were yet to receive the prize monies for winning this year’s Aiteo Cup as well as finishing runners-up in the NPFL.

Pillars spokesman Idris Malikawa said several months after Pillars beat Niger Tornadoes to win a first-ever Aiteo Cup, the club were yet to receive the N25m prize money.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]