Nigeria’s athletics woes continue
Punch Editorial Board

NIGERIA’s participation in the 2019 World Athletics Championships in Doha, Qatar, offered a suitable basis for assessment of the country’s current standing in the global competition after years of wallowing in the doldrums. Following 10 days of competition, however, all Nigeria could savour was a solitary bronze medal won by an unsung long jumper, Ese Brume, who may have been proving her mettle in Africa, but was never given a chance at the global stage.

It thus reinforced a sustained pattern of mediocrity that has defined Nigeria’s participation in the past five editions of the competition, where her contingents had been returning home empty-handed. Even in the intervening Olympic Games of 2012 and 2016, Nigerian athletes never came near the medals podium. Sadly, for those who had nursed any hope of resurgence this time, it was indeed a confirmation of the relegation from a once-treasured status in the elite class to a mere peripheral role.

No Nigerian would watch America’s continued dominance of the short distance races and some of the field events without being overwhelmed by a sense of nostalgia about Nigeria’s promising past. It is a sad reminder of a country that once boasted a string of talented athletes that used to give the Americans a run for their money. Although Nigeria never really got to dominate the Americans, yet there was that hope that it would be a matter of time before the Nigerians would catch up with them; and the Americans themselves recognised the potential of the Nigerians and took special interest in the Mobil Track and Field, which then served as the country’s selection trials for major regional and global competitions.

In Africa – with the exception of the gifted Namibian sprinter, Frankie Fredericks – Chidi Imoh, Olapade Adeniken, the Ezinwa brothers (Davidson and Osmond), Daniel Effiong, Innocent Egbunike, Sunny Uti, Sunday Bada, Clement Chukwu, Enefiok Udo-Obong, among others, held sway in all the short and long sprints. Henry Amike, Daniel Ogidi, Yusuf Alli, Ajayi Agbebaku, Joseph Taiwo and the Aladefa family, among others, dominated the men’s hurdles and jumps. In the female category, the likes of Mary Onyali, Tina Iheagwam, Falilat Ogunkoya, Rufina Uba, Beatrice Utondu, Christy Opara-Thompson, Charity Okpara, Fatimah Yusuf, Chioma Ajunwa, were head and shoulders above others on the continent. Most of the African records in the sprints, jumps and throws rightly belonged to the Nigerians.

Unfortunately, instead of Nigeria catching up with the Americans and the other occasional challengers like Linford Christie of Britain and Donovan Bailey of Canada, it was the Jamaicans that stole into the limelight. With the magnificent trio of the world record holder, Usain Bolt, Yohan Blake and Asafa Powell in the male category, and Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce, Veronica Campbell-Brown, Elaine Thompson, Sherone Simpson and the rest of the female athletes, the Jamaicans completely rewrote history, while Nigerians quietly slid into oblivion.

In Doha, Nigerians struggled to make it past the heats, let alone contend for medals. When Nigeria, in the Barcelona ’92 Olympics, produced three finalists in the men’s 100 metres final, the same as the Americans, nobody could have thought that there would be a time when getting to the semi-final of such an event would become an impossible task. At the end of it all, Nigeria made more name in Doha from administrative lapses than from the tracks. Due to an Athletics Federation of Nigeria mix-up, two Nigerian athletes were almost unceremoniously thrown out of the competition.

With Blessing Okagbare as perhaps the only truly world-class athlete – she has produced more sub-11 seconds performance in the 100 metres than any other female Nigerian athlete – the country has truly lost relevance in athletics. What it means is that once Okagbare fails, Nigeria automatically fails. Many of those who should have stepped into the shoes of the greats have simply walked away and taken up other country’s citizenship.

Surprisingly, with the exception of Gloria Alozie, who was already a world beater by the time she switched over to Spain, others hit the peak of their career after dumping Nigeria. For instance, just three years after Francis Obikwelu decided to compete for Portugal, he won the Olympic 100 metres silver medal in Athens 2004 in a new European record of 9.86 seconds, while Femi Ogunode who represents Qatar holds the Asian record at 9.91 seconds. Nigerian record holder, Olusoji Fasuba, whose time of 9.85 seconds is also an African record, dumped athletics for the British navy.

Nigeria’s descent into irrelevance sharply contrasts with the rise of stars from South Africa and Ivory Coast, not to mention the Kenyans, who have managed to stay the course over the years in the long and middle distance races. While Nigeria languished in the 31st position in Doha, Kenya placed second behind the US. If it is recalled that the Kenyans topped the medals in the 2015 edition of the competition in Beijing, China, it will be clear that Doha was not an accident. Besides, South Africa’s Wayde Nierkerk now holds the world record of 43.03 seconds in the 400 metres, having long consigned Egbunike’s African record of 44.17 to history.

Things cannot just continue this way. Sport administrators, not just the AFN, but the ministry and enthusiasts, who always concentrate on football, should sit up and see to the rebirth of athletics. An investment in sport is an investment in the youth. Sport is not just a pastime as some people think, it is a veritable diplomatic tool and means of moulding the character of young citizens who would otherwise have become deviants in society.

There has to be a renewed interest in school sport, which was the conveyor belt that churned out most of the golden generation athletes. States should start grooming athletes instead of relying on the poaching of finished products as is currently the practice. The case of Anambra State born Ebelechukwu Agbapuonwu, who won the 400 metres gold medal for Bahrain in Doha as Salwa Eid Naser, shows that there are many talents waiting to be uncovered in Nigeria and only hard work can ensure that. The age-grade competitions have to return. They were the platform that produced the stars of the past.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]