Minister seeks proper sports facilities maintenance, hails MoC
Sodiq Oyeleke

Minister of Youth and Sports, Sunday Dare, has expressed concerns over absence of good maintenance culture of sporting facilities in the country.

He said this when he visited athletes of Making of Champions Track Club at the Teslim Balogun Stadium, Lagos.

Dare said sporting facilities in the country needed to be adequately managed for athletes to be able to prepare for competitions.

He said, “I’m not happy that over the years we’ve not had a maintenance culture in terms of maintenance and management of these facilities that has deprived our athletes of the necessary structure to train. We’ll pay attention to restoring some of these major facilities, not just the football pitches or the terraces, but I’ve also been to the indoor sports stadium.

“I’ve seen weightlifting and a couple of areas in which we can see clearly from Morocco, we’re really strong in: wrestling, weightlifting, table tennis, badminton. We need to bring back some of these sporting facilities, and government is determined to do that, working with the private sector, and that process is already ongoing.”

Pledging the sports ministry’s supports for MoC athletes, the minister also commended the efforts of MoC founder, Bambo Akani, towards raising athletes that could potentially make the country proud on the global stage.

“Making of Champions is gradually becoming an institution; it’s becoming a model that the ministry will replicate. The message today is that the ministry recognises what Bambo and his team are doing with MoC; it’s commendable. We will encourage you and support you for your training and camping as the case may be,” he added.

Akani noted that the minister’s visit would spur the MoC to do more, saying, “It is a humbling experience for us. It is a step in the right direction. Getting that national recognition is going to be an encouragement for us to redouble our efforts going into the 2020 Olympics. We look forward to the support he promised and working with the sports ministry to help make Nigeria athletics great.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]