ICPC quizzes more NFF officials
Sodiq Oyeleke

The Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission have invited more officials of the Nigeria Football Federation for questioning over the ongoing corruption investigation.

The ICPC is currently investigating officials of the NFF over alleged corruption and “having more than what they could have earned.”

In the first phase of the investigation, no fewer than 15 properties belonging to NFF president, Amaju Pinnick; NFF Head Technical Committee, Ahmed Yusuf; NFF second vice president, Shehu Dikko; and General Secretary, Mohammed Sanusi, were seized.

Checks by The PUNCH on Tuesday revealed that apart from Head, Women’s Football Unit, NFF, Ruth David, that was earlier invited, NFF’s first vice president, Seyi Akinwunmi, was also invited.

Both David and Akinwunmi are not part of the four officials whose properties were seized by the ICPC and no case has been publicly established against them yet.

Sources in the ICPC told our correspondent that the officials were invited to answer questions relating to their involvement in the ongoing investigation of the football ruling body.

“Seizure of the properties is the first phase of the investigation. Many officials of the NFF are under investigation and this is another phase,” the source added.

When contacted, the spokesperson of the ICPC, Mrs Rasheedat Okoduwa, refused to give details of the ICPC’s officials questioning sessions with the newly invited NFF officials.

READ ALSO: Ogun driver arrested for defiling 12-year-old daughter

She also declined to comment on the extent of the investigation, but confirmed that Akinwunmi was invited.

“Yes, he (Akinwunmi) was invited, but he came here last week. Investigation is ongoing,” she added.

Asked when the NFF officials may be arraigned, the ICPC spokesperson responded, “Our investigation is still ongoing. These things have stages, when we get to that stage, we will act accordingly.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]