Nahimana hails fans after Lagos Open win
‘Tosin Oluwalowo

Winner of the first leg of the women’s singles of the Lagos Open International Tennis Championships, Sada Nahimana, says the support she got from the Lagos crowd helped her clinch the title.

In a chat with our correspondent after defeating fifth seed, Laura Pigossi, in the final on Monday, the Burundian teenager said the fans were behind her even when she was losing hope, after losing the first set.

Brazilian Pigossi had claimed the first set 6-2, but the No.1 ranked youth player in Africa rallied back to win the second set and also claim the third deciding set.

Nahimana won 2-6, 6-4, 6-3 to claim the $25,000 prize money.

“Laura was really tough, she was really good and she has been playing a lot of matches. Yesterday (Sunday), she played two matches and she won both of them. Today (Monday), she was also playing really well again, and I knew I had to step up my game; I had to fight because this is the final. I have come all the way and I just have to fight and I was fighting and playing my game through the end,” she told Sports Extra.

“I think I had the crowd today, the crowd was with me and I think I had the heart, I was really fighting with my heart and I was playing, taking every single point.

“I’m really excited (to be winning this for Africa), a journalist told me earlier that if I win this, it’s going to be a long time that an African had won it, I’m really happy that I have won it here, because the crowd was really with me since the first day and I’m really happy. The court is nice and the environment is friendly. The weather wasn’t good last week, but today, the weather was really good.

“The crowd in Lagos are just amazing, they were with me all through, from the first point to the last point today, without them, I don’t think I could have won this match, because I really gave up after the first set but they were just urging me on and I was just playing and they were motivating me, I’m really happy for that,” she also said.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]