Selecao, Eagles battle at custom designed stadium
Solape Lawal-Solarin

The much-publicised international friendly showdown between the Super Eagles and five-time world champions, Brazil, takes place on Sunday (tosay) at the world’s only custom-designed stadium that hosts rugby, cricket, football and athletics.

The South-East Asian nation is not a stranger to hosting international football competitions, most especially European clubs on pre-season commitments. The likes of Manchester United, Juventus, Inter Milan, Liverpool, City, Benfica have all made trips to the city state in recent years.

But, this term, the country will host the international friendly between the Eagles and the Selecao at the 55,000 capacity National Stadium in Kallang.

Sports Extra profiles the stadium to host this titanic clash.

BACKGROUND

The National Stadium is a multi-purpose sports arena located in Kallang. It was opened on June 30, 2014, replacing the former National Stadium at the same site, which was closed in 2007 and demolished in 2010.

CAPACITY

The 35-hectare (350,000 sqm) Singapore Sports Hub is made up of a number of sports and recreational facilities. The centre piece of the Sports Hub is the 55,000-capacity National Stadium with a dome-shaped retractable roof.

RECORD ATTENDANCE

It recorded 52,897 spectators on July 20 in an International Champions Cup match between Premier League giants Manchester United and Serie A heavyweights Inter.

INTERESTING FACTS

It is the only stadium in the world custom designed to host football, rugby, cricket and athletics events.

The National Stadium has an innovative bowl cooling system, where cool air of 23 degrees is pumped from underneath all seats, using less than 15 per cent of the energy required for similar conventional air-conditioned stadiums.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]