Cash donations: Intrigues, scheming behind Eagles’ sharing formula
Correspondents JOHNNY EDWARD and KELVIN EKERETE write on the wrangling and intrigues involved in sharing cash donations in the Super Eagles, in this report

Katsuya Takasu. Remember him?

He is the wealthy Japanese surgeon who donated $14,000 to each member of Nigeria’s bronze medal winning U-23 men’s football team at the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio, Brazil.

The squad, coached by Samson Siasia and captained by Mikel Obi, were rewarded with a total donation of $390,000 by the doctor, who followed their tumultuous story on their way to arriving Brazil few hours to their opening game of the global sports event.

The team’s achievements were all the more remarkable considering the off-field difficulties they had to pass through.

While the NFF failed to arrange a flight to Manaus, venue of the U-23 team’s opener, early enough, a private plane chartered by the Federal Government turned out to be too small for the team’s delegation, with the players only arriving Brazil hours before their opening 5-4 win against Japan.

Takasu monitored it all.

Again, the squad boycotted training ahead of their 2-0 quarter-final win over Denmark, over unpaid bonuses.

Takasu followed the team’s progress and after Siasia complained that they had not received promised allowances, he pledged a gift of $200,000 plus an additional $10,000 per player if they won a bronze medal.

The Japanese benefactor made good his promise, flying to Brazil to watch the Nigerians beat Honduras 3-2 to claim bronze, and presented the cheques, one for $200,000 and the bronze reward of $190,000, to Mikel and Siasia respectively.

However, Takasu’s donation caused ripples in the country’s football nay sports sector as it generated one controversy or the other then.

The NFF said they were cautious of such cash gifts, while then sports minister Solomon Dalung disassociated himself from it.

But some stakeholders raised concerns over a possibility of the NFF hijacking the donation from the team.

Peterside Idah, a South Africa-based football analyst and former goalkeeper of the Super Eagles, raised the alarm on Twitter that the federation had hijacked the funds from the team members.

He tweeted, “More trouble in the dream team (U-23 team) camp…the money from the Japanese man to the dream team has been hijacked by the NFA (NFF).They want to use the money to pay the coaches as salaries…”

This sparked reactions among the country’s football faithful, who condemned the NFF’s alleged action.

The NFF replied Idah, describing his Twitter post as “mischievous” for “suggesting the federation wanted to ‘hijack’ the donation to the team by Japanese plastic surgeon, Dr. Katsuya Takasu.”

“His (Idah’s) message was a lie, an atrocious false alarm before an important match. I had exchanged correspondence with the minister on the issue of the donation and we agreed that there was need for caution. The minister said to me that he read the donation in the papers and had expressed serious concern,” NFF president Amaju Pinnick was quoted as saying in a press statement by the football body on August 12, 2016.

“I also received a mail from the NFF Integrity Officer, who expressed very serious concern with this kind of donation…The NFF may be having financial challenges, but nobody in the federation is interested in that money.

“If we get the government’s go-ahead to collect the money, no official of the NFF will be involved even in the collection. The money will be received directly by the team.”

In an interview with SUNDAY PUNCH three years ago, Siasia however confirmed that the sports ministry and the NFF officials did not request for the money from the team, contrary to insinuations in some quarters.

“No, not at all. The man (Takasu) brought the money by himself and he brought two cheques for me and the captain, Mikel. That was what happened,” he said.

Three months after the Japanese fulfilled his promise amid controversies, the players got their share of the money.

However, only the 18 players who made the final list to the games got $14,000 each, while Taiwo Awoniyi, Stanley Dimgba, Yusuf Mohammed and Godwin Saviour, all on standby, received N1m each.

It is believed that head coach Siasia pocketed the lion share of the largesse.

That was three years ago.

Is there a sharing formula on how cash donations, aside camp allowances and match bonuses, should be shared amongst national team members? Are senior players, captains and head coaches entitled to larger chunks of such donations? Are federation officials entitled to a share as well?

Former Eagles media officer Ben Alaiya sheds some light on the process behind how such cash is shared.

“Some of those promised donations were not fulfilled during our time but those that were received by the team were shared equally by the entire squad, including the backroom staff,” Alaiya, a member of the 2013 AFCON winning squad coached by the late Stephen Keshi, said.

“The same formula used in how team members received bonuses was applied. Keshi got highest amount from the donations, followed by his assistants, the players and the backroom staff in that order.”

On whether NFF officials were also factored in during sharing, Alaiya added, “There is no way money comes to the team without the NFF’s knowledge.

“In fact, most times, Dayo Enebi, a staff of the federation, paid the monies to the bank accounts of team members.”

At the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt, the Super Eagles received the total sum of $725,000 in donations.

Billionaire businessman Aliko Dangote donated $50,000, Femi Otedola $25,000, Captain Hosa Wells-Okunbor ($460,000), Governor of Lagos State, Babatunde Sanwo-Olu, splashed $115,000 as well as NFF partners, Aiteo, who coughed out $75,000 to the team for the three goals scored against Cameroon in the Round of 16.

However, it was learnt that some prominent team members, especially the senior players, agitated that they got more than the others.

Some others, who had more game time or contributed more to the success of the team, felt they deserved more from the largesse.

Sunday Oliseh, who captained the Eagles from 1998 to 2002, told one of our correspondents that during his era, cash donations were shared equally despite these issues.

“We all know where we come from, the culture and the background is more like a familiar one. It’s built around families,” he said.

“So, there was no point from the outset to device a sharing formula.

“We all got the same amount from the bonuses and donations that came our way because we played as a team. Some players were not happy about that but the influential players in the team made it work.”

Emmanuel Amuneke, who had 39 caps for the Eagles from 1993 to 2001, with eight goals, said any talk of a sharing formula was quickly quashed as the players felt such could cause camp disunity.

“It was always equal. Though some players wanted more because they played more games than others during major tournaments and during the qualifiers, but it was always settled when it got to that,” he said.

“Most of us who were advocates of the equal sharing formula of the gift believed that such move would bring about disunity in the team and it would also affect the team’s bonding.”

It was learnt that the reign of Austin Okocha, Nwankwo Kanu, Joseph Yobo, Vincent Enyeama and Mikel Obi as captains of the national team also followed same trend.

A former Eagles defender, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “There was no time we played and got rewarded differently.

“So long as the cash was meant for the team, we all got the same share. But there were some instances that some players were rewarded individually, which was not announced, and nobody complained.”

Sometimes, the money could also be used for charity work as well as assist team members, a backroom staff of the 2013 AFCON-winning squad, hinted.

“The money belongs to the team and they decide what they do with it,” our source said.

“Most times they give a large chunk of the money to charity which is not disclosed to the media, they also fund some expenses with the money such as helping a fellow teammate with wedding plans and purchasing of gifts.

“The money sometimes takes care of emergency regarding the welfare of the players.”

But current Eagles media officer Toyin Ibitoye disclosed that there were cases when some players were paid more than the others.

“Each time there was a donation, the money was received by the team’s secretary, Dayo Enebi, who shared accordingly. Most times the funds are shared equally. The only time funds were shared per game was the (2018) World Cup bonus from FIFA, where some players got more than others.”

FIFA actually doled out $79m to 2018 World Cup teams for their preparations, players and performances, but the cash were technically awarded to the various teams’ national federations. The federations then decide how they distributed the money, which means players in some countries profited a lot more than others.

Kylian Mbappé, who starred for winners France at the 2018 World Cup, donated all of his bonus and match fees, totalling £360,000, to Preiers de Cordees, a sports charity for people with disabilities.

There were no reported cash donations from individuals and private organisations in France for the team.

“When playing a World Cup, it’s a pleasure, because it’s a dream come true,” Mbappe’s teammate Samuel Umtiti told L’Equipe. “So yes, there is money at stake. But I do not care. I do not play for that.”

Greece’s 2014 World Cup squad also asked for their £50,000 Last 16 bonus to be given to their national team’s future.

The players said, “We only play for Greece and its people.”

In England, the Three Lions’ appearance fees for matches go to the England Footballers Foundation, which works with charities including Unicef, Cancer Research and Help for Heroes. Cash donations are hardly given to the team by individuals, government or private firms for victories.

But it’s a different ball game in Nigeria, where players and officials alike scramble for bonuses and cash donations, sometimes causing embarrassment to the country at global competitions.

After the Eagles’ third place-finish at the 2019 AFCON, some stakeholders and fans kicked against donations to the national teams, arguing that the players were honouring a call to serve and were paid bonuses while discharging their national duties.

One of the donors at the 2019 AFCON, Governor Sanwo-Olu, was slammed on social media by Lagos residents for splashing $115,000 ($5,000 per player) in Egypt, while the state was grappling with bad roads and poor social amenities.

So should donations to the Eagles be encouraged?

“Yes,” says Tokunbo Oni, a customer service agent.

“My belief is that in the course of discharging your duties, anything extra, like financial appreciation, will make you do better. But there needs to be a check and balance, so that players don’t just switch off because they want people to promise them money.”

But sports administrator Shuiab Gara-Gombe describes the practice as “philanthropic hypocrisy.”

He said, “The act of donating money to football players on national duty is hypocrisy. This has been happening in football for over 25 years in Nigeria. This is not just limited to the individual philanthropists alone. Even corporate organisations under the pretence of corporate social responsibility claim to love the Super Eagles more than every other Nigerian with such donations.

“It’s not out of genuine love and concern. They can fund and sponsor developmental programmes from the grassroots to produce more champions; that way the effect will be generally felt.

“You will never see these philanthropists anywhere, it is only when our teams win laurels, they ambush them with money and pretend that they love the team. For these hypocrisy, they get free media attention, which is primarily their aim.”

Adokiye Amiesiamaka, a 1980 AFCON winner added, “It depends on the purpose (for which the donations are given). Anybody can decide to boost the morale of the players by donating funds to them. Another way is to say, ‘if you win this game, I’d host you to dinner.’

“At such dinner, the donation can be handed to the officials and players. But it’s not right to go to the press announcing donations to a team.”

Ifeanyi Onyeziri, a lawyer, is of the opinion that promising incentives to sportspeople to perform a service to their country is not good for sports development.

He said, “In Nigeria, I think we keep getting our priorities wrong. I strongly do not agree with people giving donations to the Eagles or any other national team to boost their morale before or after a match.

“These guys are already earning a lot from their clubs, they are getting allowances from each match they play, win or draw, and their flights are scheduled by the federation, with some of them flying first class. To top it all, they are representing the biggest black nation in the world. What other motivation do they need to do their jobs?

“I think paying them extra is not just ridiculous but not good for the health of our sports.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]