Gara Gombe warns Nigeria against hosting Women’s W’Cup
Sodiq Oyeleke

A former member of the Nigeria Football Federation Reforms Committee, Gara Gombe, has urged President Muhammad Buhari not to allow Nigeria to host the 2020 FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup.

Nigeria is bidding to be the first African country to host the 2020 FIFA Women’s World Cup after hosting the men’s U-20 World Cup in 1999 and the U-17 version 10 years later.

But the former Chairman of Gombe Football Association said hosting the competition won’t be in the interest of Nigeria.

He told The PUNCH on Sunday that the fund to be spent in hosting the competition could be used to develop the Nigeria Professional Football League and Nigeria Women Football League.

Gombe claimed that previous competitions hosted by Nigeria had no impact on football development in the country.

“Nigerians will campaign against it (hosting the competition) because it is not in our interest, unless we are informed in clear terms whether it is of commercial or developmental values to us as a nation.

“It is not going to be favourable to us. It is unnecessary at this time, we don’t need it. What is the potential of the commercial purposes? If it is of commercial value, they should make it known, so that we can weigh what we are putting in and we will get.

“If it is for developmental purposes, they should tell us how previous FIFA grants were spent. No country goes to bid for a World Cup from FIFA without considering the commercial value.”

He urged the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, not to be misled by officials of the NFF, saying, “He (the minister) should avoid similar mistakes made by his predecessor, Solomon Dalung.”

An inspection team from FIFA led by Heyral Kaj Jurgen, visited Nigeria in August to assess facilities in Lagos, Benin City, Asaba and Uyo.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]