Eagles could have won 2019 AFCON – Mikel
Former Chelsea star, Obi Mikel, now with Trabzonspor in Turkey, granted an interview with the club magazine, where he opened up on his switch to the Liga club, life in Turkey and other sundry issues

What was the most important factor in choosing this place?

When the offer came from Trabzonspor, I first met Onazi and Nwakaeme. I asked them questions about the city and the club. They also said that Trabzonspor is an ambitious club aiming high and trying to go beyond last year’s success. I’ve heard very positive things about the team. Then I met our president,who told me about the future plans of the club. After the interview I was completely convinced.

What was going on in your mind when Trabzonspor showed up?

After many years of Chelsea adventure, I played football for a short time in China. Then I went back to England. When you learn the culture, when you see inside the organization, it will provide you with important contributions to Turkey and Besiktas. I believe Tranbzonspor will make a significant contribution to my career. For the moment, we haven’t been getting the results we wanted as a team. When we change this, everything will be very nice. The only thing missing is the results on the pitch.

What do you have to say about the fans’ reception and airport pick-up?

It was really great, an amazing experience. I’ve never been here before. As far as I know, I’m not the only one to have experienced the fans’ love and support other new recruits were greeted in this way. As players, you want to do your best to repay the fans when you’re welcomed this way. I hope we can have a good season and thank them in our own way.

What can you say about the technical committee and the players?

When I came here, I saw a football family in front of me. You feel like you’re in the family. I saw technical delegations and professionals together with a group of actors who were integrated, loving each other and working together.

When I first came, I experienced the difficulties of change for myself. This is a normal case, because you need to get used to a new culture and system. It’s time-consuming. However, from the moment I came to the club I was greeted very well by everyone. We have a great technical committee.

The cast is of high quality both in talent and human qualities. However, as I mentioned earlier, the challenges of change were initially there. Especially with Sturridge, we saw training differences. So we try to keep up with it. I think I’m getting better physically. When I first arrived, I could say I was physically behind the team. But right now I’m trying to get to the same level.

How do you relate with the players in the team? How do you find the skill level of our players and the infrastructure?

One of the first things that stood out was the quality of the young people in the academy. Then I discovered that the system of the club was to train young players and promote them to the main team. I think the young players are very talented.

I also share my experiences in training and try to help them do the right thing. For example, I remembered a particular training with the team, where I saw Abdürkadir Ömür and said “wow.. He’s an incredibly talented player. It’s a pity he’s crippled, I wish he wasn’t. However, even if he is disabled, the whole world can see how talented he is. Having such players and being able to play is very positive for the team.

How did you feel on your debut with the team?

I’m a player who missed camp early in the season. No matter how hard you try, missing camp at the beginning of the season, will always affect your performance. You’re forced to try and reach the same level as your teammates in a short time. I had a hard time in the first game. Apart from that, being with the team, traveling with the team and being able to fight on the same field was really a great feeling. It was a nice experience for me.

What kind of mission do you think you’re carrying?

I think my mission is very clear. Last season there was a very successful team. And the team is now aiming for further success. So I’m trying to help the team achieve this goal. In short, my mission is to help the team.

However, it is difficult to get involved and kick-off straightaway. I had this problem in the beginning, but now I can tell I’m used to it. We know the expectations of the fans, the team and our coacg. In order to meet these expectations, I would like to contribute by drawing inspiration from my wealth of experience and what I have done on the field as Trabzonspor continues its campaign in both the league and Europe.

How do you see the team’s chances in these two competitions?

I think it is necessary to evaluate the league and Europe separately. Although they are similar competitions, they have different qualities. For example, while the European League is a short-distance race, the league is a long marathon.

There are too many matches to play in the league and you can go through too many processes. This part was quite difficult for us. You need time when you transfer new players. However, if you are very lucky, all the pieces will fit right into place. This is not an easy situation though, due to the nature of the work, time is needed. You need to know your teammates and know what they can do. This will improve. But as I always say, time is needed.

What can you say about our fans and the atmosphere they create?

Our fans are truly incredible. The atmosphere they create in the stadium and their support have been very impressive. As the 12th man, they supported whatever the outcome of the match.

This is a football town. Football has a very important place in people’s lives. I even saw some of our fans live football. This also piles pressure on the players but, I’m a player who likes to play under pressure because, I’ve never been a simple person. I like being criticized. You can succeed as long as you can remove the print. Guess, this was what made me play in a great club like Chelsea for 12 years and gain so much success. I would be very happy if I could achieve similar successes with Trabzonspor.

What do you think about the quality of the league?

I think the quality of the league is very good. When you look at the players in the league you can see that there are many good players. It was very important for me to be able to come here and witness it. The transfers of the teams reveal how much they want to be successful in the league. We have the same idea as a team. I think it’s going to be a tough league race this year. I don’t even think there’s going to be a big difference between the reigning champions and the others. Before the ball comes to you, you’ve to prepare yourself for the pass, thinking about your next move.

How often do you play the ball up front?

I think these are innate things. I think there are things built specifically for certain conditions. By building I mean to know the characteristics of your teammates. You need to know if your friend wants the ball on his feet or in front of him. In short, if you know each other everything is easier. Things can get hard if you don’t know each other well.

Let us go back to the beginning we knew that your football career began at the Football Academy in Nigeria, where you were chosen from three thousand people. How do you explain this audition success?

If we go back to how it all began, I started football on the streets. We were trying to play football with anything that looks like a ball without football shoes and sometimes without a football. Sometimes we didn’t even have clothes on. The financial situation of our families was not good.

My career developed very quickly after I went for a trial at the academy. I got a foreign offer immediately without playing too much in the domestic league. I’m always the best and the highest, I want to transmit this energy to Trabzonspor.

I want to give the best contribution I can give to my team. I’m still hungry for success, I want to achieve success, I aim to be able to do new things at the highest level and I feel I can do it. Football is a lifestyle for me. I’m thankful they gave me football. Football gave me many things I wanted in my life.

Are there any other players in the family?

My family is literally full of football players. My father played football during his childhood. We’re five boys in the family. My father always says that we inherited our talent for football. Two of my brothers played football before calling it quit. My other two brothers are still playing. My youngest brother continues his career as a goalkeeper in Nigeria. I hope he has a good career. I remembered in 2002, at the age of 15, he was transferred to Plateau (Plateau) United, in Jos where he was born, and played for two years.

In 2004 you switched from FK Norwegian to FK Lyn Oslo. Did you experience any difficulties coming to Europe?

In fact, I was transferred to the club at the age of 15 as a result of the policy of Chelsea as regards young players. Premier League is a really tough league. It’s hard to go straight there and play. You also need to meet the requirements of the league. I went to Lyn to pursue my individual development and to keep up with European football. I think I did a good job despite my young age.

In 2006, when you were 21, you transferred to Chelsea for 20 million euros. What are those features that make you different from other players?

It’s a pleasure for Chelsea shell out such a high fee. This figure shows your value as a player in a sense. And I can say that I enjoyed my stay at Chelsea. Initially, the league and the rhythm of the game affected me but, when I got used to it, I began to enjoy it.

You’ve had a lot of success in Chelsea, where you’ve been for years. What can you say about this stability and success?

When I look back at that period, I am happy and very proud. Chelsea always aim for success, success is a kind of necessity for a club to work. Playing with very important names, winning important victories makes me happy as a football player.

In such clubs, you must always be disciplined, always go in the same direction. At Chelsea, we had very good team leaders like Frank Lampard, John Terry, Didier Drogba and Petr Cech. These names always led the team to success. When such leaders guide you, it becomes easier to become successful. This is one of the things I want to add to Trabzonspor. It’s like directing my teammates and emphasizing the importance of discipline. As a person and as a player, I continue to learn. You need to learn the values in life. As a footballer I continue to learn about these issues, I try to improve myself.

What are your plans after you quit football?

I haven’t really made up my mind. Sometimes I want to stay in football, and sometimes I plan to continue my life as a businessman. My indecision continues. I’ll think about it in time.

You left the captaincy of the national team. What was the reason for this decision?

I served the national team for 13 years, larger part of those years as captain. In this process, we have achieved significant successes as a team. I first wanted to leave in 2013, but as a result of our negotiations with the authorities, I decided to continue. We currently have very talented young players. They’re all bright. I think these players can handle the challenges. I had to make room for them. Besides, I don’t have many years of football in front of me. I want to focus on my team.

How do you assess your third-place position at the Africa Cup of Nations?

Our team did a good job, we could do more, we could have won the tournament, but it was unfortunate. We have a very good national team and I think they can achieve significant success in the future. I will continue to give them my best support.

What do you do to keep yourself fit?

I try to live a simple and disciplined life. I try to eat healthy, sleep healthy and rest well. As you gain experience, you can see how much benefit and harm you can do to yourself if you care less about what you consume. My luck was my girlfriend. She helped me stay in shape by preparing very nice and healthy food in London.

All successes are valuable, but Chelsea won the Champions League title. Can you tell me about those moments?

It was an incredible feeling it was a great night. It was amazing that we defeated Bayern Munich on their home turf. Drogba scored a goal, and into penalties we were champions. Like every footballer, my dream came true. Every footballer has to live this feeling.

Your father, Michael Obi, was kidnapped twice by kidnappers in 2011 and 2018. In both cases, you were appreciated for your steadfastness in a way that no one on earth could easily exhibit. Can you share with us the experience?

It was a very difficult process for me and my family. I heard about the first incident before a league game. When my coach asked me if I am ready to play, I told him that I had to play because of my job. In fact, I was crying deep inside, I remembered the moments when my eyes were filled with tears during the match. But I could only save my father by giving him money, and I was making money by playing football.

The second time I was in the national team. We were going to play against Argentina in the World Cup. I got the news before this match, but I didn’t share it with anyone because I couldn’t tell the team about it. I tried to fight this problem by myself. Then I saved my dad by paying again. One of the events that upset me was the fact that I was experiencing such an event while struggling for the national team.

Messi was awarded the FIFA player of the year award. You think that’s the right decision? Who would you vote for if you could?

Absolutely! Messi. To me, Messi is the best player ever. I think that Ronaldo got to this level by working hard. Messi has the abilities given by God. Therefore, he deserved the award at the end.

What do you think of the Turks?

I would say that the Turks are very warm and wonderful people. In England, for example, people must have known each other for a long time before they can cling to each other tightly. Here people can trust you and make you feel happy. In China, people are a little more distant from each other, they just focus on what they do.

Can you tell us your first impressions from the moment you came into town? And what are your thoughts on food?

First of all, I have to emphasize that the food is great. Compared to fish dishes in the UK, I like them more. The city is a football city. If you have football in mind, you’re in the right place. I’m already here to play football. So I think I’m in the right place and I’m very happy to be here. My whole family lives in London. I miss them naturally, but after all, I do a job. I have to pay for this. I’m trying to be a part of the family here. I want to help my team achieve their goals. I am here to do what I can to achieve success this year and in the coming seasons.

COURTSEY OF 61SAAT.COM