NFF: We don’t owe Rohr three months salary
…football body clears air on Dennerby’s situation

Ebenezer Bajela

The Nigeria Football Federation has denied claims that they owe Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, a three-month salary as reported on social media on Friday, saying the Franco-German is owed a month salary, which is in line to be paid.

The federation also used the opportunity to clear the air on the issue of ex-Super Falcons coach Thomas Dennerby, who resigned in September.

“The NFF wishes to put records straight with regards to a claim in the social media on Friday, 11th October 2019 that the football house is owing Super Eagles’ Technical Adviser, Gernot Rohr, three months’ salary,” the federation tweeted.

“As we speak, Mr. Rohr is only being owed salary for the month of September 2019, which is being processed.”

On the Swede, NFF wrote, “As for Mr. Thomas Dennerby, we have received his resignation letter and of course, he has his right to resign from a job.

“We want to put it on record that no Head Coach in the history of the Super Falcons has been afforded the level and readiness of support that has been provided Mr. Dennerby by this Board.

“Perhaps, one of the reasons he left was because we did not accede to his request to bring in more expatriate coaches and an indigenous coach who do not have the required license.

READ ALSO: INEC warns against vote-buying in Kogi, Bayelsa

“If we had agreed to his request for more expatriate coaches, that would have left our indigenous coaches presently with the team in the lurch.”

“Perhaps, one of the reasons he left was because we did not accede to his request to bring in more expatriate coaches and an indigenous coach who do not have the required license.

“If we had agreed to his request for more expatriate coaches, that would have left our indigenous coaches presently with the team in the lurch.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]