Why I dumped sports for entertainment –Bob-Manuel
Popular Nigerian actor Bob-Manuel Udokwu talks about his sports life and why he chose entertainment ahead of sports, in this interview with EBENEZER BAJELA

How much of sports were you involved in while growing up?

I wasn’t involved in sports in much different ways than most young people in terms of enthusiasm. I remember I tried playing football like every young boy back in the day and I was involved in long jump. That was the much I did back then.

Why didn’t you continue?

At some point, I realised that I wasn’t too naturally talented in that area. But I tried to see how far I could go playing football and see if I could get selected for the school team. But I was displaying remarkable skills and talents in some areas, especially in terms of creativity. I guess those ones manifested clearly in such a way that it could meet everybody, even though I didn’t realise that I was going to further it as a career.

Since you couldn’t play football, are you still a fan of the game?

Yes, I still watch football but not in the same way most people watch it, like an addiction. Though I used to, but I had to caution myself about the health effects of being addicted to something which made your adrenaline pump. So, I restricted myself to very little of international matches. I try to stay away from final matches even if it is Nigeria, despite finding myself really wanting to watch. It is the epitome of a tournament where the last two teams are fighting for the ultimate prize and it is always tension-filled and expectations are very high.

Is there any Nigeria match that you regret watching?

Yes. It was at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa, when Nigeria played against Greece and we had a player (Sani Kaita) unjustifiably sent off when he didn’t even know that the ball was out of play, came back and pushed an opponent. That was the beginning of the end for Nigeria. I was there at the stadium.

Do you support any club in Europe?

No, I don’t. The simple reason is that we kill ourselves over them here, but over there, they hardly know that there are millions of supporters in Nigerians who exist. Why can’t all these teams that Nigerians support so much establish football academies in Nigeria? Why haven’t they on their own come down here for talent hunt? What is the use of my supporting them when they hardly knew that there are millions of potential in Nigeria? Having Barcelona academy and Madrid academy is not a pass mark because they are drops in a very big ocean. I am not impressed with them.

READ ALSO: Ihedioha adopts pupil for outstanding performance

If you are to change anything in the Nigerian sports sector, what will that be?

Unprofessionalism. There are lots of things you hear happening in the sports circle in Nigeria. We are not baffled though, because we know that our country has to deal with corruption at every level of our development and sports is part of it. Football for instance is talent-driven and God gives talent freely, so I don’t think we should bring quota system into football. We should let the best people from anywhere represent us and bring us laurels even if they are from the same mother. Instead of trying to play quota system, which will enable every tribe in Nigeria represented in our national team. We should try to get the best in every area. If we know that the Ijaw people are good swimmers and they can get us gold, let all our national swimmers come from Ijaw. And if the Fulani herdsmen that trek miles with cows can do long distance running and outrun the Kenyans, let’s get the best of them with stamina to beat the Kenyans and Ethiopians, so they can get us gold medals.

Who would you pick as the greatest footballer of all time?

The man call Edson Arantes do Nascimento, the one the world know as Pele is the greatest of all time.

Will you encourage your children to get involved in sports?

My personal experience going into the entertainment industry when people were running away, has left me with no choice but to accept whatever career my children choose for themselves. It is in their best interest. The world is a dynamic place and it is changing unlike in the 70s and 80s when the likes of Segun Odegbami, Christian Chukwu, Emma Okala and the rest were playing. People didn’t know that football would get to the level which it is today. Some of those who were highly skilled and talented and were deprived of actualising their potentials in football today are regretting.

If any of my children displays any form of skill in any sport, I will encourage him or her because that will be breaking a new ground that could set world record. If they show propensity for singing, who knows, they could win Grammy and people would start taking their children to the studio to record whether they have a good voice or not. Bob-Manuel is a simple man and I don’t even hesitate to answer that.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]