Nigerians berate NFF on Rohr, Dennerby tweet
Ebenezer Bajela

Nigerians have reacted to the tweet of the Nigeria Football Federation over the football body’s explanation on its inability to pay Super Eagles’ coach, Gernot Rohr, his September salary.

The angry fans also condemned the NFF for their handling of former Super Falcons’ coach Thomas Dennerby’s resignation.

Joseph Duru in reply to NFF’S tweet wrote, “Unintelligent response indeed. Please set a monthly payment date and stick to it. You can never achieve true success with disgruntled employees. And lastly, please stop embarrassing Nigerians by coming online to admit to owing just one month salary. The world is watching.”

Esang Ukpanah, also slammed the federation for their response.

“Imagine the response and admitting nationally that Super Eagles head coach (Gerhot Rohr)is just being owed a month and not three months, you all lack shame.

“What an unintelligent response. Please quickly pay up the outstanding salary and stop messing with our football.”

Reacting to the Dennerby saga, Klemz Phil said, “@thenff The question is at what point did you receive the resignation of Mr Dennerby? Why was Oparanozie not included on the team? Is it bad that a coach be allowed to work without interference? A panel should be set and all parties found guilty be punished.

“And the indigenous coaches that have taken over the team, have they done a good job? Is it not possible that he had accessed them and seen they were not up to scratch?”

Tsuka Ipashiri was more aggressive with his response to the NFF tweet.

“You people should continue playing with Nigerian football’s future until people will start identifying you people individually and beating you people.

“How do you expect us to believe your story when NFF has a reputation for messing up coaches and national teams?”

Adding to the stones thrown at the glass house members, Mykie Chuks tweeted, “Dennerby was a man that wanted to stay in the country and work but you guys being what you are, made him quit. Continue to kill Nigerian football… Very soon when there are no foreign-born players to play for us, we won’t be able to qualify for nations/w cup. And you will have no Agbada to flaunt.”

Uzoma akonwu wrote, “I only blame those who re-elected Amaju Pinnick. A dead wood killing Nigerian football.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]