I once crushed on Enyeama– Dede
Ex-Super Falcons goalkeeper and captain, Precious Dede, talks about her relationship with Vincent Enyeama, a close shave with rapists and more in this interview with SODIQ OYELEKE

How can you describe your journey as one of Falcons’ top keepers?

For me, it was not easy at all but I give thanks to God because I have the passion to play. It wasn’t really smooth but I thank God that it ended in praise.

Did you have parental support when you started?

No, my parents didn’t support me. My dad was a medical doctor and my mother a teacher. So, they wanted me to study and face my education. One of brothers tried to explain to them that I could combine both, but they refused. But I was able to sneak out, play and return without them knowing. I was beaten several times, in fact every day.

When did you start playing football?

I started at the age of eight. Then, I was playing, not keeping. I never wanted to be a keeper. I went for a festival game in Umuahia. Our two goalkeepers did not come, so our coach out of annoyance threw the goalkeepers jersey at me. I tried to return the jersey, but he insisted that I should go and man the posts, saying he was ready to lose the match. I kept very well and the game ended in penalties. We won the game and I was awarded best player of the match. That was how it all started.

Can you tell us about your educational background?

I was studying Theatre Arts at the University of Uyo before my parents both died. We are seven children in my family and I was the second to the last child. I thought of helping because we were all in school at that time. In fact, I left school and faced football to enable me make some money to take care of the family instead of everyone dropping out. I dropped out of school in 1999 and joined the Falcons in 2000. That was how I was able to train my siblings.

Do you regret dropping education for football?

I never regretted my action because I achieved why I left education for football. I was able to accomplish the purpose. I can go back to school any time.

Do you have any experience of being sexually assaulted?

Yes, I have had. When I went for the festival game in Umuahia, they nearly raped me. I jumped down from a two-storey building because of that. I have a lot to tell as a kid. I remember that every day, when I want to put on my shoes. I broke my right ankle and the scar is still there. At times, when I see a guy that looks like one of them – they were seven, it brings back the phobia I have for guys. People sometimes ask me why I am not married, but I know my reasons. But I thank God for where I am today. I was able to overcome.

So, would that affect your getting married?

No, I will be getting married very soon.

How have you been coping with advances from men?

It is easy. I am into a serious relationship and I cannot accept anyone else.

While playing, which sportsman would you say you crushed on?

It is Vincent Enyeama. We still keep in touch.

Why did you choose to end you career in 99 caps and not 100?

I gave myself 15 years to play. Making it 100 would mean that I would take another two to three years again. I joined Falcons in 2000 and left in 2015. I looked at my age, 20 years then; 15 more years meant I was 35 when I retired. I wanted to end when I was still in my peak. I wanted to leave football; I didn’t want football to leave me.

What is your worst regret as a footballer?

After so much opposition, I lmade it to the Falcons team in 2000, but my mother died the very day I came back from the Olympics (Sydney2000). That very day, I landed in the hospital to see her. That is the worst thing that has happened to me. I told my parents that I was going to make them proud, but she didn’t witness it.

What is your advice to parents?

Playing football as a girl should not mean that they are wayward or doing something wrong. For instance, when I jumped from the two-storey building, when I was running from the rapists, my dad asked me what happened and I told him. He wondered why I wanted to kill myself by jumping from two-storey building. I told him that even if I must do what they came for, I would do it with my boyfriend or husband. He was surprised that I had not done it before.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]