Confusion over Dennerby’s resignation
Sodiq Oyeleke

Confusion has trailed the alleged resignation of Super Falcons coach Thomas Dennerby and the Nigeria Football Federation.

This is coming after a recent claim by a board member of the NFF, Ibrahim Gusau, that Dennerby had tendered his resignation letter.

Dennerby had left his duty post citing lack of support and interference from federation officials. He was absent from the 2020 Olympic qualifiers against Ivory Coast, with the home-bred Christopher Danjuma in charge as the senior women’s side suffered a third consecutive elimination from the global games.

The NFF didn’t issue a statement on the Swede’s resignation but Gusau told journalists in Lagos that the NFF had started scouting for another coach, adding that Dennerby left when he was mostly needed.

“The coach (Dennerby) just went off along the line and sent the letter of his resignation, and you know it is going to be a very difficult task for whosoever is taking over to continue from there.

“We are not very clear what his grievances are and we are trying to see whatever the situation is so that we can move forward.

“For now, no one can tell you what the full content of the letter because we have not discussed it at the board.

“The next thing is for us to try and see how to have a formidable coaching crew. The moment the coach left the country, we try to put in a good coach crew to continue from where he stopped.”

But Dennerby, who earlier threatened to quit the Falcons’ job over non-payment of allowances and lack of official accommodation among others, in a recent interview clarified that he is still under contract with Nigeria.

“I am still under contract with Nigeria and currently focused on sorting out my future before thinking about what is next for me,” the 60-year-old gaffer said on September 22.

When contacted, the NFF spokesperson, Ademola Olajire, neither picked his calls nor responded to a text message sent to his mobile telephone line.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]