Oshoala, Oluehi lament Falcons Olympics ouster
Kelvin Ekerete

Super Falcons captain, Asisat Oshoala, says the team must move on from the disappointment of failing to book a ticket for the 2020 Olympics.

Falcons played out a 1-1 draw with Ivory Coast in a second leg Tokyo 2020 qualifier at the Agege Stadium in Lagos on Monday – a result that dashed hopes of qualifying for the Olympics for the first time in 12 years.

The Barcelona forward scored the equaliser in the 34th minute but the Ivorians were resolute in defence, holding on for the win on away goal rule.

Oshoala despite the disappointment insists that the players gave their best.

“It is just football, these things happen and we see it every day, sometimes you just have to take responsibility and let the whole thing out,” Oshoala told Sports Extra.

“The Ivorians were lucky to score from a direct free-kick which was an error from us, but I’m proud of the team.

“Everyone gave what they had but we were just unlucky not to have won.”

Oshoala called on the Nigeria Football Federation to resolve the team’s coaching crisis.

“We have to go back to the drawing board, try and get the technical crew together, get a good schedule for the team, try to get a proper structure, I think the federation knows what to do.”

Substitute goalkeeper, Tochukwu Oluehi, a member of the squad to the 2008 Olympics in Beijing also lamented the country’s absence from the Games in the last three editions.

“This is the third consecutive time we have failed to qualify for the Olympics, and there is no joy in the camp, everyone is sad and down,” she also told Sports Extra.

“It is a joyful feeling to play in the Olympics, I’ve been there, and I told them that the Olympics is different from any other competition they’ve been. It is just so sad we couldn’t win here.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]