Women footballers more outstanding than the men after 59 years – Falode
Chairperson, Nigeria Women’s Football League, Aisha Falode, spoke with TOSIN OLUWALOWO on how the country has fared in women’s football since Independence

In your view, what is the state of women’s football in Nigeria in the last 59 years?

The Nigerian women’s football has improved tremendously in the last 59 years. Since competitive women’s football began in 1982 in Nigeria, from a mere national competition in Lagos organised by Princess Bola Jegede with just eight clubs, the country’s league has developed such that it has become the number one in Africa. The Nigerian women’s league today with the board of the NWFL now competes favourably with other top men’s leagues in Nigeria in terms of followership, media coverage, social media presence and players’ prominence.By my estimation, Nigerian women’s football since Independence has given Nigeria more accolades and glories than the men’s. In the history of the African Women’s Championship, renamed African Women’s Nations Cup, the Nigerian women’s team (Super Falcons) have won nine editions out of a total 11 editions hosted by the Confederation of African Football from 1998 till date, while the men have won the men’s Nations Cup only three times. Even at the World Cup level, the women have been to all editions of their World Cup since they first qualified in 1991. The women played in the quarter finals of the World Cup at USA 1999.

For the men, the Eagles only played in their first World Cup at USA 94, and missed out of one of the editions in Germany 2006. A woman footballer, Maureen Mmadu, is the first Nigerian to get to 100 international caps in 2009. Today, the Women’s Premier League has a partnership with the La Liga Women’s League. And a large, number of Nigerian local players are today playing professional football in Europe, Asia and other parts of the world.

In what areas have we excelled as a nation?

In the women’s league, the board of the NWFL has developed the league and it is now the pride of Nigerian football, with all league games played as at when scheduled without home and away walkovers, as it used to be some years ago. Referees indemnities are paid by the league board, with match assessors also paid to monitor all games of the season. The Super 4 has been introduced for the first time in the history of the league. There is also the Champion’s Shield for Champion of Champions and Charity Cup, which holds between the winners of the league and winners of the FA Cup.

The national U-20 national team has played in all editions of the U-20 Women’s World Cup from 2002 till date. The Nigeria U-20 team, the Super Falconets are the third most successful team in the world in their category.

What areas have we failed to excel?

To be sincere, I will say in the area of sponsorship we have not been able to get to where we are supposed to be. But we are trying our best to get the desired sponsorship, and very soon that area will be covered.

What areas do the women’s football need help?

We obviously need serious backup and rescue in the area of sponsorship. Once we have it, we shall put smiles on the faces of Nigerian women’s footballers, the coaches, owners of the clubs and generality of Nigerian women’s football followers.

What further improvements should come to the female game in Nigeria?

Improved remunerations and welfare packages for the teams. Series of sponsors handling various aspects of the league, officiating inclusive. The Premier League clubs owning their own stadium and improved supporters hub for all the clubs.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]