Fans query Solomon-Otabor’s Eagles call-up
’Tosin Oluwalowo

The late call-up handed to Victor Solomon-Otabor for the friendly match between the Super Eagles and Brazil on October 13 has triggered reactions from Nigerian fans.

Gernot Rohr called Solomon-Otabor on Sunday to replace injured Bordeaux’s Samuel Kalu.

Many of the fans, who took to Twitter, queried the rationale behind inviting the Bulgaria-based forward ahead of other players.

They said there were other Nigerians who were doing better than him in Europe, who deserved the call-up.

“Nigeria Football will not move forward if we continue to invite players who don’t merit the call-up. So many Nigerians abroad who deserve call-ups but were ignore. The likes of Efosa (Otabor) and (Anderson) Esiti should be far from the Eagles,” Jide Lana tweeted.

His voice was re-echoed by Omobolaji Odubayo, who asked if the invitation was indeed handed out by Rohr himself.

He tweeted, “This replacement reeks of Nigeria Football Federation members’ selection. I don’t know if other UEFA Champions League players (David) Okereke or (Iyayi) Atienmwen that are yet to be invited before now can’t be called up or even (Henry) Onyekuru. I doubt Gernot Rohr invited this guy. Bulgaria?”

“They should have invited Sunusi Ibrahim of Nasarawa United, the highest goal scorer in the NPFL last season,” Shuaibu Sani added.

“This guy over (Chidera) Ejuke, Ebere Eze and co? Disappointed in Rohr. Thought we left these invitation of players as a result of bribery a way of our football,” Jeremy also tweeted.

Solomon-Otabor is yet to score but has a solitary assist in eight appearances for Bulgarian club CSKA Sofia this season.

He also had two goals with no assist in 20 appearances last season.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]