Blame game, division as Team Nigeria depart Doha
Sodiq Oyeleke

Team Nigeria athletes have expressed regrets and displeasure over the conduct of officials of the Athletics Federation Nigeria at the just-concluded World Athletics Championships in Doha.

While some said they were frustrated, others alleged that there was division in the team throughout their stay in Doha.

A mix-up among officials of the AFN reportedly led to the disqualification of Divine Oduduru and Blessing Okagbare, before both were reinstated after an appeal.

The AFN officials also allegedly made wrong selection in the relay races.

Though the athletes were persuaded not to speak about their challenges in the media, some of them could not hide their feelings.

Ese Brume, who won Nigeria’s only medal at the 2019 Doha, lamented that both the sports ministry and the AFN did little to support the athletes.

She said, “I will like to say to the ministry and the federation that they should try to support us because they are not helping but God has made it possible for me.

“I believe He will also make it possible for others. I want them to improve on support for us because they are not helping us at all.”

Also, a member of the Team Nigeria 4x100m, Ogho-Oghene Egwero, expressed displeasure over the team’s disunity.

He blamed delayed preparation for Team Nigeria’s poor outing at the competition and displeased that they were disqualified for line infringement in the men’s 4x100m event.

While speaking with journalists in Doha, Egwero said, “This is not the first time I would see that the team is not united. This is what I’ve seen for years. We need to go back to the basics and learn how relay is supposed to be run, not when it’s time for competitions, and then we start practicing.”

Oduduru lamented, “I was frustrated with my federation as IAAF has nothing to do with what happened to me because if my country does what they are supposed to do, IAAF won’t have issues with us.”

However, Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, said the country has learnt from their failure in Doha.

He stated that the team would now focus on “training and technicalities as we prepare for the Olympics.”

He tweeted, “Nigeria will remain focused for Tokyo because we still have medal hopefuls. We competed well in Doha. Lessons learnt. We will concentrate only on select sports where stats show we are strong.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]