Doha: Brume celebrates medal, Amusan displeased
Sodiq Oyeleke

After breaking Nigeria’s jinx of not winning a medal at the Athletics World Championships since 2013, Ese Brume says she’s “super excited.”

But Tobi Amusan described her fourth-place outing as “the worst.”

They both spoke on Sunday after completing their events at the just-concluded World Championships in Doha, Qatar.

Brume settled for bronze with a leap of 6.91m, with Germany’s Malaika Mihambo landing on top of the podium by flying 7.30m. Ukraine’s Maryna Bekh-Romanchuk took the silver with 6.92m, edging Brume by a centimetre.

Brume said, “It means a lot for me. I’m super excited, because I have not been so strong all season. I wasn’t able to perform at bigger competitions. I cannot be happier winning this medal. God has put a big smile on my face.”

She noted that she would now focus on the 2020 Olympics after her impressive performance at the Doha Championships.

“My performance in Doha has improved my confidence and I know that I will do well at the Olympics,” she added.

On her part, Amusan, assured her fans that she would come back stronger, saying she was not satisfied with her fourth position.

Amusan, who is the reigning African and Commonwealth Champion, said, “Fourth place is the worst position you want to be in. Regardless, we have to give thanks to the Almighty; I’ll come back stronger.

“I’m glad to come out here and execute the plan and reaching the final. It’s a life lesson. So, I just look forward to graduating in December.”

With her poor start, she ran 12.49secs to rank behind American Nia Ali who emerged first in 12.34secs; American World record holder Kendra Harrison, second in 12.46secs; and Jamaican Danielle Williams, third in 12.47secs.

With her performance, Amusan became the first Nigerian athlete to qualify for the women’s 100m hurdles final at the World Championships in 20 years.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]