Doha: Nigeria claim golden bronze, US top
Sodiq Oyeleke

Team Nigeria ended up as joint 31st team in the medal standings and 32nd overall in the points table at the 17th International Association of Athletics Federations World Championships that wrapped up on Sunday inside the Khalifa International Stadium in Doha, Qatar.

The team arrived in Nigeria on Monday with a bronze medal won by Ese Brume in the women’s long jump

Nigeria finished 31st with 12 other countries on the medals table, and in a three-way tie for 32nd overall in points with Austria and Grenada.

Other countries at the bottom of the medals table with Nigeria are Burkina Faso, Ivory Coast, Croatia, Ecuador, Spain, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Morocco, Namibia, New Zealand and Switzerland.

The United States dominated the 10-day meet, finishing with 29 medals – 14 gold, 11 silver and four bronze. Kenya was a distant second, winning 11 medals – five gold, two silver and four bronze.

Jamaica was the top Caribbean country and was third with 12 medals – three gold, five silver and four bronze. Host nation Qatar was 16th in the medal standings with two medals – one gold and one bronze.

In the points’ standings, the United States once again led the way, finishing with 310 total points. Kenya was second, finishing with 122 points, and Jamaica was once again the top Caribbean country and finished third overall, with 115 points.

Reacting to Nigeria’s performance, the Athletics Federation of Nigeria in a statement on Monday expressed disappointment with the country’s performance.

The statement read, “Team Nigeria’s home-based athletes and coaches arrived in Lagos today (Monday). We appreciate your unrelenting support though the result didn’t go the way we wanted. The work hasn’t ended; rather it’s just begun as we continue to press on progressively into next season.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]