Osimhen, Dennis, Simon fire Brazil warning
JOHNNY EDWARD AND KELVIN EKERETE

ENGLAND

Wilfred Ndidi, Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City)

Wilfred Ndidi played for 90 minutes as James Milner’s late penalty handed Liverpool the maximum points at the Anfield stadium on Saturday in an English Premier League fixture. Ndidi was cautioned in the 30th minute of the encounter. The Nigeria international has scored two goals in his last seven appearances in the EPL for the Foxes. His compatriot was not listed in the matchday squad.

Alex Iwobi (Everton)

Alex Iwobi made his sixth EPL appearance for Everton, who suffered their fourth league defeat in a row away to Burnley at Turf Moor on Saturday. Iwobi was on for the entire duration of the game and was unlucky not to have scored in the first half.

Leon Balogun (Brighton)

Leon Balogun was an unused substitute in Brighton’s 3-0 shock win over Tottenham Hotspur at the Amex stadium on Saturday. Balogun is yet to feature for the Seagulls this season in the EPL.

Semi Ajayi (West Brom)

Semi Ajayi helped West Brom return to winning ways in the Championship on Saturday as the Baggies beat Cardiff 4-2. The win sees the Baggies return to the top of the table. Ajayi was on for the entire duration of the game.

Oghenekaro Etebo (Stoke City)

Super Eagles midfielder, Oghenekaro Etebo, had his best performance of the season for Stoke City as the Potters came from a goal down to beat Swansea 2-1 at the Liberty Stadium on Saturday. The win was their first of the season. Etebo was on for the entire duration of the game.Etebo has eight appearances for the Potters this season.

READ ALSO: Abraham on target again as Chelsea beat Southampton

FRANCE

Moses Simon (Nantes)

Super Eagles forward, Moses Simon, scored the only goal of the match as Nantes left it late to beat Nice in the French League 1 on Saturday. Moses scored the only goal of the game in the 86th minute of the encounter, his second of the season in the colours of the Nantes and was taken off for Samuel Moutoussamy in the 90th minute.

Samuel Kalu (Bordeaux)

Nigeria international, Samuel Kalu, missed Bordeaux’s 3-1 win away to Toulouse in the Ligue 1 on Saturday.

Kalu has made eight appearances for the club this season scoring once and providing an assist while his compatriot, Josh Maja, was an unused substitute in the game.

Victor Osimhen (Lille)

Victor Osimhen scored his seventh Ligue 1 goal of the season for Lille who played out a 2-2 draw at home to Nimes on Sunday. The striker scored 11 minutes from time to salvage a point for Lille.

Henry Onyekuru (Monaco)

Super Eagles forward, Henry Onyekuru, was not listed for Monaco in their 3-1 loss to Montpellier. Onyekuru has one assist in four appearances to his name since he joined Monaco from Everton in the summer.

BELGIUM

David Okereke, Emmanuel Dennis (Club Brugge)

Nigeria striker, Emmanuel Dennis, scored his third league goal of the season in his sixth appearance for Club Brugge, who trounced Genk 4-0 on Sunday. Dennis made way for David Okereke in the 69th minute and was cautioned 10 minutes later. Okereke, who has scored four goals this term, is on a 10 game goal drought.

Paul Onuachu, Stephen Odey (Genk)

Paul Onuachu scored a brace for Genk, who came from a goal down to beat Royal Excel Mouscron 2-1 in a Belgian Jupiler league game on Sunday.

Onuachu scored in the 75th minute to draw Genk level before securing maximum points in the 90th minute to take his tally to four in four games. His compatriot, Stephen Odey came on for Theo Bongonda in additional time of the win for his third league appearance.

SPAIN

Chidozie Awaziem, Kenneth Omeruo (Leganes)

Super Eagles defender, Chidozie Awaziem, was involved for the entire duration of the game as Leganes woes in the season continued, losing 2-1 at home to Levante in the Spanish La Liga on Saturday.

Awaziem, who joined the club from Porto during the summer, has been involved in five games for the club as they sit bottom of the league. His compatriot, Kenneth Omeruo, was not listed for the game as he continues to recover from an injury

Ramon Azeez (Granada)

Nigeria midfielder, Ramon Azeez, featured for 51 minutes in Granada’s 4-2 loss to Real Madrid at the Santiago Bernabeu stadium on Saturday. Ramon made way for Alvaro Vadillo in what was his sixth appearance this season. He has two goals to his name.

Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal)

Super Eagles forward, Samuel Chukwueze, was on for the entire duration of the game as Villarreal lost 2-1 at Osasuna. The player had an injury scare in the game but went on to finish the game, his seventh of the season.

Chukwueze has scored two goals in all appearances and has also contributed two assists.

GERMANY

Jamilu Collins (Paderborn),

Taiwo Awoniyi (Mainz 05)

Jamilu Collins featured for 90 minutes as SC Paderborn suffered a 2-1 defeat to Mainz 05 in the German Bundesliga on Saturday. Collins missed a penalty that could have earned Paderborn a point in the encounter.The defender has featured in all of his side’s game this season. However his compatriot, Taiwo Awoniyi, was an unused substitute for Mainz.

Anthony Ujah (Union Berlin)

Nigeria striker, Anthony Ujah, came on for Christian Gentner in the 77th minute of Union Berlin’s 1-1 draw away at Wolfsburg.

Holland

Chidera Ejuke (Heerenveen)

Chidera Ejuke fired blanks in his ninth Eredivisie appearances for SC Heerenveen, who defeated PEC Zwolle 1-0. Ejuke, 21, has scored four times this season in the Eredivisie for Heerenveen who are now eight in the table with 13 points from nine matches.

ITALY

William Troost-Ekong (Udinese)

William Troost-Ekong made his fifth Serie A start for Udinese in their 1-0 loss to Fiorentina in a Serie A game on Sunday.

Simeon Nwankwo (Crotone)

Nigeria striker Simeon Nwankwo scored twice for Crotone, who beat Vitrus Entella 3-1 on Saturday in an Italian Serie B clash. Nwankwo scored the game’s opener in the 27th minute before com pleting his brace nine minutes later in the 38th minute.

Nwankwo made way for Maxi Lopez in the 71st minute. The lanky striker has scored four Serie B goals in seven appearances this season and five goals in eight competitive games this season.

RUSSIA

Sylvester Igbonu (Dynamo Moscow)

Sylvester Igbonu fired blanks in Dynamo Moscow’s 2-0 loss to Orenburg in the Russian Premier League on Saturday. Igbonu, who is on loan from UFA, was on for the entire duration of the game as the Moscow-based team suffered their sixth loss of the season. They are currently second to the last team on the league table with just two wins in 12 league games. Igbonu has featured 10 times for the club with four goals to his name.

TURKEY

Paul Mukairu (Antalyaspor)

Paul Mukairu was on for 44 minutes in Antalyaspor’s 1-0 win over Fernabahce on Friday in the Turkish Super Lig. Paul was introduced into the game in the 26th minute for Gelson Dala. The enterprising winger has scored once in seven appearances for the club this term.

Shehu Abdullahi (Bursaspor)

Shehu Abdullahi played all 90 minutes in Bursaspor 2-1 loss at Altay on Friday in the Turkish second-tier league. The Nigeria international featured for the entire duration of the game. Shehu has scored once in six appearances for the Turkish outfit who currently sit fifth on the log as efforts continue to get the club back in the top-flight.

Stephen Eze (Locomotiv Plovdiv)

Nigeria defender, Stephen Eze, scored a brace in Locomotiv Plovdiv’s 5-0 away win against Etar in the Bulgarian top league.The brace took Eze’s tally to three in eight league appearances for the club this season.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]