Olympic qualifier: South Africa, Ivory Coast threaten Nigeria
Sodiq Oyeleke

Head Coach of South Africa, David Notoane, and his Ivory Coast counterpart, Soualiho Haidara, have threatened to give Nigeria a tough time in their bid to secure a ticket to the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games.

South Africa, Ivory Coast and Zambia are drawn in Group B of the Total U-23 Africa Cup of Nations with Nigeria.

The competition acts as a qualifier for the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 as the top three teams will represent Africa.

While reacting to the draw, Notoane described Nigeria and other teams in the groups as tough but said his country would qualify.

He added, “I am happy with the draw; eight good teams, eight very tough teams. It doesn’t really matter which group you are in because it was always going to be good groups.

“Our group, I call it the group of derbies; the other group maybe the group of death with hosts Egypt and three West African countries.

“I am happy the first game will be against Zambia our neighbours, a team that we know very well. Then the last game we play Nigeria, current champions. I couldn’t ask for anything better.”

On his part, Haidara said, “It looks like an easy draw but it’s not. Over 40 teams participated in the qualifiers, and now we have only eight for the final tournament. It means that these teams deserve to be here. We cannot underestimate any team.

“There are some teams developing and doing great efforts every day and are improving to reach the top level. We shouldn’t be surprised by the performance of such teams. Overall, we are very excited to be part of this important tournament.”

Reacting on behalf of Nigeria, Director of Communications, Nigeria Football Federation, Ademola Olajire, said, “Nigeria is in a tough group. We will approach each game as though it is a final.”

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]