Isah laments state of amputee football team
Ebenezer Bajela

President of the Nigeria Amputee Football Federation, Suleiman Isah, has lamented the sorry state of the players currently in Angola for the 2019 Africa Amputee Football Cup of Nations, promising that the team will strive hard to ensure they bring glory to the country despite their poor conditions.

The Special Eagles, as the national amputee football team are known, defeated Cameroon 2-1 on Saturday in their second game, after previously beating Liberia by 1-0 to claim maximum six points from two games.

Isah opened up on the condition of the players and how funds have prevented them from going to the tournament with their complete team.

“It is tough for us, but we are doing everything possible to keep the boys in high spirits,” he said.

“The games are daily and that makes recovery very difficult. The fact that we didn’t come with our complete team because of low funds makes it all tougher for the boys. We have only two substitute players and one substitute keeper.

“Everybody has to be strong to cope with the physical demands of playing every day. It is for that reason that we have asked them to surrender their phones, so they won’t be distracted and drained by social media engagements. We are also picking and supervising their feeding. There is also strict discipline on bed times to ensure they rest well and recover for each day.

“It’s tough for the boys, there is no provision in any form of allowances here, and no certainty yet for our return, but we are trying our best to keep the boys in positive mood as we are already here and we must face the task at hand and worry later.

“Hopefully, our President and sports minister will consider providing some relief for us.”

Nigeria will file out against Tanzania on Sunday (today) for their third game, before taking on Sierra Leone on Monday and hosts Angola on Tuesday.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]